ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58588	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present in short lines the proposal of the most significant amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. The constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments to the Health Protection Act is contained in the provisions of Article 97(1), point 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia according to which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a system in the field of health care, and amending the Health Insurance Act to the provisions of Article 68(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under which health insurance is governed by the law and by Article 97 point 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides a system in the field of social security and health. In the previous period, we pointed out on several occasions that radical changes in system laws... which regulates the functioning of the health system will not be, given that we are entering the pre-election year and that the remaining time until the end of this government's term is extremely short, in order to implement in a generally acceptable way the necessary amendments to the laws on necessary health reform. [[President: I ask the MPs to be quiet, we hear no minister.]] However, given that a period of nearly a year to the election and formation of a new government is ahead of us, according to the ruling people of the ruling coalition, but also a number of opposition leaders, some major failures, the common known problems in the functioning of the healthcare service require us to amend these two laws by emergency procedure, as the delaying of their solution would further burden the functioning of the health system. I am particularly emphasising the fact that the adoption of the proposed amendments to the fall law would lead to major problems in the projection of the 2012 budget, given that the draft budget for the coming year is already under way. Given the fact that reform is the process of a static state, the adoption of these laws is part of a continuous reform of the health system. In the process of amending these two laws, we have incorporated and agreed possible proposed solutions by the Republic Health Insurance Institute, medical, pharmaceutical, sister and other chambers of Serbia, the Association of Patients, the Committee on Health of the Serbian Parliament, some of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The European Commission in Belgrade had only one objection to the proposed amendments to the law, and in a conversation with Ambassador Dežero, we explained why we were forced to bring these amendments by emergency procedure. Please, after what I've said, let me tell you that the text has come out today in "Evening News" – The second half of someone's complaint, since the Republic Health Insurance Institute is already asking for a change to the recently adopted Health Insurance Act, which is not true, since the Republic Fund has given full consent to all amendments and additions to these laws, since in the morning we held a conversation with the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, its associates and they denied that they had said anything about this law, in this way as published in "The Evening News" and that is what I would like to point out to you in particular. The proposed changes improve the position of patients, especially sensitive groups, allow for more efficient functioning of the health system and aligns these two laws with the laws that have been passed in the meantime. The most significant changes and additions to the Health Protection Act are the following – setting up a screening program administration, within this area one of the basic targets is the reduction of disease and premature death from malignant diseases, since malignancies, especially heart disease and blood vessels, are the most common cause of the disease and death of people, both in the world and in the Republic of Serbia. What's very important, I have to tell you that we are one of the countries that has an increased number of deaths compared to the number of people and that this is something that should have favourable effects in reducing the death of malignant diseases. This is why the recommendations of the World Health Organization are provided for the National Programme for the Prevention of Breast Cancer, for the Prevention of Breast Cancer and for the Prevention of colorectal carcinoma. This bill sets out provisions relating to the professional training of healthcare professionals and health associates in the field of specialisation. The legal basis for certain deficit groups of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies of healthcare professionals, i.e. healthcare associates, can be referred to specialised training after a completed traineeship and a professional examination, i.e. for certain deficit groups of specialities, education must not be a condition of two years of working training under a professional examination. The legal basis is that the health minister for each calendar year makes a decision in the fields of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies, which are the deficit branches in the Republic of Serbia, by 31 December of the current year at the latest, and according to the previous opinion of the Public Health Institute established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, a legal basis is provided for the issue, renewal, or withdrawal of medical associate licenses, such as psychologists, educators, social workers and others. At the same time, provisions concerning the process of confiscation of accreditation certificates have been introduced. It is prescribed that the Agency for the Accreditation of Health Institutions of Serbia may, under official duty, withdraw a certificate of accreditation provided that the health institution no longer meets the established standards for a particular area of health care, i.e. a branch of medicine or dentistry or pharmaceutical activities on the basis of which a certificate has been issued to that health institution. Ensuring the right to the privacy of children over 15 years of age is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this provision is in line with the principles of the Universal Declaration and Bioethics and Human Rights of UNESCO, the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine and the European Charter on Patients' Rights, as well as the principles on the rights of patients of the World Health Organization. In particular, the right of a patient to respect the patient’s time in achieving health care in health institutions, to schedule examinations, diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures to maintain and improve health conditions has been established. In particular, the provisions relating to the rights of patients under medical examination are specified, in such a way that medical examination cannot be done over minors, unless it is of direct benefit to the health of a minor, with the written consent of his legal guardian, and all based on the above mentioned documents. It is proposed that, besides other institutions, other jobs that are of general interest, funding through the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be extended to activities covering the Institute of Labour Medicine, Dr Dragomir Karajovic, which concerns monitoring and study of working conditions, organisation and implementation of the information system, collected data and monitoring of the epidemiological situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the areas of professional diseases, diseases related to work and work-related injuries, as well as a proposal for measures to prevent and reduce them, i.e. improving the organisation of the work of health institutions in the field of health protection at work. The draft law amending the Law provides for the legal basis for internal financial control operations in healthcare institutions, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system, to comply with these provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System which is fully and comprehensively governed by the internal financial control in the public sector. Also, these changes contribute to harmonisation of health care regulations. There are five, six here, I would not quote them, since you have them in the light of the law, and it was necessary to comply with the Health Protection Act with the regulations that were passed from the end of 2005 to today, and above all with the provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means and the Budgets Act. The most significant changes and additions to the Health Insurance Act are – certain health insurance rights have been extended. This primarily refers to the extension of the right to dental health care, alongside other persons who have been given the right to students up to 26 years of age. In this way, the population of students is provided with dental health care, then persons who have suffered loss of individual physical or psychophysical functions during their lives, which are unable to carry out daily activities on their own, as well as persons who, due to lack of their own income from compulsory health insurance, are able to make contributions to the republican budget. I would especially point out, and are also the biggest dilemmas and the biggest debates about the right to change gender for medical reasons. I have to give this particular explanation, first of all because of the four leading domestic public information funds, three of them brought it to the front page. I just want to, there were a lot of comments on these texts, to get close to having faces in our society, so on. Hermaphrodites, which have sexual qualities both male and female. While these people are small, as children, it's something you might not notice, but when hormones start working, so to speak, and when those kids get in a position when they're 18 years old, it's one big problem for them, how to solve it. I'd like to see some people, who refer to it as a mockery, to act like they have such people in their immediate surroundings and to make those who comment on it in an unacceptable way to react that it's their child, that it's their sister or someone else or someone else. So I'm exempt from people who can't understand it, but if you can see that medical indications for gender changes, if it's determined by a multidisciplinary team of experts, then some inappropriate reactions might in this way be slightly introduced into real life flows. The circle of persons provided with compulsory health insurance rights has been expanded. These include persons exposed to an increased risk of disease, or persons whose health care is required in relation to prevention, prevention and early detection and treatment of diseases of greater social significance, and are also foreseen to treat victims of domestic violence as victims of trafficking, or of rare diseases. We have specifically predicted that the budget of the Republic of Serbia since 2012 provides funds for the treatment of patients with rare diseases based on annual programmes for their treatment. As you know, these people are now being treated on the basis of a humanitarian aid programme, however, at an annual level of about 5m euros, but the Republic of Serbia must gradually accept the obligation to treat, given that these donors who finance this fund also require it. Conditions have also been created for the introduction of an electronic health card that will be in line with the cards used in EU countries, as well as insurance documents containing the space for the contact microcontroller chip and the space for the machine-readable area for the use of automatic data-reading. The amount of funds needed for this purpose, and I have to tell you that all these proposals were in the Ministry of Finance, for one card is 370 dinars, which is much less than the cost of issuing a ID card. I think it is time of three years for this card to be introduced, given that by 2015 we will have an information link between all health institutions on Serbia's territory. On both primary and secondary and tertiary levels, we will have both electronic cardboard and electronic prescription and everything that implies faster and more efficient functioning of the health system. It is proposed that the health card be further assured in 2011 provided that the payer of the contribution has started and continued to reconcile the contribution to compulsory health insurance. We have also foreseen a change in the name of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as well as in the provincial institution, to bring the Health Insurance Act in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I must stress that the implementation of these laws does not require the provision of additional resources in the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget, and the funds for the implementation of these laws for 2012, further, will be planned in line with the balance options of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the framework of the financial plan of the compulsory health insurance organisation. I hope you will support these laws first of all because of patients, people who work in the health care system and in general state interest. We cannot allow at least two more years of this and the proposed amendments to the law to wait for the adoption of a new and reformed and comprehensive Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act, since the time observed would result in inconceivable consequences for health and the population and functioning of the affected health system anyway. Who's going to answer, for example, for example, that in Jagodina of neurologists for the next five years, four of them are going to retire and no replacements are scheduled. Not to mention the lack of anesthesiologists, radiologists, pathologists and other specialists that are not on the market, but there are no doctors who specialize in these deficit branches of medicine. We'll have surgeons, equipped operating rooms, but they won't be able to operate without an anesthesiologist. If we do not improve dental protection, in the right sense of that word, we will get Sojic's cress to Serbia not only among the poor and older population, but also among students and future academic citizens who are Serbia's future and not to count anymore. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as a resolution minister, I can tell you that there are a lot of problems in the health system, that a large part of the people who work in health care, unfortunately, and a good part of our citizens for their work does not receive compensation that would allow a decent life. Most of them are making great efforts to respond to their functional obligations in these poor times and to help the sick and the injured. These people are worth fighting for, and with your help, I hope, and provide better material status. There are, unfortunately, like everywhere in the world, others who bring us great damage and who, with the help of the competent state authorities, you and the citizens, will be able to restore the frameworks of the Hippocrates' oaths or get away from the system, while for those who have sinned against the law, there are predictable sanctions that must apply to everyone. My associates, Dr. Elizabeth Paunović, First State Secretary, Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Health Insurance and Dr. Dubravka Saranovic, who will later join us, Assistant Health Care and I will be paying attention to your presentation, and at the end of the debate, I will answer the questions asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58589	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the representatives of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Family, Mr Ratkovic and Vukovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) I would remind you that MP Milan Knezevic will be a representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. The word came first from Mr. Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58590	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Professors. Stankovic, the respected presidency, the constitutional basis for the addition of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is found in Article 97 paragraph 1 point 10) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS Group of MPs with special interest and responsibility analysed these two proposals on health care and on health insurance, as the existing system solutions only complement quality, as the Roman Charter obliges us on patients' rights. The very dominant influence on the PUPS parliamentary group stems from the fact that it finds its legitimate responsibility for PUPS in a huge group of citizens, children, youth of both sexes, students, citizens, pensioners, as well as unemployed and disabled persons, disabled and other categories. Mr. Minister, in these social groups, first of all, all the elements affecting the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia are felt. We are also aware that as members of the PUPS parliamentary group, which is a coalition in power, we are responsible for accepting the proposal of these two laws and their purpose and application. You have shown a high degree of humanity by proposing these two laws under which all citizens have the right to preserve both their health and the health of the nation. There's been a humanization of the rights and regulations of WHO. The PUPS with great responsibility finds that our citizens, primarily children and youth, and other social groups must have full awareness of their rights when it comes to the health of the nation. Madam Chairman, allow me to conclude that we are a socially responsible state that makes these great efforts to supplement these draft laws. Unlike the existing laws, what do these two proposals offer us? First of all, health care. Citizens are given the country's legal order to give them the right to health care, the Constitution and these laws guarantee fully, and we as a PUPS parliamentary group are a parliamentary group that guarantees, firstly, the social and health rights of all citizens and is fighting for them. A step between highly placed requirements in both proposals for this law requires financial resources to be planned in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. These changes will start from 1 January 2012. PUPS MPs are aware of the facts and economic opportunities of society as a whole, which requires the speedy adoption of these draft laws. The PUPS parliamentary group is considered and will advocate everything that is written in the Constitution and the Health Protection Act and as regards vulnerable vulnerable groups, persons with special needs, persons with rare diseases, unemployed and displaced persons, and their right to use health care, we will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws. We must note that every child born is a world to itself and has its character as well as personality. Unfortunately, not all children were fortunate to see the world healthy, to grow up with happy parents smiling and to stand in front of their awake eyes. Let them arrive at homes without parental care, for they cannot take care of them or anyone can take care of them. There are children with developmental disorders, who are with their parents and go to the living room, which facilitates the everyday life of their parents, especially if they are employed. All these kids at Belgrade's dental school at the Children's Prevention Dentology Clinic are getting all the dental services. Your help through the bill deserves great recognition because you realize that this many groups of children cannot and should not be marginalized. They have the right to live and heal, to be surrounded by attention and love as well as care as any other child. The PUPS parliamentary group is pleased that you have provided dental and other health care for school and student youth under 26 years of age. This Decision further strengthens society's obligations. Also, this decision will increase the current denial of healthcare and other children up to 18 years of age who have failed to provide health insurance on other grounds. The decision will not burden the Republic of Serbia's budget financially. You have proposed, Mr. Minister, and the right to the privacy of medical records. You have taxed all possible variations, use and abuse and use of the same. You made it possible for their parents to approve and become familiar with the state of health of their children. This member is important for the protection of adolescents in the domain of mental health, but marks the role of health workers and health care systems on the social justice of our society and states in general. Finally, not by any means, in Article 11(3), persons aged up to 65 years of life and above, have secured health care. So, both military pensioners and persons of employment, and farmers. I would point out that next to them, the right to dental services will have all the people the state pays for insurance. So, all the unemployed, refugees, displaced, people who have suffered injuries or loss of physical and psychophysical functions during their lives, because they can't perform everyday life functions alone. The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr Minister, for these reasons be assured that the PUPS parliamentary group will vote on these two proposals that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58591	Thank you. I give my word to MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58592	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, dear associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present our suggestions on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act as regards the part concerning agricultural producers. We've already held talks with representatives of the Ministry of Health on these changes. This week, twice, and unfortunately, we haven't reached the end of the deal yet. You know well that for us ambassadors coming from the Duke, agriculture is extremely important, because 50% of our citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is somehow connected to this branch of economy. I hope we agree that agriculture isn't in the best shape right now. We could see two months ago that dissatisfied agricultural producers blocked the entire Vojvodina in a few hours. Unfortunately, this government does not care about agricultural producers. Sometimes only some villages in Serbia visit, sometimes some drive some agricultural machines for five to ten minutes, and then nothing happens and incentives for agricultural producers simply shrink. There's always something to be asked of agricultural producers. They are asked to produce, and eventually the state offers them less and less. Unfortunately, this government is not a priority at the moment. It is only this branch of the economy that we praise when we need to announce the election results, i.e. the revenues the country receives from agriculture. Of course, Mr. Minister, because of the current situation, it's not your fault, as well as the Ministry of Health, but we still feel that by passing some laws concerning agricultural producers, we should take care of them. We believe that agriculture and agricultural producers should have a specific state. They feed the whole country and are constantly at risk because their survival depends on weather, or weather. We could see two weeks ago what happened in some parts of Serbia when it came to weather trouble. I think if we really want to improve agriculture, if the state really wants to be more agricultural producers, then we have to make such laws that help our farmers, which give incentives to our farmers. It's not just enough that through the law, as I said, from agriculture to advance this branch of economy, we have to be careful over some other laws that don't apply to farmers. For example, through the Law on PIO and the Health Insurance Act, to make sure that it is useful for our agricultural producers. We are currently having problems with the Law on PIO, i.e. with the application of the Law on PIO, with this section regarding our agricultural producers. Why do I say all that? Unfortunately, this Health Insurance Act wants to transfer solutions from agricultural producers under the Law on PIO agricultural producers. What exactly is the problem with these solutions? That's what I want to talk about a little bit more. The proposal for a law in Article 3 shall state who the insurance companies are. I will quote these members of the law, i.e. paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. Agricultural households, family agricultural holdings, i.e. mixed households within the meaning of this law are considered to be a community of life, innovation and spending of income regardless of the kinship between him and the members of the agricultural household, i.e. a land with at least 0.5 ha of agricultural land, i.e. less than 0,5 hectares of agricultural land, other land or building land on which livestock-vegetable and wine-growing production, fish farming, growing mushrooms, snails, bees and other breeding is carried out. What does that mean? This means that, according to this member, everyone who is family members and who lives on a 0.5 ha agricultural land, they are all obliged to pay for health insurance. They're all members of that person who live at 0.5 ha, which is extremely small. The holder of a farm home, or family agricultural land within the meaning of this law, is the person who is an asset tax on agricultural land and income tax on agriculture and forestry in accordance with the law governing the tax on property and income tax on citizens. This means that there is a possibility that there could be more farmers, because there are more of them that are property taxpayers based on agricultural land. We find that a very bad solution. Furthermore, a member of the agricultural household, family agricultural land, or mixed household within the meaning of this law, is a person who lives and works in the agricultural household, family agricultural land, or in a mixed household. It's a problem for us, it's the members who live and work. So, not only those who work in the agricultural land, but all those who live in that family. These provisions of the law pass to the Health Insurance Act of the PIO Act. I have a few questions about these solutions. I'm interested in what makes it possible to find out who lives and works on agricultural land? And what if someone's just registered at that address, not living there, but what about those who live there, but they don't do agriculture. Why would I ask that? Because the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act in Article 132 states and I only quote the part relating to agricultural producers – registrations of data for home records shall be submitted to the Fund, the authority responsible for public income operations, reporting data for insurance bases that serve to determine the annual coefficient and the amount of the contribution paid to self-employed workers and insurance undertakings as a declaration of the change of that data. What is not a good solution for us, what is still in place in this Member of the law that the fund, under official duty, consists of an application for insurance, a declaration of the change in insurance data for farmers on the basis of data from public documents and the records of the authority responsible for the management of the repositories of the authority responsible for determining the income tax from agricultural activity, the authority responsible for the management of the register of agricultural holdings and the municipal body of the administration. What's going on here in practice? So, the current tax administration, and based on this law, each member of the agricultural household has or does not have a country in his name and unemployed, forced to pay pension-inhabited insurance. So, per person it's 42.800 and some dinars. So, what can happen? In fact, it has already happened that those who rent their agricultural land were forced to pay PIO. So, I'm afraid the same thing is going to happen with this law because the tax administration won't ask anyone just to ask members of the agricultural household to pay 17,000 dinars per person for protection. So I'm interested in who's in charge of saying who are the members of which agricultural land, who are those who work in the agricultural land? So, is the tax administration going to do it again or the fund? Let me tell you one example, so one family with four members has to pay per person for PIO 42,800 dinars that's about 170,000 in total, they only have 0.5 hectares of land, even if we add that everyone has to, because they're dealing with agriculture, each will have to pay 17,000 dinars in total for one family of 240,000 dinars. I believe that this impossible mission is, and we want it not to come to this, that the tax administration is sending a payment to farmers and they are forced to travel and say that they simply do not deal with agriculture, to make certain statements, simply to justify that they are not engaged in agriculture. There is a concern that we are now going to transpose these same solutions into the Health Insurance Act, so I'm interested in how it will be done, who will determine who is dealing with agriculture and who should pay for health insurance? What's worse is no one's going to ask farmers at all. What about those who act like housewives? What if someone studied medicine, graduated medical school, didn't find a job yet, lives in that family, has little agricultural land in his name because he inherited it, hasn't sold it yet, does he have to pay for health insurance or not? So maybe it's going to be that now all those who don't do agriculture, sell their agricultural land. We believe that as soon as possible the Law on PIO needs to be amended and that the regulation and regulation on who is considered a farmer. So, as far as the PIO Regulation is concerned, and to this day it has not been passed, we discussed it on the Committee on Agriculture and two or three months ago we were told that a sublaw on the Law on PIO would still be passed. We heard from you, that you intend to bring sublaws and there to see who should pay for health insurance, but yet we think it's extremely important to be in law, future criteria in law, and that we already know in the law who needs to pay for health insurance, and who doesn't? What is the problem with the sublegal acts that we MPs simply cannot see, only the members of the government see it and we cannot influence these sublaws. What is also important is that we held talks with the Minister of Agriculture on the subject and he said that we should change the Law on PIO, that this is not the best solution, as far as agricultural producers are concerned, means those parts relating to agricultural producers and unfortunately nothing happened, and here we now agree one law that needs to be changed with some other law. Because of all this, we have also submitted an amendment through which we want to clarify the situation, so let me also say something about the content of our amendment. So, in Article 17, point 27., we want to change and it says, "Employees over 18 years of life who are engaged in agricultural activity, as farmers of a agricultural household or family agricultural land, if they are not insurance workers, self-employed insurance companies, insurance companies listed in point 17. of this attitude, pensioners, persons in education." Article 3 is amended as follows: "Agricultural households or family agricultural holdings shall be regarded as a community of life-forming and income spending, regardless of the costs between their members in the agricultural household or on land with at least 0.5 hectares of agricultural land per household member, i.e. with a minimum of 0,2 hectares of agricultural land, other land or building land per household member, i.e. the land on which livestock, vegetable or vineyard production, fish farming, mushrooms, snails, bees or long growing is carried out. What's also important, after item 4 and 5. which is now in the draft law, we propose to add another Article 6 which reads: "if several members of the agricultural household or family agricultural land-based property tax or income tax is in accordance with the law governing property tax and income tax for farmers, or family agricultural land ownership within the meaning of this law is the person who owns the owner of the right of use, the tenant or the farmer using the land of the largest area". Why did we turn in such an amendment? Because today is unacceptable that everyone will have to pay for health insurance. The practice so far is different, until now there was only one member, so the farmer of the agricultural land to pay for health insurance and the rest of them were all provided on this basis. That's the practice of other employees, if there's an unemployed person in the family, they get health care based on it. What's another problem for us, by passing this law, every kid who's 15 years old and not in school, is unemployed, he'll just have to pay for health insurance. So far, the practice has been that since he was 18, we feel that this solution should remain. The third problem is what is considered agricultural land. I mean, I think so, and I said, for example. The four-member family with 0.5 hectares can work and survive the production year even though everyone has to pay PIO and health insurance, then they'll be in big trouble and now we've tried to increase this figure by amendment, so every member has to be, there must be 0.5 hectares. The decision provided for by the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, we believe that they do not carry hand-to-hand on the interests of agricultural producers, and therefore we cannot support those solutions which, according to our assessment, do not take care of our farmers. Since agriculture is the strategic branch of our economy, we should in particular improve the position of agricultural producers and not only by agricultural laws but by some other regulations, sublegal acts that can to some extent affect the conditions of their submission. We wanted the amendment to be precise, to define who is considered an insurance policy, and we believe that our amendment is in line with the government's declared social and health policy. We also heard that though, you might accept our amendment with some changes. We're at your disposal. We're here today and Monday and we're asking you, if you and your amendments are to accept this amendment and we're asking you to come to a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58593	Thank you. The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58594	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, normally, if there is a certain good solution to the LDP's bill, it must support it. No doubt there are good solutions in these bill proposals, and that is why we support them. In the Health Insurance Act, we must support the improvement of the exercise of certain health insurance rights, i.e. the extension of certain rights. We must also support the improvement of the system of the chosen doctor, as well as the expansion of the face circle that meets the conditions to acquire the creature of the insured face. In the Health Protection Act, we must support the creation of conditions for further improving patient rights, primarily through improving the rights relating to the health care of children under 18 years of age, respect for patients of this time, protection of persons suffering from rare diseases, improvement of quality and standards in the exercise of health care, harmonisation of health care rules with the principles and principles of the World Health Organization, as well as compliance of the Health Protection Act with other regulations. So these are the reasons why we can say that we have no problem voting for these bill proposals. However, these bill proposals and these good laws are hardly capable of changing a truly desperate and serious health problem, which was primarily created by a comprehensive and universal corruption. Dear Mr. Minister, unfortunately, today when you say health care is often a synonym for corruption, and you have often said these days that corruption is universal and that it is comprehensive and that the Ministry has no capacity to deal with it. You were saying that you were powerless against corruption, that you were powerless to fight a bribe, you were saying that you needed the help of the judiciary, that you needed the help of the police, the Anti-Corruption Agency, that there were no radical health reforms at the end of the term. So these are all findings. However, you forget, that you are not some person standing outside that ministry, but that you are just the Minister of Health. Therefore, since you are a longtime healthcare professional, you know that if you want to fight certain pathology diseases, you have to diagnose what caused this disease, this pathology, and then figure out how it can be treated. So, you have to find medication for it, whether at the beginning or at the end of the term, it's completely irrelevant. The very finding of the problem will not lead to a change in the health system, in Serbia's health, which is burdened with corruption. For example, when it comes to determining what generated it, what is actually the cause of this corruption, I would ask you a question – did you carry out a serious analysis, how much funding from that health budget is allocated for employee earnings? Do you know how many employees he works in health care? Do you know how these employees are rewarded, starting with those health workers who work with medium professional training, those who are specialists or those who have subspecies? Have you thought about and done an analysis of how many non-medical health workers are working? Do you know it's 26%? That means that a quarter of the health care workers are out of the medical profession. Have you run any tests on how ombudsmen work at clinical and hospital centres? Have you spoken to these ombudsmen who have direct contact with patients who have been forced for some reason to address the Ombudsman? Have you spoken to the directors of medical centres, any institution involved in providing health services, how difficulties they face, and how they overcome these difficulties? Have you ever considered making a strategy, so you as the Ministry, independent of the police, of the judiciary, of the Anti-Corruption Agency? How do we prevent corruption? How do we determine this corruption in order where these health services are actually given and how to fight this corruption? From your media performances, from today's exposé, the presentation in the Assembly, I haven't noticed a single sentence with which you say, yes, that corruption exists, yes, we do, and that is, we'll do it and we'll expect the effects within that and that. So I'm undermining again, it doesn't matter if it's at the beginning or at the end of the term. Serbia's health care is in such a mess, it's just impossible for us to wait for all the electoral procedures to pass, all the election circles and wait for some future start of someone's term to start doing something. If we wait until the end of your term, we'll have to wait a few months. In the meantime, we still have serious problems with corruption. You say you can't do it yourself, and I assume you meant the Ministry, as part of the executive government. However, you as a minister can propose laws, you can propose certain acts, which can be passed precisely to this purpose I speak to, therefore, in order to fight corruption. You can work with all your first people in health care institutions on that matter. So, you can and you have powers, any irregularity that comes to you, to study, analyze, you have teams that work with you, you have state secretaries. So you have to have, first of all, the will to have enough time, and you have to make time, because you're actually a minister, to actually give your time, give and sacrifice for that part of the government you're headed to right now. You have to worry about quality, you have to fight to run smooth work in health institutions, and you also have to fight for an adequate reward to all those health workers, who do such a difficult job. You must not allow 108,000 people to be compromised because of a few of them, which, because of bribery and corruption, lead to a poor reputation. If you set out among the citizens, most likely each other will tell you that he once met with this man in his life, personally met with corruption or bribery. If he hadn't met, at least he heard from his immediate surroundings. You, as minister, must fight the abuse of health care, the monopoly, the negative selection that is and how it is expressed in health care. You have to take care of how many doctors sciences are currently working on various health institutions, clinical hospital centres in Serbia, not only in Belgrade but also in the province. Do you know, say, that Zrenjanin had one doctor of science, surgery, one man who was a sub-specialist, and he retired unsatisfactory, compromised, because they simply wouldn't let him work, for that very reason, because in him they recognized the serious competition and the serious danger of his own advancement. Therefore, it must be kept in mind that we have a very good and professional frame and we must make sure that this expert when it is not a victim of abuse, corruption and one’s negligence. You say you lack the support of other institutions in this fight for corruption. I'd say you might turn around and look around, you and some anti-corruption association. See what you can do through those doctors who probably have direct knowledge of the serious violations of the laws on corruption, so maybe they can help you and guide you in which direction you could run this thing from a dead end. Because definitely, the story of corruption, the story of us having to fight corruption, will not yield any results. So, first of all, determining what caused it, what caused it, and what speeds up that corruption, what is still held at that level at which it is in health, how to treat it, what means, who, and how to draw concrete deadlines, which are very important, because these deadlines actually determine someone's responsibility, because it can be analysed whether something was done within that period which is agreed or not, and I guess someone should bear responsibility if it isn't, and not just forget it. I would remind you of a serious affair over these unfortunate swine flu vaccines. We bought a parasated number of those vaccines, and that's over. But now we have to destroy 600,000 of those vaccines. How are we going to destroy them? Apparently, there is some solution to having it in Vienna and destroying a single vaccine costs six euros. That's another three million and 600,000 euros. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? Is there any other way and any other place, and is there any other price to get rid of that medical waste? Are you concerned about whether or not you are considering and consulting on who is elected, appointed as Director of Public Procurement of the Republic Health Insurance Institute? I think it's all part of the health minister's work. Do you, as a minister, think about the need to fight first and foremost against the influence of political parties in the health system, because we are witnessing that this partocrat and how dangerous and devastating for the real life of citizens, and I think that health care is also a part of this reality? Therefore, good solutions, the good proposals in these laws really represent more than one make-up, one quality but not enough that can significantly reform and improve the system of health care, health insurance and the overall functioning of the health system in Serbia. That's not enough. As long as it doesn't go seriously into radical reforms of the health system, and for that, it's always too late. We should have started this much earlier, not just in the future, as you obviously suggest. We support these laws, we agree to improve the position of patients both in terms of health care and in terms of health insurance, but, given that Serbia is in such great trouble as public spending, which we have problems with filling the budget, we will find it difficult to do so, these beautiful desires and beautiful solutions from these draft laws and to realise. But you are as minister, first of all, to do everything in your power to improve the health system in Serbia through your ministry, by hiring all your resources, your ministry, normally, with the support of the entire society and other institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58595	I thank the Vice President. I give my word to MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58596	The Honorable Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Government and esteemed fellow MPs, the Health and Health Insurance Act, whose proposals for changes and additions have been submitted to the National Assembly by the Government to regulate one of the most important areas of our citizens' lives. When I say this, I am starting with the fact that every social system that wants to be functional and prosperous tends to establish standards that will provide assumptions for the health security of all members of that community on equal terms. Without a well-organized health system, most people have no opportunity to cultivate their own health, and that means that society as a functional and organised community of individuals has no chance of being prosperous. In a society where the health system is not well-organised, solidarity is lost and those principles of society that need health care become a balance. It creates conflicts and leads society into disintegration and anarchy. That is why every prosperous society that strives to ensure its own development on democratic institutions and democratic means and to open perspectives of a better life for its citizens seeks to regulate the area of health care and to enable all its members to make legal assumptions for the preservation of their health. In this respect, the proposed legal texts on health care and on health insurance should be understood as the intention of the Government of Serbia to regulate this area normally and to systematise it in accordance with the standards achieved in developed democratic societies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the need to impose more concrete reasons in the existing Health Protection Act on the installation of the amendments and additions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Not going deeper into the wider design of all the more important reasons, it is necessary to point out that they all require improving the rights of patients, primarily the rights of children under the age of 18, through the provision of the right to insight into medical documentation, as well as the provision of the right to the privacy of children over 15 years of age. The amendments and additions to this law also determine the specific rights of patients relating to the respect of their time in the achievement of health care, in health institutions and in private practice. Legal changes improve conditions for improving the health care of persons who are victims of domestic violence, as well as persons who are victims of human trafficking. A particularly important area regulated by the proposed amendments and additions to this legal text concerns the creation of conditions for improving the health care of persons suffering from rare diseases. In this context, the standards relating to improving the preventive health protection of the population in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are particularly important. This activity will be achieved through the monitoring of the screening programme brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important that changes and additions to the existing law will improve the conditions for the organisation and operation of the Institute of Medicine, established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. New solutions create conditions for certain jobs of general interest for healthcare to be planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Amendments and additions to the Law will also improve the performance of screening programs at the level of the Republic, which will be achieved by setting up a screening programme administration, which will act as a management body in the system of the Ministry of Health. The proposed solutions provide normative assumptions for improving the quality of standards in the performance of health care and patient safety. This affirms one of the most important objectives in achieving the right to health care. In addition, it should also be pointed out that the proposed solutions harmonize the health care rules with the principles and principles of the World Health Organisation. This specifically refers to the area of the right of patients. At the same time, amendments to the Health Protection Act will bring the Republic of Serbia in line with a number of international documents and conventions. These international standards are numerous, starting with the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, adopted by UNESCO, to the Declaration and the Human Rights Charter adopted by the Council of Europe and other European institutions, which have become part of universal rights in the field of health care. In other words, by adopting these legal changes and additions, the Republic of Serbia will create normative assumptions for the achievement of human and ethnic rights to health protection for its citizens, who as standards seek in the most developed democratic societies in modern Europe. The honourable MPs, as well as in the case of the previous law, and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted, are growing out of the need to create normative assumptions that so far legal solutions are in line with the standards of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the law, that the organisation structure of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund is adapted to the needs of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to create normative assumptions for the establishment of branches of the Fund outside the district. The aim is to provide better conditions for the exercise of rights in the area of direct health insurance for all insured persons. With this in mind, I would like to point out that the proposed solutions improve certain mandatory health insurance rights, such as the right to dental protection for certain categories of population or the extension of the right to an insurance companion who achieves health care outside the place of residence and similar rights. Here, too, it should be pointed out to the normative solutions that provide for the health care of patients in the event of their gender change for medical reasons, as well as solutions that create conditions for the treatment of patients with rare diseases. When it comes to normative solutions relating to the rights of certain categories of patients in cases where these persons are changing gender for medical reasons, I would like to remind the public that media dust has already risen in our public view of this solution, even though changes and additions to the law have not yet been adopted. Our public is rightly sensitive to the spending of taxpayers' budgets, and the question of changing half of the state's cost in interpretations is being approached in the media with a dose of caution. In fact, there are attempts to place the thesis to try under this legal solution, in order to put a small door in plain language with the funds of Serbian citizens to finance someone's exhibitionism and luxury. It should be underlined that this is not the case and that the proposed legal solution offered by the legislator led exclusively to medical and ethical reasons. In this regard, the gender change in the cost of taxpayers will only be done in cases where medical reasons are imposed, i.e. when such intervention provides a better level of quality of life for patients. I have pointed to this because of the growing thesis in our public that the ruling coalition and this is how it arches people's money and behaves non-domestic. When it comes to legal solutions governing the rights of patients who have suffered from rare diseases, it is envisaged that those categories of the population, which do not have their own income, for example, students and other maintenance persons, are to qualify for the achievement of health care on the burden of compulsory health insurance. These solutions address the adverse effects on the health of the population, which may result from a lack of resources to treat the mentioned categories of population. To remind you, the treatment of rare diseases is very expensive. Because of research into drug production for these types of patients, there are special funds everywhere in the developed world in which countries define means of treating specific types of diseases, of which there are few patients in the world. It is therefore necessary to create conditions to gradually, in accordance with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, be able to finance the treatment of patients suffering from rare diseases from the funds of the Republic's budget, i.e. compulsory health insurance, as well as to treat patients not covered by some of the donor programmes in this way. The proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act also improves the system of the chosen physician, in other words, the law introduces the obligation of the insured person to make the choice of the physician in accordance with the proposed legal solutions. This creates assumptions for improving preventive and other health care measures. This right of compulsory healthcare arising from compulsory health insurance is significantly improved in favour of the insured persons. The proposed legal solutions also extend to persons who are victims of human trafficking, domestic violence, or to persons who suffer from rare diseases, unless they have other basics, under whom they exercise compulsory health insurance rights. For these persons, health insurance rights will be provided through payment of contributions, in accordance with the law, from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law provide for the creation of conditions for the introduction of a health card, as special insurance documents. This way, during the next three years, a system of health cards will be harmonised with the European Union system, enabling our citizens to exercise health insurance rights, both in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the countries of the Union. Also, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the provisions relating to the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance are specified, in particular issues in which the parent subsidiary is exercising its rights, as well as issues of the keeping of the parent records. What is particularly important, the proposed legislative solutions are adapted to the way in which the Republic Fund and healthcare providers are negotiated with the rules on the budgetary system. This will achieve planning and more effective control of completed contracts, as well as planning and control of spent funds. With this in mind, it will allow for coordination with the planned funding in the Republic Fund's financial plan for a certain financial year. Dear fellow Members of the People, proposed amendments and amendments to the Health Insurance Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, in addition to the quality newspapers I have pointed out, have also been carried out to bring these legal texts in line with the rules that have been passed since these laws entered into force. For this reason, we should support the proposal's intention to use the process of routine harmonisation of legal standards to find new and better solutions, which in a more comprehensive and long-term way will regulate the area of health care for all of our citizens. Convinced that these solutions will be accepted by most MPs after the debate in the National Assembly. The Socialist Party of Serbia's MP group – Unity Serbia will, in voting day, support the proposed amendments and additions to health care and health insurance laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58597	Thirteen minutes have been used since the time of the mandated president of the parliamentary group. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58598	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, these two legislative proposals we are considering today represent new amendments and additions to existing laws. Given the fact that a total of 103 members are being changed in these two legislative proposals, some colleagues who have criticised the absence of a public debate have said that these changes are of systemic character. I don't think, unfortunately, these changes represent a system newspaper in terms of how the health care sector works and the health system at all. I think the state of health is actually a quality illustration of the situation in which we as a society are today. I think it's fair to say, and it's hard to expect that the minister who arrived only a few months ago has time, resources and support at his disposal to enter the fundamental changes in the health system. I think the role of a minister who only comes a few months before the election may be an attempt to put an end to a kind of health fire. I have no doubt that you too, Mr. Minister, will agree that the system is necessary on a completely different basis in order to ensure quality health care by respecting the need for strong prevention, but also quality treatment. Also, it should be borne in mind that at the centre of this reform there must be a patient's well-being, but on the other hand there must be no neglect to the position of healthcare professionals. Of course, to have a healthy nation is not enough to engage only the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health, but a serious multi-sector approach is needed. If you want citizens to be healthy today, they must be able to breathe clean air, eat healthy food with controlled origin, have clean drinking water at their disposal and, of course, have a good education on what are healthy lifestyles. Therefore, one regulated state is required to provide in each segment conditions for a healthy life. After all, one of the key values of each society is the attitude towards the sick and the weak, and I think that the system of values in our society can be measured accordingly. Also, I think in the previous years, there was too much experimentation in the health sector, and too little real moves and too little relying on tried-out models. Can these proposals meet citizens' expectations? My esteemed colleague, Dr Milan Dimitrijevic, eight months ago, when we also had amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, pointed out a study that actually illustrated the expectations of citizens when it comes to health care, 88% of respondents believe that in the context of compulsory health insurance citizens can be treated by choice with a private or state doctor. This feeling of citizens is undeniably based on a real experience. Obviously, the current situation is not up to the needs of patients and the general needs of the health system, because what a citizen sees when he sees a doctor is poor infrastructure, waiting lists, corruption of the system itself, etc. I think, unfortunately, the government has neither the capacity nor the idea nor the time available to seriously engage in a health reform project that would entail a complete change in the way the sector operates today. This includes the adoption of a whole new set of laws, including a new health care law and a new health insurance law. The key thing to reform should certainly be the creation of an integrated health care system. This would mean including the good part of the private sector in the state according to the applicable standards. The potential for that is enormous. I will illustrate this by saying that there are over 8500 thousand private doctors', dental offices in Serbia, as well as pharmacies, and that there are about 10,000 healthcare professionals in Serbia. So that's one whole army. Certainly, by including the good part of the private sector, the integration into the state would also increase competence, the quality of the service would increase, and corruption would be reduced, as in fact, an insurance undertaking for an appropriate package of services paid from the fund could choose where it will go. In other words, he'd have a choice to go where his service quality is better and where he'd wait less. Also, so-called. supplemental work as simple for potential corruption, which has been a lot of words, would result in a different meaning, because it is the same amount of money in play, and thus corruption would be reduced. Of course, it is also necessary to pay attention to how to define a basic insurance package. Citizens are also one of the key problems facing health care is corruption. It's not just a health problem, it's a question that pervades society and a kind of malignant disease that eats up our entire system. It is also important to make a debate in general about how transparent money is available in health care, i.e. the funds themselves. In this context, the question arises whether the Ministry of Health is superior to the Fund or whether the situation is completely reversed? How much is it possible to track the currents in the fund itself? Every day we witness an affair in the health care community where huge sums of money are mentioned. It's just enough to name a few of them, so to create a picture of what kind of situation it is. We were almost listening to allegations of disputed over a million and a half euros in the supply of vaccines for swine flu, and then we had the opportunity to listen and read about waiting lists for cancer patients in Sremska Kamenica, because some other patients who paid priority, and there was also great dust around the purchase of 30 ambulances for which the state paid 80 million dinars, a few years later neither the vehicles were delivered nor the money was returned to the state. What's crucial is that these, as well as all other potential affairs, get their epilogue. It is a matter of full engagement and the ministry and the health minister, but unfortunately that is not enough. It is necessary to hire all state authorities to bring things to an end, not the rest of the story, because if this is not done, then the state sends a message that certain forms of behaviour are acceptable and not punishable and then these phenomena will be increasingly. Generally, I think we need more serious control of the money flows in health care. The network of institutions, it is significantly inadequate for any citizen to have quick and smooth access to the health system. Infrastructure is in very poor condition, especially when it comes to hospitals and facilities where patients are being treated. For example, when you look at what the ceiling of the Angel Hall at the Clinical Centre is like for an elite health care facility in Serbia, you can see that the facilities look much poorer in the environments for which much less money is allocated. Considering that 13.5 billion euros have entered Serbia's health in the last decade, citizens are rightfully asking themselves – where is this money and what it is spent in. Also, the question arises why the reconstruction of clinical centres in Serbia has not begun, although the appropriate money exists. Is the problem a question of projects or something else entirely? We recently talked about the fact that local self-government was not largely able to take over the founding rights for primary health care institutions because they were in a difficult material position and because the government unfortunately abolished a large part of the transfer funds that was required under the law to transfer them. Although there is a doctor’s hyperproduction today by the educational system, it is clear that there is a deficit of specialized personnel, as many motivated by better income and better position leave the country. I think it's important that these amendments and the additions to the law account for it. I'm going to illustrate the example of an anesthesiologists that we're definitely deficiting as a health system. You can't perform any more serious surgery without them. Also, one of the problems is that young people find it very difficult to get to work as doctors, and therefore very difficult to come to the possibility of being trained. As a result, the DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing to introduce the possibility of a kind of volunteering, or specialising in its own cost, where young doctors would be able to specialize, of course, in agreement with state capacities and of course not using state resources. The reduction or termination of the waiting list must be one of the priorities. I'm going to list the curiosity I heard the other day on the Health Committee, which is that at the Clinical Center in Kragujevac, a patient for surgery of the prosthetic column is scheduled for 2024. If this wasn't a terrible piece of information, it'd be funny. However, there is no need to blame, not the problem of those who fail to do so, but rather the problem of a system that allows these people to behave in this way. For some things, to make things better, you don't need more money, but better organizational skills and more will. I would also like to ask a question this way for Mr. Minister – how many waiting lists have been reduced for heart surgery, what about their revision, and is there still a public and private sector partnership on this issue? Are patients still being sent to Turkey, and if that is the case, what is the percentage of survival of patients going to surgery there? These legal changes also speak of respect for time and improvement of patients' rights. But I think they have serious shortcomings, because I don't think they define precise deadlines in certain cases. We amendedly intervened as a member of the DSS parliamentary group, so that some deadlines would be specified and that the story of respecting the patient's time would not remain just in the domain of the declarative. Speaking of patients' rights, the DSS parliamentary group is in favour of passing a comprehensive bill on patients' rights. These rights are currently, to take advantage of that expression, scattered by different laws, and if you wanted to synthesize it, it's not a bit of an easy job. We think the new law on patients' rights would effectively regulate this area. The current solution for patients' rights, which are located in health institutions, has its serious shortcomings, because this person, the patient's rights protector, pays the healthcare institution, and this person is about to handle complaints and patients who are complaining about inadequate treatment in a given establishment. As far as dental protection is concerned, I think it is positive that the amendments and additions of the laws speak of the need to respect the right of the student population to treat the diseases of the mouth and teeth for free. We believe that dentistry in the state sector is practically completely extinguished in one non-critical way, except in the segment of child and preventive dentistry and a little urgent dentistry. I think it's hard to expect things to go back to the old ones like this and the law additions, and in the end, it's probably unreal to expect because of the lack of money that we're dealing with as a society in general. However, in the long run, I think that through one integrated model of the health system, as I said earlier, dentistry must find one sustainable and realistic concept and be between these two extreme solutions, no condition as it once was, and no condition as it is today. Due to the difficult material situation and insufficient prevention, citizens opt to go to dentists only when they have urgent and serious problems. Unfortunately, the chamber hasn't been working for a long time, which is why the voice of the profession is weaker when it comes to this area. The DSS Group has also submitted an amendment in this direction, where it points to the need for voluntary blood donors who have given more than 10 times the same treatment as for students, in order to simply send one message to society on the one hand, and on the other hand, those who are voluntary blood donors, of course, must be healthy in order for that giving to be quality. The question of screenings that are defined by these legal changes is very important, because unfortunately, we are leading in Europe for certain malignancies, for example. uterine cancer, which is practically fully treatable if it detects early stages and accesss treatment and I think attention must be paid to that. There is a very important factor in education in this as well as in many other issues in the field of health. It is enough to say the information that we have recently had the opportunity to hear, that the average citizen in Serbia uses 14 boxes of drugs annually and mostly antidepressants. I mean, when it comes to antibiotics, the situation isn't a little more favourable. When this is all seen, it can be concluded that it can seriously compromise people’s health. This requires an increased engagement of doctors and pharmacists themselves, and of course involving citizens in certain education processes. Obviously, these amendments and additions to the law are not enough to address the accumulated problems facing citizens, when it comes to their right to health care. I would like to conclude, quoting the definition of health by the World Health Organization, which reads – Health is a state of total physical, mental and social well-being, not just the absence of disease or fatigue. Are we a healthy nation when this definition is analysed in the context of this self-proclaimed socially responsible government? That's another question for you, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58599	17 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Before I give my word to MP Milan Knezevic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87. I hereby inform the National Assembly’s Rules of Procedure that today’s working day will be completed after the search in the first joint review of amendments and additions to the Health Security Act, health insurance. Today we only do laws that are currently the subject of our debate. Today's break will be set from 13.40 to 15.00 hours, 20 minutes longer in agreement with a team doing direct TV transmissions. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58600	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are reviewing two laws again, one relating to health care, and the other to health insurance. Our party's objection to the SNS was first, repeated by who knows which time, again this urgent law-making process. The law was sent to the Assembly by the government on July 14th and came to the procedure by emergency procedure. When all the members, which I will talk about later, and my colleague, are analysed, it is absolutely evident that there are no drastic emergency interventions in this law, which would require an emergency procedure under that Rules of Procedure and by law. All these changes that were made in the members could go according to the regular procedure, but of course, we as an opposition repeat it in vain, and it is unnecessary for the ruling majority to pass all laws by emergency procedure as well as this. This law, like when we were reviewing the changes eight months ago, is now 51 members, which is a change of members, which is what additional members do, so when we remember a few months ago, the changes that referred to the intervention of the elections in the doctor's chamber, where we've had objections, even the medical chamber because of the problem, so there were members involved in the supplemental work, about 30 and some changes, so in the last eight months we have more than 100 members here. The question arises whether it's in general that these changes are done or done by a new law or done consciously, so in six months, we're going to change and supplement again, and that way we cosmetically adjust some laws, but we have to as a SNS to make a point that this is wrong. The passing of these laws, essentially every law, especially as far as health care is concerned, is for us systemic and strategic, any members to change, especially here what I'm going to talk about, where we now have introductions and centres for rare diseases, the Scanning Authority. We consider the granting of temporary licences, I only say three things, I think this was supposed to be a public hearing, and this law wasn't even on the site. There's politics aside here. These are the professional methodological things that are proposed. You should always hear the opinion of the profession and those people who deal with this problem. The slightest mistake will be made if the profession and adoption of this without a public debate is heard, especially in these parts, I exclude these cosmetic groomings, and these new segments that we bring in were still to be heard by the expert public concerning this issue. The scarcity is not only now, such a remark we have had before-the-date changes, I am talking about the health law, but also other laws and other MPs in the procedure of passing other laws, that this public debate has been left aside, and all under the basis of the EU's consent. There's also a health care bill on what a alignment is, but what the government is proposing here doesn't have much to do with compliance. Here are some professional cosmetics and technical cosmetics of certain members, i.e. the professional methodological introduction of some other and new organisational units that have never existed before. Our remark is that it would be better if an appropriate public debate had been made. The third thing I repeat and we repeat it all the time. Often, both in the past law and in the previous law, I have a problem with that language. I think we should all get in the way. Here I'm bothered by two expressions, and that's this continuous medical education we have a much better expression, we can agree to be a professional medical training or a continuous professional medical training and other expressions and certifications about which one knows which way we're discussing. I'm stressing this all the time, and we need to keep stressing it, that's the thing with the government. It's got to be the health care law, the rights. We must respect our language, our country and give appropriate expressions accordingly. If we get those foreign expressions in the legal procedure, they're slowly getting dissipated. It bothers me very much that the term "continuous medical education" was accepted by medical schools. The KME's acronym is being held. I think the introduction of the law through the medical chambers and through this term has become a distasteful term, not ours, is a foreign expression, and thus the government's role in lawmaking is crucial to the use of the Serbian term, because after that it creates an inert. Now, enter the website of all medical schools – stands KME and KME's plan. It's a funny shortcut and it's not in agreement with our language. I repeat and repeat because I have debated in my own time and on our councils about the name of public health, not to spread the story. So in segment, these two terms need to be changed and that's an observation of the third. The next general remark, when members are analysed, there are a lot of cosmetic groomings here. It would take me a long time to analyze every member to prove that they have cosmetics. I would illustrate, for example, Article 2, earlier, Article 18, where point 19 is crossed, and the essence is that the means to build and equip health institutions in state property, the founder of which is the Republic and all is stated. You're reading it crossed, so here you see, that's some two, three sentences you add. I'd like to illustrate another one, and there's about 30 of them. I've listed members who are really cosmetics. You have the opinion that the Health Technology Assessment Commission can give an assessment. That's Article 9, and earlier, 68. It is the same cosmetic change, not to say that this cosmetics is not good – if it brings, Article 11, you can not say "can" but "must" or "necessary". So that added attitude isn't good either. On the other hand, as a party we respect, it's okay, we need laws because we're making remarks, technically they're not well done, we need to dress them up, and we agree, but then we say that we don't need to go through an emergency procedure, so it's said in an explanation -- you know what, out of 52 members, 11 members, we're changing them so that, for various reasons, we see technical and linguistic and we don't go in, we don't do grooming and accept, but not now some of the members are cosmetically grooming that don't change the essence, maybe some of the attitude, but they add essential things to them, so we're a little bit of it, we're wasting time on cosmetics, and then we need to get some things that are new in this law that appear as new and they don't exist. The fifth thing I want to mention, it's now an introduction through Article 22. Scanning administrations. He says – the minister sets a solution for health institutions at a tertiary level, which will perform... These are rare diseases, and I'll talk about the state administration later. So we now have the legal introduction of regulation in Article 13, it's a new added member, it's a center for a certain kind of rare disease and it's called a rare disease center. Of course, in medical practice we meet, especially in recent years, in many hereditary and acquired, not to engage in professions, rare diseases that require special diagnostics, treatment procedures. Now, you're introducing a new center here, but you're halfway solved. This is where you state what's being done within the center. Suddenly, after that, you say in the last position – healthcare institutions are now obliged to provide data on the number of patients diagnosed. Wait, if we form and the minister determines the center for rare diseases at the therapeutic level of protection, what other lower-level health institutions are now going to be educated? It comes from that, if you suggest, that in this place there must be conditions of diagnostics, treatment, education of personnel working there on a high level, and that the diagnostics of rare diseases are a major problem. The point is that these levels of lower health care institutions need to sense it and pass it there right away. So this is where you confuse it here, because a rare condition, so no hospital, any one of which is well equipped, at the level of a general hospital, but professionally that it now delivers data, and this is what you said, so they need to sort of diagonize and heal, and that's not right. They should also decide and say that, in the event of a rare disease, healthcare institutions are obliged to pass on patients with rare disease to the centre. So, a rare disease center is being introduced. At this level of organization, these are high-ranking institutions, traditionally equipped, but I say the last attitude is confusing and lower levels of health care institutions need only those patients, where rare disease is thought to be passed on. A new organisational unit is being introduced, and that is, as is said in the new article 22, it is said – for the sake of doing business, I read this for the public, we have read it here, the State Administrations in the field of promotion of the organization and implementation of screening programs, the Administration for screening programs is being established and the jobs they are doing are listed. Now that administration, it's actually a new agency, now the agency that needs to be made by screening. It determines what the minister is doing, what the government does, and that's all it says. Here, even in this article, it remains unclear and how this State Administration and its objectives will be organized, absolutely. There are no sentences that could, as the government tends to say in its laws, and that is not done here either – the way of the organization, the Scanning Authority is governed by the minister by a special act. Now I'm paraphrasing it. So it's listed here to be founded, and it's not even given. It's just a set of goals. Not to go in there why it takes a discussion of the expert public, because in my head now I can imagine how this administration is going to work. Because it's in the explanation of this administration, it's extensive, and it's okay to explain as much as for all the other members, it's here on several sides, for all areas of medicine, and not to read, and that's what's known, and even to ordinary people, through various campaigns, television and newspapers -- breast cancer, breast cancer. The bottom line is what and how this administration is going to propose some standards for implementation, to bring professional methodological guidance, when it needs people who deal with this area who actually know the whole problem, which is already organized at the level of health care, from the tertiary to the chosen doctor, in fact only one expensive way should be transferred. This way you give money for one, I'll use the term agency, for a new agency, for a director, for assistant directors, for some administration. Who's going to work in that administration, you don't say. It's just a nice thing to say that the director is being appointed, so that the assistant directors are being appointed, so that each screening will have its own assistant. So another additional budget cost by introducing this kind of administration. I'm not saying this isn't useful, but we're saying that this is an unnecessary budget cost and this can be like a screening that's already been detached for dozens of years in our health care, in the usual way. Just to illustrate, and today you have organisations to report infectious and oncological patients – whether I have pathology, whether it goes from the operating departments to the Institute of Public Health, that's one catchphrase, it's supposed to be folk health, not public, but I have to use it. So this is an unnecessary cost. Anything else can be resolved. Once again, some modest money, which has all the health care, is set aside for something. I don't mind the profession, but the proper administration here will do it again, so that it will lead to all of this, and that in this way it spends the health budgets that are small. Here in the final part, you say yourself that this will only come to life since 2013. So far there are no funds, so this is absolutely in this part and at this point unnecessary. We're saying again that this could have been resolved in another way. I see I'm running out of time, but I'm going to mention more, so I'm going to continue in front of the MP's group, and there's a newspaper coming up. That's the next thing: licensing. The temporary licensing that they are supposed to receive, I suppose, by foreign citizens, they are more prominent and eternal in the new methodologies they need to bring to us to educate the staff and therefore are given a temporary licence. That, according to the director of the medical chamber, was their objection four years ago, and now they have it. That part that's a newspaper needs to be regulated legally. There should have been a small retreat there, though. Why? You know, some of us were abroad, I was in America. Do you know how many of these people, and the minister knows, those who are big names, and there, that I don't read in members, in addition to the invitation letter, now he needs to deliver his methodology and his license to prove he works there. He will say, "Wait, you call me." I won't let my secretary send my license either. If you need me, I'll be there. If you don't need me, I have good receipts in my country. It was legally meant to be settled, but it had to be made up, because you're going to meet, and I met two people who are full of themselves, they're great, but simply, if you invite them and if we need them, they're not going to bring in and they're going to meet our terms, they're going to meet their own. So for a temporary license, in some situations, those that can happen, and they're not so rare in everyday life, that there's only one way off. Am I running out of time? All right, I'm done, so I'll pick it up later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58601	Thank you. National MP Simo Vukovic, an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58602	I thank Mrs Comic, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for my presentation of amendments and additions to the two system laws in the field of health, to begin with the deep impression she marked in the previous days, let me say, a sort of debate on these laws in public ballots, which is that they exclusively refer to the future state to finance a gender change. As bizarre as that is, there is a real picture of the scale that includes political actors, but also the depth of the analysis that media representatives are entering. So, on the one hand, this law that should enable that group of people to have fundamental human rights, it is the right to semi-identification, someone contests and gives that fart tone, which should make the fog and compromise the changes and additions of the law that, which I will point out, during my presentation, may represent curiosity in the last few years. Why? Because these laws, which since the start of the economic crisis since autumn 2008, have been talking about Serbia, for the first time in some laws, after years of restrictions, we have given an extension of rights and something that may be the most important to citizens, which is the right to health care. Today is a good day for farmers, agricultural households, for children, especially high school age, for students who will receive preventive dental care they did not have in the previous period. We have good news for people who have had this accident that they are victims of domestic or trade violence and a special group of people who are often not aware, and these are people who suffer from rare diseases, who are parents of children, who are of rare diseases. Whether it's small and it's over, it's the highlight of cynicism, that someone's making a joke and saying that this law actually just allows some people out there who are minors, scissors, now the state needs to finance it. So it's at least a shame. The united regions of Serbia and I, who am here an authorised representative, cannot allow that, and we will try to make maximum, affirmative talk about these laws. What are these laws giving us? First of all, the Health Protection Act, which I will look back on, and this also applies to the Health Insurance Act, there is an obligation to comply with certain provisions of the Constitution, which was adopted in 2006, from another ancient we, meanwhile, have ratified for the last two to three years a series of international agreements, conventions, and what we should also accept as European directives, which are implemented in these laws. So it's an excessive obligation to bring our legal documents into line with what I've put out. What is particularly to be pointed out in the Health Protection Act, that is, in the coming period, I hope that, with certain shades, this law will be accepted to further strengthen the basis of the health ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be based on preventive measures, early detection and disease control. The fact is that Serbia is facing a single explosion and an epidemic of chronic non-infectious diseases, of course, that in the first place is cardiovascular disease, but what needs to be repeated over and over again, malignancies are also the biggest enemy, to say, in the peace period of our citizens. So what these legal provisions will put an accent on and allow us to assume that we are facing what are serious problems in the health of the population, that is early detection, in terms of screening and forming of the screening administration, which means, in particular, that we will continue one of the largest national programmes, which is - Serbia versus cancer, in particular means that in the next few years, as regards breast cancer, early, therefore, clinical examinations and mammography should cover more than a million and 200 thousand women. Over the next few years, it takes more than 70%, so 75% of the population of women over 49 years to cover the examinations, and of course, what is also very important, is that this screening will refer to early detection of colon cancer, which is often taboo in our society, and takes its toll and faces a large number of people. What the Health Protection Act also adopts is several parts relating to clinical trials. Surely, the public who is not directly involved in the health system, and even in scientific and research institutions, especially the therapeutic type, this is not of interest, but it should be indirect. So in institutions such as the Clinical Centres of Serbia, as well as the other three clinical centres, of course there are clinical trials without which we are unable to improve our profession and medical science. However, we have often faced decisions being made by the Ethics Committee, namely the work of the Ethics Committee, which decides on a clinical trial, by persons participating in the clinical trial itself, where there was a direct conflict of interest. By passing these provisions in the Health Protection Act, we will also arrange this area in the coming period. What is also very important is that for what often appears in everyday practice as a problem, which is to transfer patients from one health institution to another, and these are primarily related to transportation from so-called. Secondary and therapeutic health institutions, so far there has been a problem with whether to transfer the patient and vice versa or between the two institutions of the same rank. So, between two general hospitals or general hospitals and some clinics and institutes, we're going to settle this law. I have to say, I'm going to say this law, and I see that we have a dispute and a misunderstanding, and there will be disabling various forms of manipulation in the area of providing health services by foreign citizens who appear in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with commonly applied so-called. medical methods which are not approved by any authority or institution in the country. So, it's very often on the border of dilation or these drug abuses, so at this point, the state wants to take control of this by giving this temporary license and absolutely alone believing that we in this segment are going to have an efficiency related to certain scientific authority that will definitely be staying here. What is particularly important to point out, it is very good that the ministry as a proposing gave this solution, we will finally be able to react to a state of deficit specialization such as anesthesiology, radiology, pathology or cardio surgery. To be fully picturesque, therefore, according to data from last year, we had only 54 cardio surgeons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with enormous pressure on patients for operating procedures in the institutions in which they are performed. In doing so, we are objectively facing the outflow of these closely specialized personnel due to the restriction that exists in the payment of doctors for their services. Of course, that people go with their freedom where they are better paid, where their work is much better valued. On the other hand, we have achieved some savings through a restrictive specialization policy, but at this point it is necessary for certain specializations or their allocation to cut deadlines, it will be consistent with the ministers' decision-making obligation to carry out a two-year period before getting a specialisation for the deficit specialisations for that calendar year, and for the rope specialisation that deadline will be minimal for two years. As for the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, I've already touched part of it, of course I'll mention it one more time. We'll try, first of all, by adopting this law to comply with the provisions of the PIO Act, which is related to agricultural producers. Of course we go with the solution, that practically all agricultural holdings, households that deal with agricultural activity with minimum half a hectares of power, of course members of these agricultural and living communities, will be able to exercise the rights of compulsory health insurance, practically through the bearer of the agricultural household. It is a very good thing that we can tell farmers today, and very often it does not matter whether we are in power or in opposition swear that agriculture is our strategic branch, so in this sense the health sector contributes to that direction. What's very important is the choice of the insurance base. That possibility has never existed before. The basis for insurance in the next period can be chosen, either on the basis of employment, pension or any other basis, but it is very important that this change that is proposed prevents malversions and a hole in the law that existed and has often been misused, which is that individual professions have used the possibility of going to sick leave and on the other hand to enjoy retirement. Also, I would like to mention a number of anti-corruption members who have been given in this law, and I would like to mention that in the next period the Republic Fund will have the obligation to issue a solution within 90 days, or to respond to what happens to the cure, because so far we have had a problem concerning the silence of the administration. What I also want to say, and I think it is very important for the general public, because today, for sure, part of the debate will mark a discussion on corruption, which is that these amendments explicitly prohibit the acquisition of any material or immaterial benefit in providing services provided by compulsory health insurance. Sanctions are also provided for all healthcare professionals, regardless of their kind, until they can be fired. So I'm not talking about criminal prosecution for certain stores here. The next thing I'd like to point out and what's very important, is that paying the contributions that have been made in a series of previous years, and I'd say for a decade, it's been problematic, it's going to be tried one more time to put it in place. This means that what we had in the previous period, that often employees cannot verify health books because the contributions are not paid, or they are discounted, in the next period will be given an opportunity to pay a contribution to health insurance on a continuous basis, that will be paid practically from the beginning, that year and month since you stopped paying contributions. In this way, on the one hand, the Fund is trying to make up debts to those who have not paid their contributions, and on the other hand, it seems to me that employers will also have the opportunity to correct what they did in the previous period, and above all to the harm of employees and their health. A special part of which I would point out and on which the representatives of the URS have also given their effect is related to the extension of health insurance rights, which relate to followers of persons suffering from lack of visibility, blind persons, deaf persons. So, what has not been included so far in the costs from now on will be covered by the cost of escorts. Especially what I'm trying to say is that in a package of what health insurance will cover there will also be costs for sending or travel expenses for haemodialysis. I have to remind you that in certain parts of Serbia, because of the divergence, the unaccessible terrain, some patients on haemodialysis go tens of miles and that creates serious costs. Through what was given in the amendments and additions to the Law and regarding the change in the way of funding is the best denial of all those who have spent months and even years backwards said that payment in the manner of reception and diagnostic related groups has failed. This is the best denial and it is that we are practically fulfilling the conditions for this process to continue. For the first time, we will create conditions that under the Health Insurance Act we can implement this system of payment and pricing of health services that will be determined on the basis of the number of sick days, services provided, diagnostic related groups, number of patients per selected doctor, etc. So all of this is the continuity of the reforms that are being done in the health system, with the really objective problems that exist in the health system. What we do not agree to is that everything is shown as black, that health is practically the worst segment of social life in Serbia. We absolutely do not agree to the medical profession, the profession of health workers being blackened and incriminated as criminal. I will finish my presentation in this part by supporting these amendments to the two system laws on health care and health insurance, and I am taking the opportunity to congratulate with the representatives of the health ministry and the minister on the courage to enter these two months of mandates, as he called them, in a serious and broad circle of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58603	It was used 17 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58604	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates, the Honorable Chairman, on behalf of the SRS and MPs of the Parliament Club, I ask you to withdraw such proposals in this manner. I will explain this view to the facts that I think have a foothold in the country's legal regulations, today in force, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which, in such a small number today, discusses the system laws of health, and as far as you are concerned, you will all hope, the well-being of all our citizens. It is in the tradition of the Serbian people that they appreciate health as the highest value. It also explains the meaning of this people in the past, which has been proven to be well organized by health care. Just a few brief reminders. Or, let me put it this way. The first reason I ask you to withdraw these laws is precisely the tradition of the Serb people in the organisation of health services and in legislative action. Serbia had legislation among the first countries in Europe. Only four years after England was passed was the Health Protection Act, 1879, and the Law on Sanitary Law. The great Vladan Djordjevic, not only a doctor but also a diplomat, has proposed those laws. Serbia's 1970 health insurance law is still among the best law exhibits in the World Health Organisation's regional office in Copenhagen. There are some facts that have long been forgotten, as well as that we today have top experts from the World Health Organization who have owed not only our people, but we are free to say humanity, which is professor. Jakovljevic and not to list further important people who have passed legislation, both ours, who served for example, and the World Health Organization. Of course, that's where I think of Professor Micovic. Now, what does the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure say? I will read Article 151 for citizens, and partly for the presidency, which is quite restrictively applied by the Rules of Procedure and regulations when we are MPs, strictly adhere to and adhere to it, so, well, let me try to wake up with them that wire of keeping the rules. What do you say in point two? Reasons for the regulation and, within them, a specific analysis of the current situation, the problems that the regulation needs to address. Where have the MPs been given an analysis of the current situation? To be very practical, here on many sides has already been highlighted as one parity of expanding insurance rights. How many people are you going to cover these rights? Every serious man when he adopts system laws, he first has a serious analysis of what he has to do, what he will do, and if it is material resources, of course, from where and whether he will be able to obtain those funds. If you go to the Association with Rare Diseases site, you will see that you have 500,000 Serbian citizens who have this or that rare disease have declared on their site. They're rare diseases, but the patients aren't. Why? Because these diseases are between six and eight thousand. Where are you going to provide funds for all these people, who now expect a lot of right, to provide funds? The question isn't rhetorical, the question is real. You can't even get budget funding today for what the current Insurance Act says. You said yourself, Mr. Minister, and you keep saying that over a million citizens who don't have insurance, we know what the economic situation is, we know what employment is, they get out of that budget five euros a year. You yourself talked about the problems of the royal health center, which he did not sign with the contract fund and seek arbitration. As they reached the wall, out of despair, they only tried to receive emergencies. That's what you told us yourself. Why? People don't even get the basic means of treating the most severe cancer patients and writing to you. They're also writing to the Bureau of Security. There are three times the number of cancer patients, and you're denying us, eight million you're not giving us. You don't pay attention to doctors. If a man looks at the report of the Statistics Institute of Serbia from the end of 2010. For years, then he sees that the number of unemployed is up by 4.9%. On the other hand, if he looks at gross national income, then he sees that he was 3.1% lower in that year, negative. So we have a trend. Okay, maybe it'll be better. But that being, it's a cat in a sack, which you haven't even tried to think about and at least in any way convince us that something like that will be possible. It's nice, you've raised the law to young people from 15 to 19 years of rights. How many of these youngsters are there? Can you give me an answer? You have to give it to me. I know the answer, but we didn't hear that answer. You see, in this Rules of Procedure, which the chairman is extremely familiar with and knows it in detail, it is said - must contain a report and an assessment of the financial resources needed to implement the rules. They're gone. How come you didn't warn the authorising officer that it was missing? Let's touch the urgency of the procedure. In Article 167, the President-in-Office laughs, as it is said - the law can be passed by emergency procedure, a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be predicted. I'm asking you now, let's answer me, you're not on the board, what were the circumstances you couldn't predict? Let's be a little bit in the field of obsessing, as we're told. These laws were passed without a public hearing. You have offered, as you have offered us, that I agree with this and the President of the Council Delic. Serbia's health union, the most competent body to deal with systemic solutions, has not been consulted at all. The Serbian medical society has not been consulted at all. You've given us an explanation that no public debate is necessary, since cosmetic solutions have been changed. Now we're in doubt whether it's cosmetic solutions? If they're cosmetic, then why is it urgent? There is one more interesting response from the government of the Republic of Serbia in a questionnaire for the European Union. They ask from the European Union – how are these health stakeholders born? In particular, experts and patients also include the definition and validation, application and assessment of health care and protection strategies. You answer, Government - during the adoption of strategic documents, a presentation of the public draft documents has been set up where the document is located in a public debate. The final text includes objections that have been reached in the course of a public debate. Why are you making a lie about a document like this? Yesterday I said, "I do not know if you are doing this on purpose, that someone may dispute later on to you, and say, "See what you wrote, and see what you do?" You wrote that health regulations, if I didn't read the rest of this, would be even worse. I now appeal to the people who lead this Parliament to be consistent and to return a document that does not deserve to be in the Assembly, because there are no basic elements to which it insists, in a member of the Rules of Procedure that I have read, to an analysis, I repeat, of the present state. It's nowhere to be found. It's not just a formal reason, the main reason is that this law is extremely bad. It is a mixture of systemic and practical solutions. Partly when you read the law, you think this is a system law. Next time you read the law, you think this is a rule book or a rule book, it goes into some details unnecessary. A man can't even figure out what's going on. There's one more thing we can't get past. In yesterday's discussion on the Committee, I said "you will be resented by the parties for doing this, when you wrote in your questionnaire," I was told "we have also met with this EU representatives, explained and made these proposals that they had no more important remarks on". Now, I'm asking you, maybe you gave me a partial answer, name those people who said this was a good law. We will find ways and strength to ask them at international meetings if they are behind these solutions and if they would suggest such a thing in their country. There is no law like this in a civilized country of Europe. In our Parliament you have a new site, colorful, sophisticated, beautiful, writing – the path of law, reading, and then they have developed countries, and then you have three readings. Where are these civilised European procedures in law-making? You say it's urgent. Let's see how urgent it is to convince us. What did you write in the finals? I read you one law and another, for the sake of the citizens. He says this: "The Republic Fund will bring the statutes and other general acts into line and bring regulations for the implementation of this law by 1 January 2013 at the latest." Here's your emergency. Second law: "The rules for the implementation of this law will be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force." Wow, a year. What's the emergency? This offends the elemental logic. I know the minister didn't make this up, that this wasn't his, but he, a martyr, took on his shoulders a heavy burden to defend this nonsense. What's the problem? Not only to be a simple critic, it's known how the system laws are passed and written. You need to know what's important, you need to know the priorities. There are clear priorities that one ministry would have to have in a country like this with a health situation and an economic situation. Problem number one - the biological threat of the nation, mortality. You have enormously high mortality. What have you done in the last 10 years? The infant mortality fell in both sanctions and war conditions when DOS came to power. In 2009, your infant mortality, the most sensitive indicator, went up. It's a shame. We're being written by the Association of Diabetes, increased mortality four times and diabetes. We've had a meeting with them, they've asked you for a meeting, you'll probably see them, you're a tolerated man, and you talk to everyone, that's not controversial. The state can't even give them the insulins they need right now, the medications they need, even those strips that they determine glycaemia. That's what you'll hear from them. Then how can you let such smoke firecrackers, in the form of system law, spread your rights indefinitely? Let's say it's a law of good wishes. It's not a dispute, it's supposed to have good wishes, but what's the issue? Are they real and real? Dear colleagues, do you remember E.T. Center in Indjia, 25,000 employees, 600 million profits, fountains, palm trees, prominent lists "Politika", "Dnevnik" announces before the campaign, Indians come, comes "Gugl", comes "Majkrsoft"? The elections have passed – there is nothing. Do you remember that 1,000-euro promise? What did we get? It is unfortunate that this law, too, is to our shame and unfortunately our honorable predecessors whose legal proposals and day stand today in the windows of the WTO. What's most tragic, unfortunately, because of the people who are going to be put into an even worse situation, and you're not talking about indicators and health indicators, you're not talking about mortality, you're not talking about infant mortality, you're not talking about anything, they're going to get worse, it's legislation, especially under these laws. Now I'm going to stop, since I've used my 20 minutes, and I hope we can convince you that we're not critics, but that based on the profession, science, the world's civilization principles, we're claiming something that is absolutely true, to the misfortune of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58605	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58606	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will state the truth that the DS has never had a minister of health in its history, nor has it been run by the Ministry of Health. We believe that many reforms should have been faster, but I mention that the Minister of Health also had SPS, JUL, DSS, G17 and that Mr. Paja Momchilov was a minister without portfolios, but he could have done a lot of things in that government. The DS supports the work of a resolute minister, and we wish him all the happiness in this work. Health care is very complicated, in conditions where you don't have a lot of money, when you're attacked a lot. The DS will be very objective to look at all health gaps, in order to improve the quality for the sake of Serbian citizens. What I'm saying is, we haven't been able to do it yet, it's to even private with state practice. This is something the DS has always insisted on – protection of private property and private property. In health care, private health care is still not in the same position as public health. What I keep mentioning at some Committee meetings and plenary sessions, many medical students end up in college, and after that they have no work to do. As a professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, I am pleased to inform you that in July I had two students who received dozens from my class, but which 10.0 average. I'm asking you, are they going to be able to get a 10.0 average job at the clinic or do they have to, like all the other good students, look for a job in a smaller place or watch as commercial passengers of some pharmaceutical house? My proposal, as was the previous minister, which did not come true with the previous minister, and I hope that he will, given that you are from southern Serbia and that at least with me at the beginning you have support because you are from southeastern Serbia, where good, honest and poor people are, to establish co-operation between the health and education ministries, which means that you clearly determine the number, the quota of entry policy at the medical colleges with you, that the Ministry of Education cannot issue quotas, and that you are then holding on to heads that you cannot hire young doctors who are the future of the state, who must then be pharmaceutical travellers or leave our country, and that we have educated them good children in our country. What I also suggested yesterday on the Republic Health Committee as an MP of the DS, and I also consider as a representative club of the DS, is the introduction of an electronic health card that has been challenged by some opposition MPs, and only because they live in ignorance. I didn't dream of this, I didn't make it up, I studied in Switzerland for two years and a year in America. The introduction of an electronic health card means that if you treat someone in Presevo, all the analyses, scans, laboratory analyses you insert into his medical records under his code and if he finds himself in Subotica or Valjevo, the doctor typed his password has until then his illnesses, problems solved and there is no need to additionally burden the poor budget of the Republic of Serbia with additional analyses, if those analyses are already done somewhere. As a professor of medical school from Nis and as deputy director of the ORL clinic from Nis, I will tell you that when we send a patient to Belgrade, all the analyses that were made in Nis are further done in Belgrade and again paid by the budgetary of Serbia. Let's make a move, it's not that expensive, the introduction of this software that would unite all health institutions in Serbia and do something avant-garde. The DS introduces all these new ones, for some MPs taboo topics, but we have to break taboo topics in every area, even in health care. What no one has mentioned so far, I will tell you that we lack something in the health system in Serbia. We're missing an emergency center in Nis. You know for yourself that according to EU procedures on the 200km highways, you must have an orderly centre, Novi Sad has an UC, and then Belgrade goes after that. From Belgrade to Skopje, you have no UC where you will take care of severe patients who are injured in a car accident, and every day we witness that a huge number of Turkish, Greek and other citizens of our temporary employees travel on this highway. The need to build UC in Nis to complete these European standards. These are my remarks as the MP of the DS, and I will always, at every meeting, stand up for some newspapers to be introduced. As for the additions that you have introduced into this Health Protection Act, I welcome them and they are really good and in the beginning it turns out that they want to get in the way of some things that have not been good so far. I'll start first with Article 148 where you've regulated the Ethics Committee in a health care facility to control the use of new drugs. I'll tell you, since I work at KC Nis, that a huge number of unknown drugs are being tested, i.e. applies to patients without any control, which means that so far, a professor, a doctor at a health facility in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, has started checking with a pharmaceutical house on a patient who has no idea. Patients in their fear of disease, afraid to trust a doctor anyway. Doctor, I'm not talking about everything, but some, in the desire of private wealth, they might have been willing to take some harmful medications, despite the knowledge that the bad ones may have taken the test. I ask the resolution ministry to deliver to the DS parliamentary group how many new drugs, untested in America and Europe, have been started to be tested in Serbia over the past 10 years. I repeat, the DS has never had the honour and the obligation to carry out reforms in the health portfolio of our Republic Health Ministry. This member, the introduction of three specialists in the profession, who control the use of new drugs, introduces control at last, which is very good for our citizens to make sure that the drugs that are new on our market will be good for their health. As for the formation of state administration affairs in the field of promotion, organisation and implementation of the screening method, a very good thing. As a doctor and as a surgeon, I can welcome and really confirm that a huge number of patients, a huge number of citizens in Serbia in the last 20 years have been ill with many, I will say, malignant diseases, given that I am in the business of head and neck surgery and the happiness of many malignancies due to a poor life that has been from the 1990s due to poor nutrition, due to the abuse of tobacco, cigarettes and alcohol together, and due to the stress that has been constant since the 1990s to 2000, means a huge increase in malignant diseases, not only of the colon, as the minister said some MPs, but other organs in our organism. As an ORL doctor, I'm going to tell you that the rise in malignancies of upper airways is enormous, even for the last 20 years, exceeding world values. So it's certainly good that screening methods are not only limited to colon, uterus and breast, but also to other organs to protect this nation. The Serbian nation is very good, poor and deserves much more respect than the health profession is right now. I'm going to tell you that DS advocates being a patient in the first place, not a doctor. The offended opinion of many doctors is that they're in charge of the hospital and that they're all turning around. I'll tell you that's not true, the standard that the patient is right always, not the doctor. Therefore, the DS advocates the availability of healthcare everywhere in Serbia for every citizen of Serbia, to be free of charge, to have no waiting list, that there is no possibility of waiting for any diagnostic method to wait for a month, two or three. Dear fellow Members of the People, I will tell you that the main corruption isn't by catching one or two doctors for 100 or 200 euros, the main corruption is in major tenders, making a waiting list when some major doctors allow you to get across the line for some operation or for some air therapy. The DS condemns all the trends rooted in Serbian health, but the DS finds that 90% of Serbian doctors are fair, that 90% and more doctors in Serbia have worked for many years without receiving. I'll remind you, during the bombing, during that crazy time of Slobodan Milosevic and the sanctions when we received one or two stamps. Did Serbia's health system stop then? He didn't stop, the healthcare workers were in the most difficult conditions, without adequate equipment, conducting the most difficult procedures. KC in Nis was the main centre for the management of all injured young Serbs who were needlessly losing their heads, hands, legs on KIM. Serbian healthcare does not deserve to be labeled corrupt. We support the fight of the Ministry of Health, we maintain the fight of NGOs, we also support a doctor against corruption, all well-intentioned people who want to show that there is a name in some clinic that takes the money and that that name must be processed. The DS does not want the entire health care to be placed on a pillar of shame but wants to make it clear that someone at some point did a bad thing and dared to say that his hands in Serbia cost so much and so much. Dear Serbian citizens, Serbian health care is free of charge. As long as DS is as socially democratically responsible organisations, healthcare will be free of charge. There will be no possibility of any charge being made. Please destroy, not reduce, destroy the waiting lists. The waiting lists are also a possibility for corruption in our health care system. As a professor of medical school, I would also like to commend an increase in age for using dental services. Maybe we've cut up a lot of dental services for the youngest population, I mean students. Many students I have met have problems with their teeth and many students come from the interior, from Leban, from Medvedje, from the Shop, where barely from their parents can carry up to 20, 30 euros and manage in a dormitory. Could they pay dental services ranging from 50 to 100 euros? I don't think so. So I welcome this extension, an increase in age to provide dental services to our youngest and smartest population. Introducing an electronic health card is a very good thing. It's also consistent with my proposal to introduce an electronic health card. I have accurate information that it's about three and a half euros, printing that health card, so it doesn't require a lot of money, and it will make it much easier to control health insurance. The issue of a license to foreign doctors, as much as anyone has said that a professor is as important as possible, so he can't be entitled to deliver his certificate through the secretary of law on professional exams and diplomas, I'll tell you that this is a very good thing, too, because by respecting our country, we're putting standards in place that no one, without confirmation, can enter our country and operate on our citizens. I would slowly finish my presentation with another commendation to your ministry, where you have seen the problem that we have in some specialities, and this is the problem not only in cardio surgery, radiology, anaesthesiology, but in some other specialities, so I hope this will help to reduce this gap and we will have the possibility that as many specialists, cardio surgeons, anesthesiologists and radiologists as possible. Dear Ministers, respected members of the Ministry of Health, the DS will vote in favour of these additions to the Health Protection Act. In some exhibitions, I will return to some of the good things the DS has seen that they have not been introduced into Serbia's health system, and certainly, as long as you are on the path of justice and honesty in the interests of Serbian citizens, you will have the support of the DS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58607	Fifteen minutes and 30 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MPs Paja Momcilov and Nikola Lazic were reported in the electronic system. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Nikola Lazic, from the site: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Paja Momchilov, from town: Replica, mentioned me by name. ) I ask the MPs, who are particularly proud in their performances of ignorance about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to take the text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 104, and to read it in the case of a provision that defines the replica, which they now seek out. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Lazic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Lazic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58608	Article 107. I think he's a colleague, a little while ago saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58609	People's MP, the right to replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58610	How do you know what I want to talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58611	People's MP, in the best possible way I can, taking care of order and tolerate the misappropriation of MPs, I have called for you to read the provisions concerning the rights of replication. Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word from the authorised representatives or president of the parliamentary groups anymore, I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted by parliamentary groups: the LDP parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the URS parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group and the ZES parliamentary group. The first to be reported on the list of speakers is National MP Marija Bulgarcic, followed by National MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58612	Thank you. I would like first of all to express my satisfaction that you have listened to the LDP parliamentary group because on 7 June this year we have sent you a request from this place to send amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act by urgent procedure. I would also like to thank you publicly for answering the parliamentary question that I have asked you and thus become one of the few ministers who does so within a reasonable period of time. I'd start with a member of the 11th that we've appealed to in the course of previous performances and I'll start with it, which says it extends the right to dental health care to children over the age of 18 and students until the age of 26. After 15,000 signatures collected by students, a student appeal, dentists from dental clinics from Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, writing to the previous health minister, writing to the president of the Republic of Serbia, students will finally be able to exploit the rights of their peers in the surrounding countries, which is the right to a free dental service. Now I think there's hope for our intellectual elite, I think there's going to be less fragile Serbia than it's ever been before, and I think this should be the beginning of a turn, the beginning of taking care of our young people. I hope there will be more smiles on the faces of our young people and more work for our dentists from dental polyclinics. Also, article 8 contains newspapers, which is that besides parents, adoptors, stepdads and stepmoms, compulsory health insurance rights can also be achieved by brothers and sisters, unless they have the means to support them. And this way of extending health insurance rights is in the opinion of us from LDP good. Also, Article 27 is something to be mentioned, and this is an extended right to extend the right to chemo and radiotherapy in addition to a comprehensive circle of faces that has been given the right to compensation for the transport costs for haemodialysis. That's all that's good in this law. I would also point out something that is consistent with our European pathway, it is the introduction of an electronic health card, which is a special kind of document in our law. We are, to remind you, the last country in the region to introduce this kind of electronic health card. Montenegrins also have it, Bulgarians have it, Romanians have it. We're kind of catching the last train after our neighbors. What does that mean? This actually means that the area of health is united and that it is placed under faceless computer control. A new era for our patients means they'll use a plastic card, which they won't have to verify anymore, which is good. Secondly, this patient's electronic chart would only be available through his I.D. card that he can only open, to see a doctor who was entrusted with this right. Patients will no longer have to wear thick files with a history of illness and walk from one doctor to another, so they'll only be able to have insight into this electronic chart, as I said, the doctor the patient decides. You've scheduled a three-year period from the day of entry into force of this law. I wonder why such a long period? Don't you think we should speed up our path to the EU, and this is one of the roads leading to Europe. I think you could cut that deadline because three years is a really long time and I think we should speed up the reform process in this country. Also, I would say that this law extends the circle of insurance to victims of domestic violence and victims of human trafficking. That's what the LDP has been up for since its founding. More than 5,000 victims of domestic violence were reported in Belgrade alone only in the previous year. I'd remind you that last year 31 women were killed by victims of domestic violence. Every other woman, according to statistics, is somehow a victim of domestic violence in our country. What's scandalous is that every other violence has seen the child with its own eyes. The least we can do for those victims is provide them with free health insurance. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask you a question about what the Ministry is doing to prevent all of this. The study says that over 41% of women are mentally abused, 33.5% and mentally and physically, 20.7% are physically abused, 1.7% sexually, and 0.4% belong to various types of violence. What is not good in this bill and what we have put amendments on, and we will talk more when the debate is in particular, Article 10. The rights of workers have been reduced under the applicable law, and this law further reduces it. How? During the infringement of labour and the absence of the right to go or to work, we believe that this should be changed and that the LDP has submitted an amendment to that member of the law. Also, in the Health Protection Act, what I would point out is that a screening administration is formed in Article 129. That's good. The law says it's run by the director, and it's being appointed by the government. So none of the depoliticization and decommissioning of our system. That's what we don't like about this law. What I would also suggest is that you did not predict the exact number of assistant directors of this screening administration. How many helpers exactly will that be? Don't you think there'll be a bunch of administrations if it's left here so-called. A hole in the law? We currently have three screening programs – for breast cancer, uterus cancer and colon cancer. Does that mean we have three assistant directors? What happens if another screening program is introduced? Is that possible or not? I'm gonna finish up, so I can give my colleagues some time. The right of a patient to make an appointment should be provided for a reasonable period of time. The waiting lists are big. I can only remind you that on a magnetic resonance in Uzica now that you've scheduled a magnetic resonance, you can come to order in October or November of the month, and the entire Moravia County is over 230,000 inhabitants, gravitating on that one magnetic resonance. Therefore, that is where the order should be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58613	Nine minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Milet Poscuric has the word, and after him is the folk messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and the associates present, I'm going to have to start with a general grudge that was heard today. All of us debaters who go behind the first echelon of authorized representatives will be at risk of repeating ourselves in something. Of course, the biggest regret is what is fundamentally changing or not changing, and why we went by emergency procedure when this is not really on the list, on the agenda of the necessary steps for the EU. This is the correction of the screw-up from the time the law was passed, when we, most of us who spoke here today, were sitting in congregation benches and saying that the solutions that are based upon the law, which we are changing for the third time, are not good. We have submitted amendments, and I remember many people who were then specifically talking about problems that would prove to be real. Here, take only dental care, when you somehow vesteriously, like once Berlin, removed from service, pushed into semi-private bases by reducing the right of those who will be able to carry out certain dental examinations, interventions, etc. Now you're returning it and the man has to say it's positive. Who would have thought it was negative when the problems were in the population, and the problems with a number of dentists, you remember already on Sima's street what happened, right after the law, people worked for the euro and a half, two, they couldn't get paid. Even one Belgrade, a strict centre, one Simina street, the home of health could not "get" a clientele that would pay for its services. So it's correct that you've corrected it. But what could not have been ahead of this urgency? This urgency draws on other elements that have become a rule of conduct of the ruling coalition, which is that the opposition has as little chance of reading the law as possible, as soon as possible to hand over the amendments as possible, and then the government has the opportunity to read these amendments and most often miserably responds to them. So, no matter how many times you read the law, you can see more and more what can be corrected by amendment, so that all of us who wrote the amendments would certainly write a lot of letters, and then the question of why this effort, what's the problem with finding out what's wrong when the law needs to change systemically, so it really does something new. The conceptal difference between the opposition and the position. You cannot solve the conceptal difference through amendment interventions. Perhaps you could, that would be more useful, we would all welcome it, if as a man, as a minister who presented himself to the public as someone who really wanted to take a second course in Serbia's health system, that he might try to fix something that was in the reform decade, which, behind us, ruined on the ground of the economy, in the field of justice, in the field of education, but in a very sensitive segment, what a health system, has been systematically destroyed and brought to many dubiosiss, you show and you come out and you pass on to us a balance sheet. Why do we have to get involved in NGOs websites, read the newspapers, ask each other how many billions of euros in 10 years, how much through loans, how much through donations, how much in what was spent, how many centres were to be renovated, how many did not, how much money went out in these or in those ways, how much was lost in tenders, how much tender documentation was installed. So there's a lot of ambiguities that we might have heard, that you just have a befel in front of this body, that you know that you told us what you found out when you came to that place, and to God and to find out who he was and where he was doing it, because almost seven-eight-ten years of the mandate of the single composition of the Ministerial Office of Health has led us to the point that you are now fixing this law and self-aware that in a year or two we need a system-wide new solution, some kind of different law. So that might be a more logical order of the store, not that we're going into some kind of quick debate right now. If we look at the explanation of why we are going into an emergency procedure, both laws are written in a way that will lead to the improvement of patients' rights. In addition to such a formulation each kneels and says – well, that's right, that's quite a reasonable reason and now you're taxing and something has improved, but it hasn't gone very far. It has improved, for example, the right to screening, the mechanism that is envisaged, which is wrong, the right to raise an old level of insurance -- we quite agree, the introduction of dental elements -- and that is a kind of promotion, etc., respect for the patient's time -- very profoundly. Maybe that's how you regulated someone's right to go into an appointment that might not be necessary? Patients fight under quotes, and you don't respect time anymore, but when they come to do something, do it right now, not come and make an appointment. They're even scheduled in general practice, primary health care. How can someone predict when they're going to get sick? The Minister of Education talks about how he heard the Minister of Health at the time, talking about three days with 39 temperatures and flu that someone was lying in the house, and then go to the doctor. Who among us would have my child, and I'm a doctor, held for three days with a fever, and just to make sure it's the flu? So, as a taxicab, you can see and look at it as if something moved forward, but it's partial shifts. There are no essential answers. What are the essential answers? There could have been them, not in these members you've changed, but by changing other members, to change other conditions in Serbian health. I think that, but I see and hear here that other MPs have spoken here so many times and used expressions – foreignism, hiatus in the profession, so many times warned that at the university where I am, leaving professors from college, because of retirement, leaving subcatedres, subpopulations, professional subpopulations empty, and today we have a deficit of cardiologists, endocrinologists, etc. on medical professions. So, why did the hiatus of the profession take place in Serbia? Why is there a void? Why were specializations a matter of the political privilege of the party G 17, who then joined her activist at the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac, a girl who was specialising, recruiting and joining the party to get a job? I gave that example, you can deny me, but I live downstairs and I know what it was like. It was a mass of political privilege to come to something, and why – because we need professions. What are these plans from which you see that we have too many specialists or too many subspecies? That's what you could have devoted yourself to, definitely from this Batut, who you're really pushing to do everything and everything, so you gave them a description, they work, they write, they bomb with some reports, they do various projects and they just live well. In this segment of business they live well and the information they send us, the question is how useful they are for the Ministry, etc. Where's the medical advice? Why does the medical board and their director write some letters there, some columns, I don't even understand what they want, what they want to defend, what kind of a big crowd went up, who, some unnamed person? He didn't show up to comment on this law. It is said that the health council will change, or at least have an idea to change the way it specializes in Serbia, but you are now proposing some conditions that are rather liberal to get specialisation or subspecialisation, but that the candidate commits himself, which is right, not to flee abroad or to the neighbouring country. But you limit his human freedoms, and you don't do that to a football player or anyone else, he can leave whenever he wants. It's all about what you've done with this law. Some things are settled. How, in what way? So there's a relatively small waiting list of semi-invasive intervenous cardiological methods. It's waiting till the end of this year. It's not good. You shouldn't wait longer than a few days. But it's reduced. How? New centers have been opened and paid enormously high wages to people who do so. Now are we going to make a selection and pay high wages where we're depressed, so we're going to admit that we made a mistake? Why should we have only a few cardio surgeons in one institution? Why didn't someone come and study next to him? I've spoken before, and I'm saying now – specialization is the cheapest thing for health care and we need to know exactly what we're going to do. We must clearly tell where the problems are - onco-surgery, cardio-surgery. Why didn't people go to the specials? Some of them are clinical centres without cardio surgeons, and they've opened radiological emergency invasive diagnostics? Some things have really lost their chance to be regulated. Perhaps a balance approach would be of greater benefit to us. This law, these proposals and amendments to the law, we do not see how it will reduce the country's obligations to intervene at least where the budget funds are progressively falling, the total quota that goes progressively from the Ministry of Health year to year and the number of beneficiaries that will have to be paid for by the budget to grow, perhaps up to a million. Perhaps today a hundred or two hundred thousand people in Serbia do not have a health book, and you are already introducing new models around this legitimacy and creating new conditions that someone who has not chosen a doctor there will not have the right to health care, except for the element of urgency. You can't make someone choose a doctor where there's no one to choose. He won't choose. He simply has the right to be treated. It's important to you, of course, because you explained there that the system of reception, the system of payment, the implementation of the screening requires that there be a man doctor. But when it comes to one injury, a colleague noticed well, where you cut the road from work and work, by applying certain other people's prescribed standards, it could have been rationally limited, to find some rational time, not to get someone off work, stuck in a pub and got drunk. It's known that it's not that time, and that time can't count. But you can find reasonable and rational time to travel to work. Because that traumatism can be a significant problem, too. This is not defined in detail, I hope there will be sublegal acts, a procedure that is now in force and in which the future will differ. The next thing we want to point out are off-the-book favors. We didn't go out, I'm not familiar, that we intend to define the concept of standard services according to the level of protection, a defined package of services that the insurance company will receive for free. Today he has to participate, and if he wants to go into prevention, to measure fat in the blood, he has to pay for it in the home of health. If he goes to some analysis that he can't do in his home of health, he's going to have to go to secondary, therapeutic level, which the institutions already have, and there he's going to have to pay for it. Whether or not travel expenses will be paid within the branch office, or some mileage will be defined, we wait for legal and sublegal acts. These sublegal acts have ruined a lot of things in the previous law, which you couldn't even see, no matter how bad the elements are for me, when he goes there to the fund and they write a sublegal act to regulate the law, then you just see how many people are denied. I believe what's now changing has come from such experiences, that we've seen that our rules we've been working on haven't shown good. Simply, as if there was a lasting rivalry of budgetary giving and of a trust fund or a republican health insurance office, you call it the fund. And by changing his name to a fund, how much will it cost to change paperwork, logs, change the website of an institution? Imagine if someone decided to give 10,000 euros, 20,000 euros to change his website? We have an example of people doing this in the government, changing their website, giving some authorised firm huge money and doing it, and these students and children doing it infinitely well for a much smaller fee and everything would work perfectly. But that's how it works. Participation on the exams is one of the things you've touched. You here simply want to ban someone from taking part in something they're not following. It's a much smaller sin, often it's an oversight, because believe me, most health workers feel uncomfortable when they have to take 50 dinars for participation, but they don't feel at all uncomfortable in the pharmacy when they take 50 dinars per box. Whenever you leave, for the same medication you take, in about two, three months, you get a new price for taking the medicine and you use the exact same medicine. So pharmacists feel very comfortable when they take your money, which is the money that is valued at about six billion dinars, that yearly on these services and these kinds of medications citizens give out of their pockets, despite being insurance companies, which they give and participate in. The question of a relationship assessment of what will be on the list is approved by the Government. Watch out, now you let us all approve. That's hard. That's where the waist should somehow get more into it. The administration of drugs that are in the parallel system – one name is paid and the other name is not paid. You can find that some weighting, the lowest level of price and the extra participation in the difference of medication, and not the full payment of one medicine, and the other is completely free of payment. Well, then that's the answer, let me say, to the pharmaceutical mafia and the industry. Daco, you're about, an opportunity to influence the decision-making process. Generally by looking at this concept of change in the party, we've been thinking about how to set ourselves up in this whole story. Some of the solutions you've made simply deserve to be rejected. It's simple, we chose a method, that something that will benefit citizens, we point out that it will benefit. The law, as such, cannot be supported in any case. The issue of continuous medical education is a very important issue. We've changed this amendment to make it easier to define it, to know what it is, under a very elaborate procedure by the health council. So that's where they worked out the minute details. I'd like to see how they worked out that specialization program, or is that speculative? It's been speculated that the state's medical exam will be much more complicated. Why did we generally come in the health system to such great paperwork? We have also come into the education system of large paperwork texts, checks, electronic screens, electronic variations to this famous "KME", etc. Well, now, some electronics will be admitted, some won't. How am I supposed to do some electronic stimulation now, because the chief of my service won't let me go abroad, get professional training through KME, that I'm going to Congress, and now I have to e-mail myself there, and now I'm going to take the certificate that I passed a test that's not very easy, I have to admit, or it's not as easy as some of our educations that we listen to in Serbia, and basically all we're listening to is just to take money. The bottom line is the next one. The dentistry is a rule, a number of quotations arrive, three thousand, five thousand dinars, money taken, and ten people don't listen. So, as a concept, it's something that you've changed, which you've had before -- professional training of workers, they've been clearly defined conventions, seminars, assemblies, general practices, narrow areas of subspecialism, etc., but only confirmation that it was and was not then paid, except for participation in congress and accommodations that it had. This is so determined, does that program and deadlines when you send it, when it's not sent. It will become only one machine to raise money, be sure and truly to know will not come. Why? Because what is basic, and this is the basic management that will be formed, is sending out education now, and what I know, is training the performers of the work that the doctors have chosen on that part – the doctor of general practice and gynecologist, breast, cervix and acute bleeding for cancers. This medical student can't pass an interstitial exam or surgery, if he doesn't know he's talking about what evidence or suspicion that someone has, perhaps, malignant colon disease and is bleeding from it. This will develop hierarchy and machinery. Today your problem is, when you are already being implemented by the EU or some other, funded projects, that women respond to breast examination. Question who will send the invitation to come and take it. It's a general chase. For some small money, gynecologists and nurses are chasing these women. No one will. The city administration at our place in Kragujevac won't print those calls. That's why it's now wanted to be projects, as you predicted here, to print calls, formal forms, so there's going to be media propaganda, so there's going to be promotions, and there's going to be all kinds of crying. Have you analyzed how much it costs? You're predicting that when you enter a health care home, you can see a nurse washing her hands. Which minister is now telling us in the 21st century, on the way to the EU that they have to wash their hands when the patient is examined, and it's stuck on posters? Instead of being some guides, some extracts from the guide, to remind the doctor, they glued posters to the health homes – wash your hands when you examine the patient, put gloves on when you examine the patient. It's now a poster that costs money. Someone's doing it, someone's interested in it, etc. Why are we now a medical nurse who's graduated, learning to wash her hands? It costs us, you know. They do amazing things. I'm afraid that's how it's going to work, too, because a lot of money is going to be spent and people get elected, and that's ten to 15 rational sentences. Now you're sending patients to the whalen to check the chair for acute bleeding, then three samples, so now he's going to wear a doctor, you know how much simpler that can be. In order to verify the book, he must have evidence of systematic checks, within that range, and he will do so. Who could and what administration? The expert commission? You already have a million at the Ministry, but there's a commission for everything, whatever you want, whatever you remember, there's married couples in committees somewhere. So it could've been without it, it could've been solved simpler. So it's a matter of private practice, it's not touched anywhere here, so even a place in this health care system, private practice goes hard. The question of taking drugs without a prescription, whatever it is you want in private pharmacies. Why didn't it work out and he has to go to the recipe? Let's cut one thing, to clear it up once, who's going to make the deal, whether that recipe is going to be blue, whether it's going to be this second, this official, official recipe, but it's a recipe. That no one can issue a cure without a prescription, so that half-phragmies don't happen. The people have already been taught to pay, there is no longer a dilemma to cost them the same. How come there's nothing cheaper in state pharmacies than? Does that have to be such a big margin? So much participation, now the state pharmacy is not a competitor. The pharmacists, the directors of the pharmacy, generally finance local self-government, which is why they're set up. It's decentralisation as you see it. They finance a variety of projects with drugstores, visit continents, camels, safaris, etc. It's a mass phenomenon because pharmacists do their part. The Ministry is pushing them to give cheaper medications to get past them looking there at the executive level where they're going to pass their parallel, their cure. There are a lot of loose ends that I might have, and I thought maybe it would be more logical and we should solve it before we got to these for some people of useful change. It has to be acknowledged, for some people and some professions like dentists, useful changes. Rare diseases, we're tired of people praying over television that there's a hard case and happiness that has rare and good sponsors and donors like that young basketball player whose name I don't remember is from New Sad where he came from. This man should be welcomed, who, unlike many other successful and richer athletes, has repeatedly singled out for the treatment of individuals. But we're tired and confused, which now means that on state television and other means of information, parents' requests appear that their child can only be cured in Russia, England and France and that help is being collected through that and that phone. Let's just say this problem here isn't solved anywhere. I don't understand the treatment abroad. I don't think there's a situation where there's a man abroad, because then this wouldn't be all you've suggested, I don't think it's about this treatment, those oddities. Cultivation of chronic diseases, be careful now. Who's to prove now that someone wasn't co-optivating at home their asthma, their allergies, and whether the pregnant woman who left will not know why, giving birth to an eighth month or so? That's very hard. You've introduced some changes and some bizarre changes that you've introduced with a 65% participation, but well maybe it's because of something that needs to be put on. There was, therefore, what to do to make it more serious, to make it more thorough. You're rated in public as a man who's going to fight corruption. We expect to learn more about this corruption in Serbia and no one is even denying that in health care, even Europe is saying that. The European MPs were at this non-government organisation "Doctors Against Corruption" and said they disagreed with everything. The waiting lists are large, the corporation, the money is taken not only by doctors, the money is taken in corruption in the purchase of equipment, it's a famous commission, the mass of things remains unsettled. I don't know how much time I have left to figure that out. (President: You have four minutes left, but fellow Prince I will leave nothing.) ) A fellow Prince is present and gives me time so that I can finish, so it is easier for him not to wait for a break. As for that extra work, earlier night shifts. Most people think this isn't good, it's not well regulated. There is a banal example of someone knowingly turning a patient and doing so in some other hours, to the fact that some institutions have not yet reached instructions so that a doctor who, for example, is now in private practice can come and do his job at the hospital. To reverse the supplementation of working hours and some institutions are really not able to regulate it. Some institutions went further, one step further, and they introduced some internal patient tags. It'll probably cost the facility itself. The health book is projected to have this electronic documentation, medically, at all levels, available state of play. That's probably what we should do, maybe it's too long to wait for three years. It's going to be a very expensive project. Many things will need to be invested, I believe more in the importance of health legislation in which it may be possible to see whether the patient is taking too often the same medicine, whether it creates home supplies, than I believe complete documentation with these findings will be of some kind of excessive benefit. That's a lot more expensive technology than this basic intensity that stands there. I would like to pay attention, and what has been said here, to the way you've regulated the way you've elected directors of institutions and competitions, etc., management authorities, authorities in health institutions. With the amendment, we have given one solution that is quite typical and could be applied, it would avoid politicizing in the election. Indeed, we often did not understand the demands of some ministers to resign when a doctor, somewhere in a health home, made a professional mistake. The minister did not choose a doctor in the home of health and has no responsibility, he was elected by law. The minister is responsible for major and strategic events, for strategic decisions. One strategic decision is how to choose, how and how to choose leadership, board of directors, supervisory board in health institutions, and above all, secondary and territorial levels and select political influence, and that is clear to the end. I'm also afraid this wouldn't be political and the issue of chamber work would be very much up-to-date. We don't have a report, I don't know, and we haven't heard from you, how much money has been spent in the medical chamber, the medical chamber of Serbia, how much steam has been obtained after the introduction of the chamber, what's going on with these money, what about the dental chamber, why did you predict that the Chamber of Pharmacy itself brings the Code of Good Pharmaceutical Practice, when the Medical Chamber doesn't do so? That's what expert teams do. Why the difference in all this? I guess when and the amendments that we wanted to settle, they're up to it. I urge you to really act through this Health Council, not to experiment anymore in Serbia and with specialization and professional exams. Often the lucid will of a member, here's what you do, leads us to an obscenity situation where we're going to have an unusual way of passing exams, and people may not get the right to end up with a profession and a license, if that state exam as I've heard it, it's a cultural story, but it's being told by people who are competent, it ends up with some testing and something that turns out that someone can't get their degree. Don't change the stalker stuff. We had a health system where we didn't pay, where people were released from payments, in which only those who give the most today, employees gave modest, symbolic participations. We had a good education system, we turned it into Bologna. We had a better judicial system, now everyone's correcting the judiciary. Don't go all the way to the end. We had what we had from the economy, sold in some weird privatization. So, save what you can save, even with these minimal amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we won't be in direct transmission from 13,40 hours, I suggest, or if you want Mrs. Travar by then, would you? Well, then I give my word to Mrs. Jeleni Travar-Miljević, and behind that we'll have a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58616	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, at the very beginning I would like to point out my personal satisfaction, as a member of the URS coming from the municipality of Zitiste, where 70% of the population is engaged in agriculture, from the part of Serbia where 50% of the population is engaged in agriculture, what you are hearing and what you will hear about the problems of these people and what you will do in that circle where you can improve the health care of farmers. In addition, I would like to point out that this is a law that needs to be improved, i.e. amend and supplement the said laws of patients and the achievement of one basic human right, which is the right to health care and health insurance. Certainly aware of the fact that public sector reform is one of the key challenges at the beginning of the second decade of social economic transition, I would like to point only to a few segments why I think these amendments and additions to the two laws should be supported. First of all, I think it is very good that the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget will provide funds to treat victims of domestic violence and victims of human trafficking. Why am I saying this? Because, as my esteemed colleague said, every other or third woman is a victim of domestic violence. Unfortunately, most victims of domestic violence are women, and then children. It is certainly important to commend the ministry's previous efforts and something in which there is a continuity, which is that there are rules on dealing with victims of domestic violence, that NGOs have also participated. The primary level of health care is educated healthcare professionals. Certainly, I welcome the fact that Minister Stankovic found it appropriate to frame this in legal form. In addition to the above, I must, unfortunately, mention that there is no unique record of the victims in Serbia, either the victims or the bully. It's certainly not part of the Ministry of Health. Once again, I welcome that what is part of the Ministry of Health and what the Ministry of Health can do does on this matter. I certainly must point out that there is a growing number of women victims of domestic violence in Serbia, so over the first six months of this year 29 women were killed, and throughout last year there were 32. Of those women who suffer domestic violence, about 20% are trying suicide. They certainly need health care. In addition, I would like to commend the introduction of a category of victims of human trafficking, because Serbia, unfortunately, is recognised as a country of both origin and transit and destination of human trafficking victims. The Office for Co-ordination of the Protection of Victims of Human Trade in the period from March 2004 to December 2010, identified 484 victims of human trafficking. Victims are mostly women and children, although in recent years that number has increased in men and that men are mostly victims of forced labour, and women of prostitution, and children of begging, forced adoption and committing crimes. Of course, I will commend the establishment of the Scanning Administration, because I think the Ministry of Health is finally making that legal possibility, which is that we are dealing with more and more prevention, that we are dealing with early detection of diseases, until there are real symptoms and that programmes that are already being implemented well in Serbia continue. What I would and would like to pay particular attention to, as someone who is an associate in health care, or a graduate engineer for the management of technical systems in medicine, is the introduction of an electronic health card, as part of the infrastructure for the introduction of a health information system. What I am certainly looking forward to is messages from the Ministry of Health, which say that the next year will end the information system concerning primary health care. Training and introduction of software into work in health homes and primary healthcare institutions and primary health care institutions of students and old persons, that will be done within the next year, of course with the support of the World Bank, if I have good information. Some, so far, have invested 1.2m euros in software and 5.1m euros in hardware. Of course, we have a lot of work to do to form a complete health information structure. In addition to networking of primary health institutions, we must also end with secondary, therapeutic and mutual networking. The electronic health card is something that needs to improve the lives of Serbian citizens, primarily the first cover will be tied to the choice of doctors, which is certainly good. We will also reduce the ranks of the Republic Health Insurance Office, because the overa will be done practically by means of machines. What matters anyway, that card will have a ten-year duration. I think these are enough reasons for all of us to think and support these two legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58617	I thank Mrs. Travar – Miljevic. So now we're gonna have a break by 15.00 hours. The next speaker is the folk MP Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58619	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, honourable presidents, respected ministers and associates, although there is no minister, today we are discussing a united debate, as you claim, that is, as the minister has claimed, very important changes and the addition of two system laws in the field of health care, the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. At an unfortunate time, in the middle of the summer, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted two draft laws to the National Assembly on July 14th, with a proposal to bring them through an emergency procedure. Your reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure are not in agreement with Article 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. I'll give you an example. It is about transitional and final provisions, which provide for a deadline for law-making. As far as the Health Protection Act is concerned, Articles 46 to 48 say the deadline for the adoption of these regulations is up to 12 months, and the Scanning Programmes Administration begins on 1 January 2013. As regards the Health Insurance Act, the transitional and final provisions, i.e. Article 51, says – the Republic Fund will coordinate the statutes and other general acts and will lay down rules for the implementation of this law by 1 January 2013. Where do you see the urgency here? Then why the emergency law? What are the amendments and additions to the laws that you adopt under the emergency procedure, which will eliminate the possibility of harmful consequences and the health care system? Does this mean that so far patients' rights have been compromised and that the organisation of a health care facility has been ineffective? Also, what's very interesting is that you suddenly amended over 100 members of the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, without public debate and without professional analysis of the public. You are now in a situation where you can also pass two new laws in the National Assembly, because by some regulations, if you change more than half of the members of the law, you have an obligation to pass new laws. Read, for example, Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, and you will see that in more than half of the members of the law, which has more than 256 members, the words "republic institution" are replaced by the words "republic fund", and the words: "district institution" are replaced by the words "districtary fund". These bill proposals, as unfortunately many previous ones, have been evidence since 2002 that the Ministry of Health is unable to deliver quality bill proposals to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In 2005, these two system laws were adopted despite strong resistance and lack of quality public debate. Professional organizations have also indicated that we will not get far with these laws. The SRS parliamentary group cannot support such text of the law, because they are the same and will not make a positive move in health care and health insurance reform. We therefore propose that these draft laws be withdrawn from the procedure, that they be completed in the next period and instructed again to parliament so that they can be discussed properly. In this way, MPs are put before the final act, that they cannot and that they do not have enough time to discuss quality laws that are very important to the citizens of Serbia. We believe that there are major problems in health care, which need to be discussed, and that these proposals do not touch these problems. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act does not regulate issues and problems that are important for Serbia's citizens' health care. No additional work or waiting lists is mentioned anywhere in the changes or additions. Such an attempt at reform produces great helplessness and fear among Serbian citizens, whose health care is very necessary. Now I'm only going to move on to some of the many proposed members of the law. We have talked about it and we will talk about it within the framework of the amendment, and I will only make key remarks and the problems I have seen in this law. I'll start with Article 4. The bill, which I consider to be irresponsible and inhumane, concerns the rights of patients who are entitled to access medical records. In particular, this article refers to children up to 15 years of age and provides that a child who has turned 15 years of age and who is able to reason, as well as to make decisions on his own, has the right to direct insight into his medical records, as well as the right to the confidentiality of all data contained in medical documentation. Prior to that, in the position of the 2nd member, you state: "In case the patient is a minor, the right to see medical records has a parent, guardian, or legal representative." This is one of the many confusions, contradictions and misunderstandings that follow the law. This member of the bill is very dangerous. How will you prove that a 15 - year - old child is capable of judgment, or self - decision - making? The only thing you'll agree to, I hope, Mr. Minister, is that it can determine an expert face by skill, and you know well how long the artisans last and what traumas they can leave on a child who's a warlock. This bill does not protect the dignity and integrity of children and does not guarantee everyone, without discrimination, respect for their integrity and other rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposal can be misused and the child declared incapable of judgment. On the other hand, a child with a form of addiction is usually able to reason, that is, on his own decision making, and decisions on the confidentiality of data, so that parents, guardians or legal counsel can prohibit insight into medical documentation, which can negatively affect the course of treatment and the outcome of the disease. Articles 5, 6 and 8 are also disputed. The bill, which refers to the rights of patients who are governed by the area of confidentiality of information. The possibility of abuse and its consequences cause great anxiety, so the question is how to effectively establish a limit in this direction and to limit and warn unwanted events? In these respects, the draft law does not pay attention to obtaining and giving consent in specific cases. They should be treated with increased attention, as it obliges specificity due to the fact that persons who do not have the necessary legal capacity to give legal consent. They are minors, disabled, permanently ill with incurable diseases and mentally impaired faces. Now that it's a short time, I don't want to talk about it anymore, I'm going to talk about it more in the course of the amendment. I can't help but look back at article 6 that defines the rights of patients under medical examination. In the opinion of the 4th member, it is specified that medical examination can be taken over minors, but only if this is of direct benefit to the health of a minor, with the written consent of his legal representative. The MPs of the SRS consider this change to be extremely inhuman. Mr. Minister, what is the direct benefit to the health of a minor? You didn't define that under this law, which leaves the possibility of a free appraisal. You also did not specify who estimated the benefit, and how much damage from a medical examination for a minor. New knowledge in biomedicine is constantly developing. This is mostly conditioned by the environment that these skills can be used on a minor. It is therefore necessary for these to be dealt with in more detail and in an appropriate manner. The nature of possible abuses is such that it could seriously endanger fundamental interests and rights of the child. You did not take into account the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Human Beings and the Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application of biology and medicine, the famous Convention of Ovid, adopted in this Parliament last year. The Convention undertakes to respect and protect the human essence of people in cases of conflicts with scientific achievements that would have the character of the abuse of knowledge in the field of biomedicine. We do not want to diminish the importance of science, nor to make progress and gain new knowledge. Now, what my colleagues were talking about, especially Mr. Paja Momchilov, is that, within this law, by forming a centre for rare diseases and by forming a screening program administration, there is an expansion of the activities that the Ministry of Health has and thus there is an increase in volume and number of employees. This law does not clearly define the tasks performed by the Director, does not clearly define the number of deputy directors, etc., which we will discuss more in the debate in particular. In Article 22, you form a regulatory body that you call a screening program management, as a body of the administration at the Ministry of Health. This body should be doing administrative work, but it's not. You allow this body to monitor science, coordinate in the design of national protocols, define quality indicators and criteria for accreditation of institutions, and that cannot be. In this way, professional and scientific affairs are introduced into the ministry by force. There was no public debate, so the profession could not be declared. This dislocation of science and management professions causes great dissatisfaction with the professional and academic public. We believe that in an unprecedented crisis, when the number of unemployed and poor is increased daily, this administration is not needed because there are already ten years of screening at all levels, and there is an office at Batut Institute. The SRS, in the end I can underline, will not support this law, we ask that these laws withdraw from the procedure, these laws are not realistic and will not do Serbia's citizens any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58620	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58621	The President-in-Office, president, respected members of the presidency, respected ministers and associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens who surely follow the transfer of the National Assembly, and health care is a subject that is always intrigued by the public and that is good, I will give myself the freedom to realize that today's debate, which is guided by these two laws of health protection, is something that is an example of how discussions should take place in the National Assembly, to be held at a cultural and academic level without mutual insult, and that is what raises the reputation of the National Assembly. Certainly, the theme of health care is something that is intriguing, for both the MPs and our citizens, and that, through the presentation of arguments and analysis of proposed legal solutions, every political party acting in this Parliament is expressing its political views and thus sending a message to its voters what it will stand for or what it thinks is wrong in the health policy. It is something that will certainly be the subject in the next election, not just during these congregation discussions. Today we have heard a beautiful opinion on these two legislative proposals from the fact that these two legislative proposals are bad, apocalyptic, and that they will bring bad, to those who have rather praised these two legislative proposals. As always, the truth is always somewhere in between. A large part of the opposition admitted that some of the life issues that occurred in the past had no adequate answers in the existing legal solutions and that they were now on the agenda. My assessment is that this law is not reformal, that it is necessary for life and that, according to some knowledge, there may be some more questions here, but the assessment of the ministry was that at this point they may not have enough capacity or resources to achieve them. Basic reasons, I would now refer to amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act which are the basic reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions. It is the creation of conditions for improving the rights relating to the health care of the most sensitive parts of our population. These are children under the age of 18, with the movement of the border from 15 to 18 years, which covers extended rights through the provision of access to medical records, i.e. the provision of the right to the privacy of children over 15 years of age. Also, the victims of domestic violence, as well as the victims of human trafficking, sufferers of severe illness. One section of the legislative changes refers to the promotion of the organisation of work of the Institute for Labour Medicine, which is essential for the territory of the Republic. By creating conditions to finance certain transactions of general interest from budget funds, which I think has been neglected in the past and has had some bad consequences for the work of medical work. Doing the work of screening programs at the level of the Republic of Serbia, detailing the tasks of the ethical boards of health institutions relating to the conduct of clinical studies of medicines and medical resources, a rather sensitive topic, my colleague has made an argument for clinical trials of drugs, I think it is good, to allow the approval of specializations that are disabled in the system and a clear plan and mechanism of implementing such a process, I think that is a good solution. All in all, one harmonisation of our regulations and compliance with the principles and principles of the World Health Organization in the area of patient rights, as well as European charters, recommendations and directives. If I was asked for the impression of the Health Protection Act, or in amendments to the law, my impression was the organization of the screening board. We heard different opinions here today about the problem. My view and the attitude of most of the colleagues with whom I have spoken is that this is an important issue that we have now dealt with quite well, but the positive effects of the way we have done so far are not visible. We have one problem that is visible, obvious and that carries with it clear figures, but the system has failed to give an answer to it and what we expect in the future from the screening administration, or from the activities that this administration needs to do, is that the situation related to chronic non-infectious mass diseases, primarily by referring to malignant diseases, which we have a high percentage of the disease and deaths of our population. Article 15 provides the legal basis for the doctor-elect to perform and perform screening activities in accordance with specific programmes that have been adopted in the relevant areas. Article 22 provides the legal basis for the establishment of a screening programme administration as some special organisational continent of the Ministry of Health. I think it's a formal thing and it's a non-important thing whether administration will be established as a special or organisational or some other whole, that it's essential what she's going to do, whether she'll be able to run certain mechanisms that exist in this health system and give it results. The reasons for the adoption are in the plan for developing the health care of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted. Priority areas are prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases that today's society is most burdened with. One of the goals set is to reduce the disease and premature death of malignant diseases, since malignancies following heart and blood vessels are the most common cause of the disease and death of people in our country. The prevention of malignancies is the most effective system and access to malignancies since more than 80% of all malignancies can be affected by preventing the onset of the disease, and if the disease occurs, it is possible to improve the outcome by early detection. The screening program administration will implement the National Programme "Serbia Against Cancer", which among other things is predicting and implementing the national early detection programme, as it is clearly said that everyone understands, the screning of cancer of uterus, breast cancer and colon cancer. So let me explain why it's my impression that this is the most important problem that is trying to define and solve these changes, I'm going to make some data that I'd like to explain. The plan is to examine 45% of women aged 45 to 69 years for breast cancer over the next fifth year, to examine 75% of women aged 25 to 69 years for uterus cancer, to carry out testing and reading tests on occult bleeding in 40% of men and women aged 50 to 70 years. The national programme for the prevention of breast cancer aims to detect breast cancer at the initial stage when it is possible to cure it. The target group is women aged 45 to 69, which is about 1,300 women. Since the review interval has been defined every two years, it is one large job since it implies delivery to the home address of calls for testing that involve clinical examination and mammography. The second program is a national programme for the prevention of uterus cancer. It also implies a very large activity because we have a much larger number of women who need to go through checks over the last five years. The screening interval is here every three years. This includes a population of women between 25 and 69 years of age, since there is a tendency that uterus cancer occurs at a much earlier age than in some past times. Here it is necessary to do very much to raise women's awareness of the importance of regular examinations, to define the role of institutions at all levels of health care, to strengthen the capacity of health institutions, to establish quality control services for the prevention of breast cancer. We have a national program to prevent colon cancer. It involves activities related to better informing the population about the importance of early detection of colon cancer, as well as better information than healthcare staff, healthcare professionals about the programme itself. All persons belonging to the target population of men and women 50 to 70 years of age under this programme, meaning around 45% of them, would need to receive a questionnaire and three test packets per year for bleeding from the chair. In the questionnaire, they would fill out the basic data relating to certain data that are relevant for further research and would do these three tests that reveal whether there is bleeding across the chair, which is the basis for further examinations that diagnose the existence of colon cancer. I'm a positive test does not mean the existence of cancer, since there are other diseases that can cause the presence of blood in the chair, but is one of the indicators that shows that the next diagnostic procedure should be done. I was pleased to be involved in a pilot project, related to the detection of colon cancer, which was carried out in five duchy places. The pilot project was run by Professor Guduric of the Institute of Oncology. He showed good results and I have people in my place who were thus diagnosed with colon cancer, who were operated and who were alive today and who wouldn't be alive. The project began five years ago and it is my pleasure that he was established today at a rational level and that is something that certainly gives results. What is certainly well accepted in our public, we were all aware of and saw in our midst, these are good actions that are implemented and with the help of media houses, such as B 92, the purchase of mobile mammograph. So something that, through the media and through raising awareness of the need for review and of the availability of this review, gives our fellow citizens motive to report to this review and to carry them out. However, this is not the way to solve the problem of malignancies. So something that's good and can trigger and raise awareness of the need for control, but what's our job is to introduce the fight against malignancies through the institutions of the system that we have, just raising capacities in this way. What is also important is given in Article 26, It is based on the establishment of a Republic expert commission to establish a guide to good practice. It's something we've discussed a lot on the Health Committee. I've heard a lot of debates from my colleagues, and we're discussing each other, so something we need. Mr. Milosavljevic, on another occasion, I have made one comment, that by forming a commission sometimes it is a joke that you are actually delaying solving the problem. I hope this will not be the case, too, or that this expert commission will take care of those guides. They're needed. So we have several guides, but we don't have everything necessary for the functioning and work of doctors in primary health care, which today is burdened with administrative procedures, and sometimes disabled by adequate education to monitor all modern knowledge and to know exactly what to do. I think that the more precise the definition of good practice guides, the more we will help the doctor to access and treat every patient, and the Republic Health Insurance Office, because in this way we will clearly define what and when to do and what procedures should be done in certain diseases, and thus indirectly reduce the costs of the Republic Health Services. We have a few other members I would like to mention, which my colleagues also referred to in the discussions. This is Article 31, where a legal basis is given for the possibility of certain deficits of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies being able to start specialising without two years of compulsory work experience according to a professional examination. Today's practice has shown that today's system is quite inert and there is no possibility of intervention by the minister and this is certainly a good move, as well as the obligation for those who have received a particular specialisation, deficitary and others to spend at least twice as much time in the work organisation that sent them in order for this measure to make sense in some way. My first reaction and one of the questions for the Ministry was – why it took a special provision for the screening administration to start working from 1 January 2013. When the material is read better, and when it is seen what needs to be done by the screening administration, it is clear that it takes a certain time, that it is a very extensive job, a very demanding job and responsibility is at the Ministry that in this period, it is also in the legal solution, that until the creation of the screening administration these jobs will be done by the Ministry, without these jobs being standing and waiting for 31 January 2013, because we do not have time to wait for it, it has already had to be in life and activity to do so. I'm sure we'll call you if it doesn't. I know you're not all-powerful, but I think the action accent and the activation of all these programs can and will certainly yield results. At first, he may act even in a way burdensome to the health system, because by detecting new diseases of patients who practically carry disease, and they do not know that they have, they will cost the Republic Institute, but by looking at the long-term we will get, first we will save many lives, secondly we will reduce directly and indirectly all the costs that these diseases bear with them in later treatment, if they are discovered in the second phase, when it is much harder to treat and sometimes impossible. As for the Health Insurance Act, or amendments to the Law, I would refer to two things. One thing is to extend certain rights to dental health care for certain categories of population to children aged 18 years or until the end of high school education, as well as to students until the end of their education, no later than 26 years of age. I have to say, we've had a lot of memos on the Health Committee. We've discussed this many times. We have all given support together to extend this dental health care and enable them to be free of charge, to the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. I am very glad that this initiative of ours is common forces, where we have been and what I can proudly point out both the position and the opposition and the Committee, we have had one common position that this is a proposal that needs to be passed and that the Ministry has accepted this proposal. We are also pleased that the right to escort insurance in the event of health protection outside the place of residence has been accepted and extended, for all categories of insured persons who do not have their own income, as this creates conditions for the achievement of health care on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds. What I think is the impression number two, relating to the Health Insurance Act, is the introduction of an electronic health card, not because of an electronic health card, but what should be in the package together. We expect the ministry to propose certain legal regulations and changes by the end of the year, or in the shortest time, all that needs to be done, to introduce an information health system into Serbian health. I was the director of the health care center, and I know what ails we had when the introduction of the information system began, related to the pharmacy service. After so many years of work, we see only good effects today, because we can sort out how many medications the doctor writes, what medications the patient spends, which drugs, means, there's one control, the possibility of control, and I think the minimum possibility of abuse that previously existed because of an inefficient control system. In the same way, due to better insight and ways of working and facilitating the work of doctors in the healthcare system, it is necessary to complete the information of the health system. We have information that the programme that financed this, that it should be completed by the end of this year, that the primary and hospital health care software is approved and that by the end of the year it should be. We have a promise from the last minister, and we have received a promise from this minister that it will be done by the end of the year. What we expect is the legal regulation of the conduct of the electronic chart and the overall medical documentation needed, so that we do not come into the situation that we now have in individual homes, which have a round-up information system at home health level that they have to keep double documentation, both in electronic form and in classical form, which is regulated by today's regulations. In this way, I think that we will create an assumption of better insight into how our health care works, how we are provided and what services are provided and that we will make it easier, above all, for doctors to work in primary and other health care, and indirectly reduce costs in healthcare, as explained by my colleague Dusan Milisavljevic. These legislative changes are certain that no radical changes have been made, but solutions have been proposed for some current problems that need to improve the quality of health care. What is new in the approach and I would like to commend the minister is a different relationship that exists both in the work of the committee itself and in collaboration with other organisations, in the chambers of health care professionals and NGOs, one more relaxed approach. We were pleased to hear the representatives of the chambers that their arguments and some of their proposals were respected and included in the legislation and that is what is positive and what needs to be nurtured in the future. Experience shows that certain painful cuts that must be made at the start of each government's mandate and that our health system must suffer more serious changes if we want to make it sustainable but efficient. It is evident that in the next term of office we are facing a major challenge and that this ministry should lead the one who has a clear vision and who is ready to make seemingly difficult moves, but who are long-term noble. There are questions to be answered as politicians – how much money it takes for health care and how it needs to be spent most rationally, and as citizens, how much we are willing to spend money on health care and how much we are willing to spend it rationally and solidly. As citizens, if we're healthy, we'll want to spend less money. That's logic. We're not so ready for solidarity. If we're, God forbid, we're willing to make a lot more money and we're ready for much more solidarity. It is therefore the duty of politics to find an environment between these two sides, to make an accurate assessment of how much money is needed and to ensure its rational use. The answer to this question will bear the votes of our fellow citizens, because the wrong question is that health care is free. It doesn't exist anywhere as free. Health care is paid, but healthcare must be rational, accessible and fair. That's the answer our fellow citizens are looking for. Whoever answers that question will get votes in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58622	I thank Mr. Martynski. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58623	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the law that is before us, as my fellow Members or colleagues from my parliamentary group have said, has certain improvements, cosmetics. We think it's some kind of maximum of this government and your ministry. Until health reform is essentially reformed, we must also be satisfied with these minimal improvements – better anything than nothing. Although the whole society, including health care, needs essential reform, but it will be when we make such changes that the money goes to where the patient goes, when health money is not for the maintenance of health care, but when in the first place there is a man, a patient and his interest, so if he's being treated with a privateer, that money goes there. This requires some more assumptions, and it will probably wait for a future government, I hope, such as a single health account, which does not exist, because there is an interest that does not exist, then a clear cost price list or services that cover mandatory health insurance, etc. Corruption is something that counterpart Judita Popovic was talking about, and it is a fundamental problem not only of health but of society as a whole. You know, if corruption means some kind of personal, group interest and it's a negation of public interest and general interest. For example, it has nothing to do with the subject, but if 25 villages in the pyrotic municipality, whether they're on the road or in the hills, everyone wants the highway to pass through the hills and not the valley, that the current road would remain as alternative, if 90 percent of the citizens of Piroth and Babusnica want it, and yet it is done otherwise, it means that some other interest is at stake. Yeah, it's probably corruption. I'm not saying, but probably. It's your fellow minister, given the circumstances of colleagues and by the education of orthopedics. If in some village of Radujevac, in a non-Kentin municipality someone rents a facility, a social institution, means an object, an inventory at 15 years, confirms that contract in court and starts providing services to, say, a nursing home and others, and the minister of labour and social protection does not want to issue a solution for months, nor does it want to change the FIB nor does the parent number of solutions to change ownership and suffer users of these services, but is concerned with who knows what, football clubs and asks to enter its party, it is the same example of corruption and party states. You know better than to spend a lot of money in health care. We don't even know how much money is spent. You remember in the 1990s, the health minister was driving in an armored vehicle with an armed escort. We also remember the suicides of some health ministers. After all, you're like the man who ran the VMA talking about your life being threatened by pharmacies and those who turn and control that kind of money. We remember one of the defence ministers who was killed, and yet he's tied to drugs. Simply, you inherited a man who served as minister in five governments. The result is that health care workers who work in health care on the lowest branches ever – corruption, all experience doctors as great thieves etc. It's the consequence of what was not only in these five governments, but also what I mentioned. That's where a citizen has to be put in the first place. When that happens, it will be a fundamental reform of health care. I know from your experience your patients have never complained, but we from the Minister of Health and Health Care are supposed to get to the Minister where there will be health and where citizens and patients will be at first. You know, if Majdanpek doesn't run a lab because it doesn't have a reagent and it won't work, so people have to go to Bora, if that X-ray doesn't work the same way in Majdanpek, which is what they call it, so people have to travel. This is basically a much bigger problem when compared to the fact that rights are being extended and that for medical reasons those who want to change the sex will now be able to do so on the cost of the fund. Look what an absurd thing it is. We can't solve this. It's a good thing the rights are spread on dental services and here when I'm talking about sex change, but these are absurd things that need to be solved and I guess they're easier to solve. Let's just say, in Negota's wife, she can't choose a gynecologist who'll follow her until birth because either one can follow her but the other can't give birth, and the other can't examine her because she's giving birth because it's all set up. So when a citizen puts himself in the first plan of the health system, then we'll be able to say that we did something, this is how all the cosmetics that can be made up but the problems remain. That's why it's often said that we've had great solutions, but they don't give results. I'd like these solutions to deliver results, but I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58624	I thank Ambassador Ostojić. The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third amendment to the Health Protection Act in this assembly, not counting amendments and additions to the laws relating to health and health systems, and they are subject to other laws, such as amendments to the Law on medicinal products and medical means and amendments to the Law on the chambers of health workers. Every time a need arises at the Ministry of Health to change and add a member to the existing law, we have an emergency procedure, which is not a normal legal state. When a law is passed by emergency procedure, we do not have time for quality discussion and this is the reason for frequent amendments and additions to the law, which increases the costs of the Assembly, through day-to-day discussions in principle and in particular. The reasons why some law is passed by emergency procedure are the circumstances that cannot be predicted, not the case here, but the government's manner, which becomes a rule in this mandate. Instead of offering us a law that is essential and reformal, which eliminates inefficiencies, irrationality and corruption, which is a burden on the health system, we have amendments to this law which provide an illusion of reform, and it has been carried out by quasi experts since 2002, since they have held the health care sector, according to the feudal distribution of resolutions and ministries. They did this improvistically without any prior strategy, creating confusion among doctors and among patients. To wander without the right strategy in the field of health care, evidence is common amendments to the Health Protection Act. The law does not provide precise answers to situations that occur in practice, but some new solutions are made that do not have a realistic assumption that they will come true. This ministry has been the most rigid in terms of the adoption of quality amendments by MPs, in previous amendments and additions, which essentially improve the text of the law by making it more precise. I can honestly and quite certainly say that almost no amendment to the opposition MPs, and especially the Serbian Radical Party, was never adopted when amendments to the Health Insurance Act were made to the agenda during the previous period. I understand, Mr. Minister, that it is not easy for you to correct the misdemeanors and all those criminal activities that took place in the health care center at the time of the ministry of Tomica Milosavljevic, who resigned for deep personal reasons, not referring to personal responsibility for such a situation. You've entered this circuit, I believe, to get out of it most, but what's there is, you've offered the MPs of this change that you think will in some sense improve these laws. The amendments have 48 members, who in part delete, mostly change some members of the existing law, which is added to them by submembers or several views, which means that the Health Protection Act is unspecified on the rights of patients who should be the epicenter of the conduct and interest of this law. You cite the reasons for bringing these changes, among other things, to create conditions for further improving patients' rights. These rights are that patients who are 15 years old, who are able to judge, or capable of making decisions on their own, have the right to see their medical records. In this regard, the term "business" is a questionable term to judge, i.e. capable of making decisions on its own. Who's estimating that? Young people under 18 are mentally immature and here I see the possibility of child abuse. Recently, the congregation passed the Youth Law. It includes youngsters from 15 to 30 years of age. I expected that young people from 26 to 30 years of age will also be covered by these amendments to the law and will have the right to health care, which the other youngsters from 18 to 26 have, if they are in regular schooling. So we have the Youth Act, and one part of them, these are people of 26 and 30 years of age, has no right to a mandatory form of health care. The state should in this respect have a demographic strategy, given the negative population growth. They should include young people up to 30 years of age through compulsory health care, whether they are insurance or not, as this population is in reproductive age. You did not include amendments to the Health Insurance Act, and you did not comply with the recently adopted Youth Act. How this Youth Act proved to be nothing but a declaration that does not oblige anyone and a mediocre literary paper, which we had the right, when we spoke in the debate, when the law was passed. Furthermore, what it represents for these changes as an improvement in patient rights - the right to confidentiality of information, the right to give up proposed treatment measures and in the course of the treatment process itself, the inability to perform medical examinations in children without the consent of guardians, unless it is in the function of improving health. I don't see any significant change here, because everything about minors needs parental consent, or guardianship. Then, the right to respect the right of patients to schedule examinations and diagnostic procedures. Nothing essential for patients. That's kind of what it's been up to now. What would really improve the improvement of patients' rights is to get health care at the right time, to extend the positive list of RRZO medicines, which they now call the Fund, then, to remove the list of waiting for reviews and treatment procedures, the releaser of doctors and unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and their greater commitment to patients, better staff policy in the field of specialisation and improvement of medical staff, the employment of unemployed doctors, better equipment for medical devices and instruments, better staff structure of health employees, etc. What you say as crucial in these changes is that you provide health care to victims of domestic violence, rare diseases and various social categories. In cases where they don't have health insurance, their treatment will be financed from the budget. I don't know if these rare diseases include those conditions and diseases for which they and their families often seek voluntary contributions to treatment abroad via the media, such as. some heart surgery, tissue and organ transplants, etc. What follows each amendment and addition of the Law is the establishment of some new administration and an increase in the state administration. So here you envisioned the establishment of a screening administration as a management body within the Ministry of Health, a special organisational continent based on a health care development plan adopted by the national strategy of 2008 and 2009 - Serbia against cancer. Will the establishment of this administration significantly reduce the number of patients suffering from this severe illness? Every year, the number of patients is increasing, although we have adopted a strategy – Serbia against cancer, the Scanning Office, at the Institute of Public Health Batut. The establishment of a screening board is a concentration of power in the ministry, not in the institution where it belongs. These changes are bypassed by members of the laws on supplementary work in health institutions, in which the same healthcare professionals and health associates are employed despite the promise of a new minister given to the Committee on Health and Family, that they will also think about it. Recently, the president of the European Anti-Fraud and Health Corruption Network, who noticed the main elements of systemic corruption in our health system, which could or could not see numerous organisations and individuals employed in health care, whose job, among other things, is to deal with the fight against corruption, is about 5,000. This gentleman named Paul Vinke said – in Serbia, a system of standard health care payment from the patient's budget is institutionalised, which I have not seen in any country. Serbia cannot become an EU member until it addresses the health care sector. He also said that the law requires conflict of interest, that state doctors are allowed to practice privately in state institutions through supplemental work. However, former Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic said in introducing additional work that it would achieve greater patient safety, that it would open up employment space for about 1,000 health workers, that these measures would encourage the best experts in this area to be kept in state institutions, and that is one way to eradicate healthcare corruption, etc. So, quite the opposite of the message given by the EU gentleman. The state of health in our system is far from orderly according to the needs of the population, but even less than the standards of the developed world. Not only can we not measure ourselves with the world, but we cannot even measure ourselves with some countries in our environment. The paradoxical situation is that health care stands out between 8%-11% of GDP, and the exact data has never been found out. The quality and availability of health services is far from what it should be, given the isolation. They are higher than in the EU countries, and there are health care allocations of 6.5%-9.5% of GDP. Health spent 16 billion euros between 2002 and 2010. It's just that amount that went through the RZO, not counting loans and donations. The data came from the EU, and it is hidden from the public and cannot be obtained from our authorities. In addition, there is no final budget account in a number of years to avoid seeing where and where the funds from various budget positions have been spent. Health status in a health system is measured both by the quality and size of a health institution. It is far from satisfactory to us, the more devastating it is compared to the previously mentioned funds invested in healthcare in the past period, during the management of the G17 Plus Health Ministry. Why is that? It's not hard to find an answer. The cause lies in corruption, the smallest social phenomenon that destroys every society and the richest. After that, we're highly quoted in the world. That corruption is both systemic and highly rooted in health care and you yourself have recognised as a Government when you were filling out the European Commission's EU candidate questionnaire, and these recognitions come from your friends from the EU, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank, of which you take credit for projects in health, which will pay off generations. The World Bank's 2006 report, for example, points to the corruption of government with consultants and foreign experts. In order to settle individuals and interest groups, first of all, one political party, which is achieved through installed tenders, renovations, construction works on healthcare facilities and in the purchase of expensive medical equipment with a mandatory percentage, of course. Legal and high corruption probably falls within the socially acceptable level of corruption. That such a thing exists was assured by the MPs of the DS when there was a debate here the other day about the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So the socially acceptable level of corruption is the modus vivendi in Serbia. For the ruling coalition, the existence of a socially acceptable level of corruption is allowed for us and most of the citizens are unbearable. This high corruption is only a controversial subject of police research, UBPOK and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. It represents a forest that can't be seen from wood, so-called wood. petty corruption which makes bribery to doctors or bribery by the same, which has been proven, which is most often from 100 to 500 euros. I don't even justify that petty corruption, but it can only bring damage to a single person's pocket and as such can't compromise the system to the extent that high corruption can do it. It is hidden behind the bombing titles of printed electronic media about a doctor who received a 200-euro bribe from a patient for a health service. This is how the public is clouded by corruption affairs, which have been many in health care over the past 10 years of democracy in Serbia. I'll remind you of some. The acquisitions of equipment to the Institute of Sremska Kamenica, where the first-degree court proceedings proved the guilt of the actors of this event, but the second-degree procedure was rejected. Has there been any political pressure on the court to show further events and affairs with waiting lists of radiation related to the facility? From a corrupt judiciary also highly quoted by corruption in our society, we cannot expect it to solve corruption in health care. Then, coded crabs and crabs two behind which cover the investigation of serious crimes against human health due to the spray with manufacturers and drug dealers, as well as the abuse of the official position of the head of the Oncological Institute. Then the affair about the reconstruction of the Health Center of the Students. About the reconstruction of the Serbian Clinical Centre, which is a special story because it is not even started in the midst of the lack of project documentation, the passage of deadlines, increasing the value of works, spent money for other purposes, etc., only some of the elements that should be addressed by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. Otherwise, another news item in the "Believe it or not" section is related to this clinical center. Serbia's clinic has no money to buy soap, so it is forced to apply for humanitarian aid for the purpose. If you're respected viewers and citizens who follow this transfer of the Assembly thought it was news from the hateful and dark '90s, you're mistaken. The news carries a date on July 16th 2011. There are still failed transfusiological reform projects. A similar situation with the Torlak Virological Institute, which once made vaccines for domestic use, even exported vaccines, and that was the time to remind me, when nothing was right in Serbia, so democracy came. Then the Yucit affair, where 33 ambulances were paid in advance, and none were delivered, etc. These are just some of the most important affairs related to this ministry, and counting others would require a multi-day assembly debate. As regards the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, there are many amended members who, because of compliance with other laws or European regulations, are legally regulated. There are changes you have marked as an extension of other persons' rights without health insurance. As you stated in your explanation, these are also changes that are not essential, but probably driven by the intention to talk about loyalty, not to talk about and write about affairs during the Ministerial of Tomica Milosavljevic, that they are forgotten, because elections are approaching, and the campaign has already begun. I would also refer to dental health care which has been constantly subject to restrictions on insurance rights since the adoption of the Health Protection Act in 2005, its amendments and additions, as well as the Health Insurance Act. The contribution to health insurance is not reduced although treatment, mouth and teeth are excluded from rights based on insurance for citizens, except for children and adults up to 26 years of age who are on education, pregnant women, over 65 years of age and some social categories. So we have a situation where citizens pay double, through insurance, and out of their own pocket for dental treatment. In the present state, after numerous experiments by reform experts in the area of dental health care, which is the first victim of such reforms, which I have the right to say since I've been working in that service for 25 years. We have a decimated and mutilated dental service in our health homes. Only a few dentists who work mainly in the children's and preventive dentistries with equipment and instruments that belong in the museum because some are 40 or 50 years old. Pulling at that maximum of your knowledge and abilities only thanks to your commitment to your work. In the EU, according to which you identify the number of dentists in state health to 100,000 inhabitants is at least three times higher than with us. The result of such a long-standing government relationship with the healthcare sector is that we get new generations of credentials who are now many and many, Mr. Minister, not only of Sojic's voters but also of others. So instead of slogans that Serbia does not have an alternative, the slogan is more appropriate, as a result of an expert health reform with Serbia's credentials in Europe than what. The RZO consistently increased revenue from 2004 to 2010. About 20 billion dinars every year. This resulted in 84 billion dinars in 2004 and 176 billion dinars in 2010. At the same time, with the extremely high growth of the RZO budget and the past period, we have a restrictions on the right to dental health care, and these changes provide an example that patients' rights are significantly improved in this area, which is not true. I work in that profession, so I know how it really is. The number of malignancies increases year after year, two-thirds of whom die. Also, they're on the rise and other chronic non-infectious diseases like cardio vascular and diabetes. There is no need to allocate money from the register of the Republic Institute for the Prevention and Treatment of These Diseases, although it is obvious that the money has a growing budget each year in the RZO. Serbia lacks fourteen radiation apparatus for cancer patients. The funds to be obtained represent a minimum amount of 50m euros compared to 15 billion spent on health care from 2002 to 2010 and therefore we have about 3500 cancer patients dying in Vojvodina without waiting for air therapy. There are also some newspapers in these amendments and additions, such as the change of the document to be carried out with a health card within three years of the entry into force of this law. This newspaper, it considers it has no assumption that it can be achieved within that time limit, given the experience we have with the replacement of passports or readers of chipped ID cards because no previous standards are created that they can be met. All in all, it would have been better if a new health insurance law had been passed instead of these 55 members who essentially reformed with the pluralism of health insurance as it exists in developed countries. It would allow for the right choice of doctors at all levels of health care throughout Serbia's territory with greater volume, content and quality of health services. Instead, we still have a national security monopoly as a generator for systemic corruption and optionally voluntary insurance for certain types of health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58626	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58627	Madam President, Mr. Minister, I will point out a few notes and take the opportunity to point out those facts that have been happening for a long time without the authorities doing anything. Mr. Minister, under the provisions of Article 29. The health care law of each patient has the right to a free choice of doctors of medicine, a doctor of dentistry and medical institutions. It's not like that in this country. The citizens of South Banat cannot exercise these rights to be treated, to choose a doctor in Belgrade or an institution, a health institution for reasons that between the Ministry of Health and the Regional Ministry of Health have no coordination and the Ministry of Health does not exercise control and control. Patients from southern Banat, Panchev, cannot get instructions to be treated in Belgrade. I've invested multiple amendments. I received formal answers, but it ended only in those answers, and practically citizens cannot get treatment from Panchev in Belgrade, but must, according to the doctor's instructions to go to Sremska Kamenica, to treat and receive chemo, which is 100km away. Pancevo is 15km away from Belgrade. Does it make sense? Isn't that discrimination? Isn't that a violation of the law? If the law determines that the ministry, first of all, regulates, monitors, controls and monitors, why the ministry does not.? Secondly, all citizens in this country have the right under the law to choose a doctor and a health care institution. Mr. Minister, when are you going to determine the Ministry's inspection to go to Panchevo to get an insight into the hospital in Panchevo and to temporarily shut down the internal department, because there are no conditions for patients being treated from the territory of South Banat? I ask you a question and ask you an answer whether or not you will, and if you will, when you will, and when the public will be informed, and when that humiliation will be experienced by the citizens of South Banat. In the rooms where the windows fall out, there's no inventory in the toilets. You know, if you go take a look, I believe you'll take some steps. But since it's the Serbian Health Ministry's jurisdiction, it's your jurisdiction, through the Ministry's inspector. I've been asking for this for a few years. The money from the province in Panchevo is not coming. Some side investments are being started, but they are not being completed. Please exercise control and do something to ensure that the citizens of Pancheva, who live in the most polluted city in Serbia, who most per cent of the population in relation to the number of cities suffer from cancers and something in this direction really needs to be done. To expect from you, health reform has just begun, this is only the first step, which can be expected. This in health care is primarily anarchy. You've been reporting lately and reacting to certain irregularities, certain failures, reacting to crime, reacting to corruption, etc. Will you, Mr. Minister, initiate an initiative to remove the doctor's additional work? That's what the former minister managed to do, introduce that they could work at state health institutions, and also work in private offices this afternoon. It's a crime. It's corruption. And until you end it by law, you're free to talk and work hard and talk about corruption, corruption should be prevented by passing a new law. Without that, you won't succeed. Mr. Minister, when will you and will you, do you intend to end this stupid, reckless, pointless administration and excess in health care? Did you know that when citizens go to ask for one prescription, they spend all morning at the doctor's, they check for two hours while the nurses write them that medical records. Sometimes during that regime, where many complain, a citizen could go to a health care facility and perform a review in one day and get results. He can't do that today. Health care has over 100,000 employees. There's a lot of administration, a lot of time. You don't have pediatricians in places where there are more than five or ten thousand residents. Here, the former minister has managed to provide private practice to be done in this way, as it is. That's what you have to stop, so they can't work there and here anymore, so the counters can't. If I were a minister, I'd either resign, or I'd file a motion to amend the law. You have a responsibility. You citizens expect a lot. They expect citizens to take appropriate measures. It's not enough for you to come to the paper and say, "He's staying and staying, I can't fight it." I've got to deal with how I know and know, and I've got to put up with the government's initiative. Let the government refuse, and then I'll let the public know. If the government won't listen to something that's actually effective, in the interest of the citizens, I'm resigning and I'm not going to work in that government, because it's in my citizens' interest. Is that right? I think I'm right. Mr. Minister, it's high time for these laws you're proposing to be too, they're huge norms. When you have a member who has two pages, it's a novel, it's not a legal norm. The legal norm must be brief and clear. See the applicable law in Articles 92, 148a, 168a, 184, 198a and 198b. So these are novels. In health care, you can only make order if you have a good will. The SRS believes, and you have heard from the chairman of the Health Committee, Mr. Paia Momchilov, what it tells you and what the MPs of the SRS have indicated to you. You won't be able to expect it critically from the ruling coalition's MPs. They can't criticize you. They're in the coalition, and in fact they're supposed to be these people who are critical, not critical, not critical, but critical of what needs to be changed. It was a miracle, we had a health minister who was supposed to retire as a health minister. That's why ministers need to be changed, to change governments. The Italians have changed 68 governments so far and therefore live better, 100 times than Serbian citizens do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58628	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58629	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, as SPO MP, I will try to give our view of these two legislative proposals and, of course, to give our assessment of the situation in the health care sector, and what should be done in our assessment. In doing so, of course, I will try to rise to some pedestal of maximum objectivity and good intentions. It is certain that these two legislative proposals will receive the congregation’s majority, they are good. The aim of the promoter is good, but, of course, it is certain that they will not solve all the problems that burden the health system, as well as many other systems in our country. This is a good follow-up to the health reform and the fact that we have entered into the system from one chaos and that some 13.5 billion euros has been invested in the health system, I would agree with some critical considerations about the state of our health, this is an indication that reforms must continue and, of course, with investments in the health system. We are also fully aware that all of this will depend on the general state policy and on whether and when we will become members of the UN and whether we will become a fully organised and economically rich society. Some colleagues have said well, of course, we all know, we have good intentions of what we would do and what appliances we would buy, in order to adequately pay for the expertise and expertise that Serbia has in all areas of Serbia, but the economic and general state of the state is what it is, and the cost of all this is paid and the health system. You mentioned in the opening statement that a number of preventive measures are being taken, which is, of course, good, to prevent and to the maximum extent possible in time to recognise diseases of cardiovascular systems and heart disease, by which we are predominant in Europe, and malignancies. They are, above all, based on all analyses and indicators of two underlying causes of mortality. However, it seems to me that the third opinion that suggests that people who deal with panatology and determine the causes of premature deaths come to the conclusion that life, habit, diet, permanent stress exposure, etc., perhaps a more dominant cause of mortality than these two who, I say, are generally accepted. In any case, for our society, it can be said that this is because we are really a society that survived the great trauma. The very fact that we are in terms of antidepressants among the leading nations in the world by the amount of per capita benefit per year, and the data has almost been released and that we may be among the leading users in Europe, are indeed sufficient indicators that our population is in a truly unfavourable state. That's why the SPO, I'm going to repeat it a thousand times, an integral part of this government, because we think that this government and this country are going in the right direction and that, of course, everything that has been talked about today, which is problems in the health system, we must first and foremost solve. I can really say that while you were running the Military Medical Academy, while you were Minister of Defense and now as Minister of Health, all your moves we from the SPO recognized as the moves of a man with good intentions. You're not being dragged into a corruption affair. You respond in time with statements and taking measures from your jurisdiction, but the public needs to know that there is much to both the judiciary and the police and other services and among the citizens themselves. I'm still going to say something very important. Now the position of both the MPs and the position of the health workers, particularly the doctor, is similar. This is the result of a general campaign against these two institutions. I've pointed out a lot of the corruption in healthcare in this high house myself, but I want to say something. She's not the rule, she's the exception. It's true she caught all the health care pores. It is also true that many doctors are subject to corruption. But only if any of the MPs, who says that general corruption is in health care, one day or seven days spent in some medical institution or attended complex operations, whether it's a cardiovascular operation or a neurosurgery operation, etc., would he really give a medal for knowledge and courage to doctors who perform five, six or seven operations daily and who know that they spend in operating halls at 13-14 hours, which is why they're not adequately paid. Then, in our health system, drivers and cooks and cleaning women, security people, car drivers, people who maintain technique, who are certainly not corrupt, are neither at risk nor want to be corrupt. Then, in small towns, extremely professional and valuable doctors and medical staff work. Of course, in small places, you can't be so easy to ask for money or something against service, because it's going to get out real soon. Unfortunately, where the most difficult cases are, such as a famous affair with cytostatics or other important medical institutions, where indeed life is in the hands of doctors who are often exceptional specialists and scientists from their field of expertise, is about corruption and the greatest. I think it will be in the interest of everyone, both the Ministry of Health and the State and this Government and the People's MPs and citizens, to deal with that minority as soon as possible and to put an end to that story. The second thing I want to say to my opposition friends, it is mentioned here that now as a condition in the health system, it is worse than the condition that existed while some others exercised power. By the age of 90, it should still be reminded in a few sentences, the drugs were bought on flea markets, mostly from China, of suspicious origin. Glasses, or dioptria, were determined by sellers at flea markets. The doctors wanted to bandage your wound or give you an injection if you brought a bandage and gauze and if you brought an injection. One health minister bought an island near Budva, and it was indeed a time for the criminalization of the entire society. Of course the consequences of all that are felt today. Of course it's a lot of things today. The law says in good faith the patient's time will be respected, but indeed patients are greatly harassed, and with waiting lists. An example from Kragujevac is mentioned where the patient was scheduled for knee surgery in 2024. All of us as MPs daily receive a lot of requests from citizens that if we can, with our influence, try to get on the waiting list as soon as possible for heart surgery, for angiography, for the installation of an artificial hip, for implantation, etc. In that part, these are burning problems, it's a beautiful norm that patients' rights will be respected and there really are health institutions. I'll give you some great examples. Let's say, the Paster Eye Diseases Clinic, in the morning when you get here, it's crowded, the halls are full, and already at 10.00 a.m., everyone's at their doctors', and already at 12:00 to 12.30 a.m., there's no one here. This means that the services are well organized or that the people who operate these facilities rightly organized their services and that the rights of patients in terms of little waiting are maximum protection. What is most important to me, and we are all in a position to contact health care professionals very often, and each of us has someone who has either been in the hospital or we have been, this ethical relationship doctor – the patient and the people who are dealing with this problem themselves say that the patient is often more important to this ethical approach, that mild word, that nice reception and the patient is feeling better right away. By the way, if the doctor still hides something that's particularly unfavourable for the patient, which is perfectly normal and in the spirit of ethical behavior, if he tells him a few nice words that seem dying, the patient feels that he's in safe hands, that he's in a good institution and he's automatically feeling better, without getting therapy. Contrary to behaviour, the em man is poor, the em is health-threatening, he comes to a doctor who acts like a cabman who is arrogant, who treats him like he's not a human being, a patient in desperate condition anyway, of course, after that feels even worse. What's good, and what's in your hands again, Minister, is that you're pushing now, because it's deficiting personnel, means anesthesiologists, radiologists, neurologists, etc. to shorten the procedure for getting specialization, that those years of specialization take less time. Since you're going to settle it with sublegal regulations, I'm going to ask you that, since, for example, while these were connected branches of medicine, that neuropsychiatric specialization once lasted three years, that it's five years now, I think we need to find an appropriate deadline, if we really want that deficit when it's no longer disabled, and if we want to replace the missing number of personnel as soon as possible. It really needs to imagine the life situation in which a girl in 24-25 graduated medical school, so she's two years old, and then she's been specializing for six years, and she's asking the question of her personal life -- when she can get married, have children, start a family, etc. Of course, all specialists will be regularly perfected, that tomorrow as specialists they will work with colleagues who are also specialists. Of course, all knowledge will never be obtained during the specialization and that is one process that lasts. That's why I'd like you to give this question to me, I think, the attention it needs. As far as agricultural producers are concerned, I think the solution offered in this bill is acceptable, because if the farmer can, in addition to members of the family household, on the basis of payment for his own health insurance, provide health books and other members of the family household, and even now brothers and sisters, I think it is a significant improvement. Of course, we from the SPO in every discussion that is touched in any way by farmers pointed to the difficult position of farmers, who really have a very difficult life. Agriculture, the way it is, no matter what the last few years have invested in agriculture, not enough for us, it's still our biggest export branch, but if we really want agriculture to be our strategic branch, so even this way, it's a good measure that you've taken, and I think that all future moves should take care of all of this. What's also good, sometimes people who wanted better quality and greater treatment than those who provided state institutions or if they wanted better implants or orthopaedic aids, they couldn't get a cash amount to the amount that the Health Insurance Institute recognised. Now it's a good thing the Health Insurance Office will replace that amount, and whoever wants a really higher quality of service is able to pay for it and that's something that's really an extraordinary measure. It is a good measure that emergency medical care will be provided to persons with an unknown residence. I don't think that was the case until now. I've never heard of emergency medical doctors not providing someone with this kind of service, but it's good that this is in law and the people who do it in some other way. I will also remind you that up until 10 years ago, many major cities did not have basic medical instruments. Let's say the town of Chachak didn't have a scanner, the Kragujevac didn't have a magnetic resonance. We have heard today that there are, of course, many medical devices still missing, but what the public was almost aware of was that one of our famous clinics was missing about 20 incubators for a premature baby and that this clinic was seeking help from donors. I know that budgets are the way they are, that you have exactly the kind of means that we have here, but it's unacceptable that in conditions where we run a campaign to increase the birth rate, to fight the white plague, that a serious health institution is asking for help, for charity, for businessmen without the state being able to solve it. You had to solve this within 24 hours. Extraordinary budgets, you were supposed to bring that to the government, and then you'd make a really great move. Please, in a similar situation in the future, don't let God repeat it, but given how many medical devices we lack in many health institutions, it is certain that there will be such situations that you will respond immediately and believe me that you will have general support from all sides. Where do we get the shots? The state invests a lot in human resources, people invest a lot in themselves, and when they don't have a job or are not adequately paid here, if they don't have money and funds to open private practice, they go to EU and US countries most often. For what? Because that's where the health systems are arranged, because they're adequately paid there. They didn't go to Iraq to Saddam Hussein or Afghanistan to see the Taliban, Libya to Gaddafi, or to a country most often said to be our mother, and our mother often left us behind. It is a strong message, which is why the SPO fully supports Serbia's European path and Euro-Atlantic integration. I think it's a good idea to form this, after the electronic health book, a unique information system, based on which you will be able to take many steps. Of course, in addition to statistical indicators that will be significant for the overall health system, you will be able to monitor how doctors, to what extent and to which therapy are determined and which costs go unwarrantedly to some expenditures that are not justified. Every time you come to the House of the People's Assembly with such good suggestions, you will have the full support of SPO MPs, but also, always, as I was saying today, it seems open to me about our assessment of the situation in the health system, you will have our assessment of the situation in really best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58630	National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58631	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, on the information I received from the media, then on the Committee on Health and Family Care and on several doctors, nurses and patients, I will now think a little bit more aloud, and a little less of addressing you personally, because all the regrets are more about your president than they are about you, since you are only three or four months minister. I'm going to laminate a little over the fate of Serbian health care. The environment in which amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act are brought is really difficult. Maybe this word is "hard," to say too weak. You are performing with the thesis that it is better to make changes and amendments to the law now, and when the new minister arrives, he will have a full mandate and make a new law. That's quite disputable, Mr. Minister. You'll have a term of a year and a half, and maybe your predecessor won't have three months, maybe six months, and that's still less than you have. Anything can happen, governments fall, ministers change and, therefore, I don't think it matters the length of the mandate, but the quality of the law and the need for it to be passed as soon as possible. If the law is good, he will testify for himself, and the rules and standards that should protect him, protect him, and allow him to wave and enforce himself. What you said, it's like having a big fire in one big forest and you say, "We're not going to put out a big fire, we're going to put something like that out of the end," so since there's only two more hours of my fire-extinguishing shift, when the next shift comes, eight o'clock, then let it crash and put out that big fire. I think we should do both. The situation in health care is really difficult. For the past 10 years, the rule of your predecessor has nothing to do with us. I don't think the tsunami has hit us yet. There are indeed countless affairs, and only individuals were in the investigation. The fingers of one hand can be counted by those who are truly condemned. Some affairs last years and they don't end. There are professional chambers, then several times mentioned Sremska Kamenica, problems with radiation lists, foreign and domestic citizens, mobing and judicial processes that are also going on there in the institution, the illicit co-operation of the chiefs of services with pharmaceutical houses, systemic corruption, the exploitation of state institutions for the purpose of getting patients and taking them to private clinics for private work, even in the third shift. Then there are various investigations: Kraba one, Kraba two, and various other crabs. Not to mention the vaccine that was bought to a much greater extent and most expensively paid, and nobody answered. Because of all this and a lot of others, we're more than skeptical that they can only help us change and supplement the law. You know, Mr. Minister, this people have been bit by a lot of snakes. When we get rainworms, not lizards, we're already in some kind of fear. Even when they say it's California, it's panic. I will list some examples, just before mentioned – this technological progress, etc. We are really not against this technological progress, but the mention of this electronic chart in this era and in this state of our mind and our spirit, that we do not have almost any security culture, that we are extremely subjective to others, that it is very easy to buy some people, and on the other hand we are witnesses that some institutions like CIA, NASA, cannot protect their systems – how are we going to protect our systems? So it's not going to fall electronics, it's going to be human. You hire some nurse in America, give her two thousand dollars' salary, and she'll open your computer somewhere in some neighborhood somewhere, i.e. Her computer, no problem. And we're witnessing organ trafficking, etc. When the donor cards start, so when these hyenas start around to track how healthy they are, how sick and which organ can be transplanted, it'll be such an industrial-medical spying that they won't be equal. Maybe the examples I'm about to make now are going to sound a little ghastly, but believe me, they make a certain sense. And Dr. Mengele was a doctor. And Colonel Ishi was a doctor, he even finished his medicine in London, the famous commander of the notorious Japanese 731 unit that did a lot of experiments, etc. After all, none of them responded, of these Ishis, but was transferred through American intelligence services to America and there he worked in the profession. He died of throat cancer only in 1953. So, I was going to say next. If there are no clear rules, good law, but also standards to which they are implemented, many people, no matter what professions, or even these humanistic ones, will kneel before certain offers and blackmails. Because you can see the examples of our practice: a surgeon in the KBC in Belgrade takes a notebook of how much money he has received and how much money he will receive from already agreed operations; another asked for 450 euros from a patient, according to her testimony, he said – you won't need it in the future. So, I'm talking about this moment, this psychological and physical abuse of patients. These in Kragujevac are scheduled for surgery in 15 years. Who's got knee and hip problems? The ones of 20 or the ones of 80? How did we receive an 80-year-old patient and tell him – come in 15 years for surgery? We may not have a state in 15 years, let alone a hospital, and he will certainly not be alive so ill. What hope do we give him? Nothing. Malten, he's about to euthanasia here over him. That's really amazing. There's no education, no morals, no ethics. Then we're surprised when patients at the door don't say – good day Doctor, but – where are you thieves and when some less educated patients bump into medical staff. So, because of these examples, we can't protect the good ones and we can't protect the great ones, and we bring some cosmetic changes and additions, we take out the pre-election years, to the next mandates, etc. If you do not take any more serious steps, you will have to make maximum use of your specialty to determine what our health care has died of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58632	The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58633	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, two laws are very important to us. Unfortunately, we must conclude that the health system in the Republic of Serbia is expensive, trom, indeterminate, inefficient. Why is it expensive? I'm going to list just a few data that we managed to get from the SRS from the health ministry websites of the Republic Health Insurance Office. In fact, only for the administration of the Republic Health Insurance Office, tomorrow it will be a fund, 50m euros is allocated. In the Ministry of Health over 10m euros, over 11m euros are spent in various agencies, administrations, institutions, services and other state institutions dealing with health, treatment, etc. – 71m euros goes to administration only every year, service and administration, material, immaterial costs in the administration. We are not talking about the health and treatment system, because this is about hundreds of millions of euros. What's the SRS' position? A unique health account, he handles it, a unique health care service that will carry out all administrative, technical and all other health services. It must be a compact system, only he can guarantee cheap, fast and quality health care service. It must be one service that will be operational, fast, and on the other hand cheap. When we talk about financing health care, we have to say that in the last seven or eight years, he has made significant progress in the inflow of funds into health funds. I will show these figures here with several data: public sources in 2003 – 66 billion dinars; 2005 – 100 billion dinars; 2008 – 170 billion dinars; 2011 – 211 billion dinars. So in these eight years, with 66 billion public sources, that amount has risen to 211, which is an increase of 310%. When we talk about private sources, 2003 starts with 28 billion. With this year, or 2010. - 124 billion, which is an increase of 440% compared to the base year 2003. We had here by the ex of the minister, Mr Milosavljevic, the data that is not unique as it should be, etc. This data tells us that the truth is on the other side. When we talk about participation in a gross social product, then we also see an increase compared to 2003, when the participation was 8.7, it's going to be 10.1 this year. Compared to all European countries, because we make parallels and generally say that we are lagging behind, we see that we are not lagging behind here. We're all the way above the European average. We're at the US level by isolation, and that's after this greatest health history reform in the world. They're now climbing this level that we're on today. Where's the money then? Minister, you must, when you came to this post you said you'd solve the issue of health crime. So far, you've done your job with honor, you've been to the most responsible, where no one wanted to, you've answered, this is for your challenge. It is your moral obligation to come out of all this the way you entered it, morally and honestly, but in an open fight with crime. Who's going to help you with that? Almost no one. Just you and your service, first clean up the service around you, then clean up your health. It's a condition of the fight against crime. Those who have participated so far will have a hard time helping you, because they are dirty and fat, especially in health care. Not only are you told by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, all of the world's agencies dealing with the fight against crime say that in Serbia, health crime is the biggest. Look, we've created a social mile where there's no condemnation of taking gifts to a doctor. In 95% of cases when a man says - I have to buy a gift to a doctor, that's understood. There is no opposite opposition for anyone to say, who has heard that sentence of yours, to say – it is not convenient, etc. It's not that, it's our accident, but we must all get together as a society, because you can't fight for this short period, but what you found in the books, in the health ministry balances and what you found in the Republic Institute, there you can fight and there you have the maximum support of our party. When we talk about the overall participation of public and private incomes, we come up with this 10%. However, we must point out that there have been other separations in the past few years, so that the percentage increases to 12%. If we add a gray market that is very accessible, you know very well that health, medical and all other services, including pharmacies, medicines, etc. are bought on the gray market, that is about 3%. We can find that on your websites, too. So, a total of 15 percent of society stands out for health care. It's a huge asset. For the sake of time, just one more request. I have to apostrophe the problem of refugees, internally displaced faces, but especially here now around refugees. In refugee status today there are 80s and a few thousand people, but so far there have been hundreds of thousands of people who have come out of that status, only 5% of that population for, 95% is without any income, no existence whatsoever. They can't look alike. This is where the state has to help. There must be primary state protection and other forms of protection so strong as to help this population, because without it we will have a maimed people. They were once mutilated when they had to leave their hearths, come to these places. You must speak openly with both the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and in Kosovo, and Albania, and particularly with the international institutions that must help in this situation, because we are expelled, because we are threatened, because we are without existence and the possibility of moving normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58634	National MP Pai Momchilov, since Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidents, Mr Ministers and other co-workers from the Ministry today, we are slowly bringing down this debate and I think we of the SRS have given enough arguments to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that we are still looking for a firm stay in order to withdraw these laws from the procedure. We said, for historical reasons, that we should not embarrass the laws that we are talking about today, which are in Copenhagen, we said because there is no respect for the legal procedure of a civilised country, where the system law must go through a public debate, we said that it is not allowed and that it is inappropriate that when I read here a business provision, it is the reason for the regulation, and within them it is said – especially an analysis of the current conditions. I'm asking you to give us an analysis of the current situation. I don't get the answer, that it's the duty of someone who's leading the Assembly to return such a proposal, that I'm told that I'm an extremely misunderstanding of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not very smart, I'm not that stupid, but I can still understand the Rules of Procedure. When we say that by an emergency procedure, as Dr. Paunovic said, the Rules of Procedure said that we are being treated and we are not getting an answer, and then we quoted what you have told us in the transitional provisions – in two or more years you will be applying this, and you say it is urgent. There's no answer. My friend Buha told you nicely – you should have given us the bill, how much it would cost. According to our calculations, we've also asked experts what they think of this as an option to everyone, how much health care will cost now. They said, at least 40% higher. You don't have that money despite the cost, we've proven to you, enormously growing and investing in health care by the citizens, at this point the citizens are taking 37% of the total health spending. You say it openly -- it's not going to budget us for this million and 200, we're going to keep taking citizens out of our pockets, we're going to raise to 50%. But then there's no free health care, as someone thinks they can. They tell us from past times, in times past, the mortality of babies has fallen. We've come today to rise since 2009. We say it's worse, we say it's based on facts, based on indicators. Now I don't want to read you those numbers, let someone say they're not true. We have a paradoxical situation, so far as we're concerned. We have come, we have heard, not allowed to mix foreigners who allow and do not allow the adoption of Serbian laws. I have a letter from 2006, signed by Rahard Pribe and he says – the laws concerning the health care system were neither the subject of technical or any other involvement of a foreign factor. That's how far you've come to tell us that strangers are allowing you something or not. We heard it yesterday on the Committee, a colleague from the Chamber of Commerce says, "We have suggested something, and then we hear -- well, we were not given by strangers." What are we? What do strangers want from us? Sanctions, wars, torture, destroying the life of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, killing him. Such a patronate and allowing such laws to be passed directly affects the health potential of our people. We are patriots and you have good intentions and desires, surely most of you, but we cannot, like such intellectuals, as such, patriots, patriots, to bear this. We will not raise our hands for this, and we tell the citizens and we stand firm that this is not in the interest of health and citizens. This is what no European country will allow. A member who enters, so there are two sides, we'll prove to you, of course, you won't accept it, how they were, how all the nebuloses were put there. You'll see, we'll go from member to member, so you'll see what kind of all and logical mistakes there are, what kind of nebuloses there are. I see, there's some other parallel session, of my colleagues who often call us that time. In those times, the mortality didn't go like this, in those times, it was bought on a flea market, but in those times, a state health secretary provided a son with a 105 square-square apartment from the state contingent. He's negotiating something for us today. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia, this is the smoke firecracker of the pre-election one who promised the IT centre in Indjia, the one who promised 1,000 euros of action and know there is nothing else behind it. Mr. Minister made it clear - I cannot fight corruption, I am powerless. Of course, he can't. He said another thing - no system changes. So they're not touched by system-based corrupt members of the law and therefore, this is one colourful lie and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58636	Thank you, gentlemen of the Parliament. There is no time left for those who may have wanted to speak, so I give the word to Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58637	Let me thank all of you who attended this debate today for your efforts and your desire to amend the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. My personal impression is that the discussion went very correctly and professionally and maintained one level that parliament deserves anyway. I am in a position to act as you did today, and I will act and tell you that what we have suggested from the discussion of everyone I have listened to is that we are on the right track, that the proposed solutions are something that is good for the citizens of Serbia and that these solutions will improve the functioning of health services, be better for patients and contribute that in the coming period we can expect better health care by voting these amendments and supplements. There's been a lot of words and now I have all these answers you've been looking for. Some people did not have the opportunity to attend the next session and are not there, so I would not want to answer each of the questions in detail now, but at the same time I want to say that during the work Wednesday, we will answer during the amendments to each of these questions, since I expect that there will be a significant number of people present in the hall. What I particularly want to point out and what caused the discussion is farmers, it is health care that provides for certain improvements, and it is not true that in the next period we will have a situation for each member of the agricultural household, who has 0.5 hectares, to pay health care by 21 or 27 000, given that we have discussed this in the Assembly two days ago and on the Committee on Health and Talk with those delegates of the Assembly in detail what the member contains and how it is an official interpretation and how it will be and how we are prepared to propose, together with them, the addition of this article, the amendment that they have accepted. At the same time, there were a number of questions as to how many, for example, a farmer pays 2010 dinars for health insurance, and about 25 thousand dinars a year. In the agricultural household there are average two members, so it is much less than the average worker pays from his salary. If we take into account the fact that these people have children, they are mostly provided on a special basis, so they are not paid, they are already provided as students or as people who are waiting for work on the work desk. There were other stories here, how much it would cost to destroy the vaccines, so there's a lot of large sums out there. Let me tell you, destroying the remaining vaccines will cost 33.5 thousand euros. Whether it's small or much, I don't want to elementize it, in our situation, and that's a lot, but I don't know how many tens of times less than what's out there. Certain activities are expressed, i.e. certain reserves, even when it comes to death rates. I have this information and I can discuss it, but we'll talk about it when they're amended. What I'm particularly concerned about here is one fear of a number of people who sees everything black and who propose – we're not going to do anything. For example, Nikola Pasic said – there is no salvation, but we will not fail. I'm telling you, we have big problems, but as a health system, we're going to try and most likely manage to get through all these difficulties working day and night, talking to all the factors of this society, accepting any suggestion that is welcome, but waiting and doing nothing in my opinion is irresponsible. So we have to go towards problems, and with these bill proposals, we're going towards problems, we're going to solve them in the legal way. What does that mean? I don't want to vote? You don't have to, but how do we explain these people who need protection? Come on, explain, 14,000 students signed a petition to repair dental services. Tell them what you write, it doesn't matter, we won't do it. Explain how to provide the future and provide specialists with doctors during the next period and wait to provide specialists every day when we go out in the paper to miss anesthesiologists, pathologists, radiologists and other specialists. Should we wait or solve? What's the time and when you say I don't know when to wait? It's something that requires, the problems we've been talking about, an emergency resolution, and that's why bringing these changes into urgent action. When you're giving me some facts and you're quoting me, then quote me to the end, and don't take something out of the quote that you think and what you're showing as a weakness. Here, I don't have the strength, I don't have the solutions to corruption or I don't know what else. When I'm suggested by doctors against corruption, I'll tell you one thing, I accept everything they say, but I'm willing to check it all out. Don't when that doctor who teaches me a lesson in the first threat resigns to an important state post, and I didn't resign, I fought until the end, and I wrote in the NIN. I've had four security rings for four years, the worst period of my life. Today I've heard from some people, do you think the President of the Assembly is thrilled to be followed by a number of people and concerned about her safety and that she's unusually happy that she can't walk the city now, etc? I've fought all my life. My associates are now making every effort to get some results along with me. We already have that, but we don't want to go out and in some way destroy someone's career like we did in some previous period, and after that, dust the dots, I'm sorry, we were joking. If I don't want it for myself, I don't want it for anyone else. And in that case, if someone comes out here and brings it out, I don't know, I can't do it alone, as an individual. The health department can't just do it, but we can do it together and that's what I said. We can't do this alone, but together with the police, the judiciary, the prosecution, with the citizens, we can fight corruption. I can ask some very unpleasant questions that are mentioned here, and some groups, see who works, where he works, what he does, whether he comes to work or doesn't come to work. But first of all, the patient in Serbia is something that has to be given a lot more attention, a lot more to give him the funds and a lot to do. Patients from South Banat spoke with them with Prime Minister Pajtic. Prime Minister Pajtic said -- there are no problems, Attila Cengeri said the same thing, and people get directions for treatment in Belgrade. If there are exceptions, we're here to solve them together. When someone goes public before they let us know. Here today there have been criticisms against some health institutions, but they have not said that these health institutions have 43 extra workers. We're trying now and we're making preconditions and conditions to move that surplus to where there's a shortage. Why hasn't it been done or why some things haven't been done in some past period? They can't just be the fruit of the Ministry of Health's observation. Where were we all who had opportunities, but also the obligation to do something about it? When am I going to shut down the hospital in Panchev? We have a lot of institutions that we can close. Whether it's temporary or permanent, or for two minutes, but we need to see how much money we have here. It turns out that we have more resources than America and that we are, that barely America can reach us in this period and that they literally envy us for this kind of means. But I'll tell you gentlemen, we have 280 official euros per capita, America $7,700. I've been shown some other information, I don't know this institution, I don't even know that some are calling, criticizing Europe, and calling on people from Europe and someone who came from Europe to teach us a lesson about corruption, etc. We're very careful to analyze all these documents. We've been looking for and we're going to look for a document that everyone is specifically invited to, about corruption, who's done a monitoring on project implementation, I'm sorry, I don't know, I can't remember everything, I have to get help. We'll ask them to make it public. Everything that is and what is found to be a crime, as corruption, however you wish, will be managed and directed to the authorities in this country. If someone expects the Health Department to start investigating, they'll start arresting, like some said, they'll start building a unit, something like UBPOK, no. We have mechanisms and we have said that our activities will be done through health inspection, sanitary inspections for medicines and these funds. It's our real power. Anything else, other organs will work. It is our job to ensure all these conditions, as we do in the current time and do in the ministry. At the same time, he's now wondering why we're conducting or why the screening administration will start running in 2013, what doesn't start right now? Someone needs to read that you told me that by that time they will be working and working on the introduction of screening, and in doing so, the personnel are being educated, so that with the help of the international community in 2013, they can carry out all these activities related to the screening of colorectal acronyms, breast cancers and carcinomas of the uterus. When you're talking about why now, three years? I've already talked about this, and I told you, by 2015 we expect it to be introduced and integrated in real terms, and that all activities that are happening in health care, especially money flows, are registered in an acceptable manner and are available to all people, including the Assembly. Is that real? The equipment's been bought. It's installed every day. All equipment and training is installed for 158 health homes by 1 January, and it is due to start working on 1 March. So, by 2015, and a health institution of secondary, or tertiary level. It's something that's certain and it's something that the funds are approved for, which is bought and so on. At the same time, some people are invited and constantly mentioning what happened in the previous period. The previous period is something that is now for us in this situation where we are in a period of good things where certain results have been achieved, large, in certain segments of health care. There have been failures, there have been other things, but at this point we have the obligation to, because of the situation we are in, which is, in addition, the result of the economic crisis, we solve the patient's problems, as I said, put out local fires at certain levels. If the entire health ministry turned to the past and questioned what it was, and given an evaluation, that's what this Assembly and the people sitting here have been doing in the past. Therefore, we have respected and we have no right to interfere now with your decisions that you made in the previous period. That's why I'm here all the time as a representative of the Ministry of Health, and I'm gonna keep answering those questions on the last Thursday, no matter how pleasant or uncomfortable she is. In this direction, I can assure you that the Ministry of Health that is currently working in it, and in general the health system, regardless of certain assessments and assessments that we may not be in a position or are unable to do what the people and citizens expect us to do, that we are making the most possible efforts for the health service to work and that our basic or central problem is a sick person, or a injured person, and that according to the maltreatment and prevention that will mean a much healthier state of our citizens. That's our basics. So on many occasions, I sought help from all segments of our society. I got it from everyone. I'm not going to say that some of them were smaller, and some of them were more involved. Today I'm going to mention a name, so it might replicate, but I don't know what, but I'm just going to mention Mr. Paia Momchilov. He helped us a lot, just because the board, whose head, put on the agenda a good part of the problem in the health system and helped to solve some problems together, to look at some problems together. In the coming period, we will respect all the demands he has made for us. The first and basic request that he has not made, which I will do in the next period, is that the chairman of the Committee on Health of the Assembly has never been invited to the ministry, I will invite him, you deserve it, Mr. President, and in the end once again I think that at the next session we will be able to improve these changes and additions, that we will accept safely and what you are proposing from the SRS and that you will propose to us. I expect it from you, but not only do I expect, they expect the citizens of this country, to say this is not good, and we think this is better. In that no one has a fence, that we do this now, and there's nothing to do in the future. I'm afraid, too, and all those ministers who come in next will have a lot, a lot to do in view of all the circumstances that have put us in this situation that we are in. I thank everyone, I have not expressed my gratitude to the chairman, the president of the assembly and the vice presidents who contributed to this being a dignified day in the Serbian assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-22-0.u58638	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Please, we're not going to do this now, interactively when I finish the session, just to close the session. Allow me to express my gratitude to Mr. Minister, Professor Zoran Stankovic and his associates for the interactive work on more important proposals for amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act. I am concluding a joint principled search on these two amendments to the law, i.e. on the proposals of these two laws, and I am informing you, honourable Members of the Parliament, that we will continue our work on July 25, 2011 at 10.00 hours 10 of the extraordinary session. At the end of this session, we will continue to work, these sessions. I'm sorry it's the ninth extraordinary session. So once again, thank you to all the MPs who have taken active participation, it is obvious that on the subject of health care we have the most understanding for each other and for our citizens, more importantly. Thank you.
