ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60506	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 84 MPs attend the session, and in order to determine the number of MPs who insert their parliamentary cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, I would like to ask you in this way to determine the presence of MPs in the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that there are 89 MPs present in the electronic system with their parliamentary cards and that another number of MPs is present in the hall. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on matters under their jurisdiction and responsibilities of these officials, and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs in order to carry out the function of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60507	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, after the earthquake that struck my city of Kraljevo, the citizens of the Kings are grateful to the social political organization and to the citizens of the Kings and Serbia for helping the citizens of the Kings. However, even after a number of degrees of MPs, here in the Assembly, who were asking the same question - whether economic operators and state authorities will help resolve the damage caused by an earthquake that many have not done and still do not work with a large number of citizens and employees, have no financial means to balance all this, I would ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic for the simple reason that today, despite so many questions, no member of the government has answered what and how to help the economic operators of the Kings. I would also ask that this same question be asked to Mr Milos Bulgarin, the president of the Republic Chamber of Commerce, whether from the Solidarity Fund that exists in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, some financial resources may be allocated and sent to the Kingdom's economy, or to the Regional Chamber of Commerce, so that they can solve their financial and other problems. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60508	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60509	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a statement by Minister Dacic these days has aroused spirits in the Presevo Valley, especially Albanians, as the most Albanian-used border crossings have been announced. Given that State Secretary Oliver Ivanovic went further in defining this issue, so he stated that he also thought about the transition to Končul, i.e. the White country, then asked me a very important question to the Prime Minister – is the government behind these announcements that, as a countermeasure, KFOR actions in northern Kosovo will take steps like this, as said in the border crossings most used by Albanians, because I think it is very dangerous intentions that can destabilise the situation in the area? In fact, I don't see any connection in these moments between the problems that are taking place these days in northern Mitrovica, Leposavic, the Zubi stream, where they block their own roads to realize political goals as a countermeasure, blocking the border crossings at Jarinj, I don't know if the other one was blocked by the same measure, and we know that the one in Jarinj was burned twice. I don't see what kind of relationship there can be with a very peaceful situation and communication that takes place at least one way, from Presevo, Bujanovac, towards Pristina, Gjilan, towards Kosovo, because the opposite movement is gone, we know more than these ten years, from the Kumanovo Agreement. In my view, it is very problematic announcements that need to be analysed in detail, as this would mean further discrimination against Albanians in the area. Of course, if the goal is destabilising, this orientation will actually have an effect. I'm asking-- who needs that? Is this at all necessary in this difficult situation with a very difficult economic situation, when people leave their hearth, see no way out, have no perspective for a normal life, even though this adds to them, then the question of the whole difficult situation in Presevo Valley is really raised? Is that the intention and purpose, that this mass departure, which only as Izberg's summit, was seen during this year when the visa liberalisation system was compromised, because of the asylum sought in European countries, without talking about the problem for years, when tens of thousands of Albanians went towards Europe and Kosovo? Now I ask a very serious question to the government and to the Prime Minister himself and the President of the State, to give similar explanations on what this is all about? What are the intentions and what is the strategy of this government towards Albanians in the Presevo Valley? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60510	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60511	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I have a question, more specifically, asking the finance ministry for an explanation, more specifically than the finance minister. If I could in one sentence, if I wanted to characterise the meaning of the question and the notification I am looking for, it could be said what the central government's attitude towards municipalities in Serbia, especially in small municipalities and especially underdeveloped municipalities, and especially in municipalities that have hit major elemental disasters, such as the Ljig municipality. The president of the municipality sent a request to the Ministry of Finance that he had not received until the day of today, nor was he respected by any response. Just listen to what Mr. Maksimovic asked – Your Honor, I am calling for a request to allow us to meet at the Ministry of Finance with the aim of overcoming the problem that the municipality of Ljig is facing and which, from day to day, is growing and even threatens to block and disable all activities of local self-government. It is a temporary suspension of funds from the Ljig municipality's budget, based on the debt of the agricultural cooperative Kačar from Belanovica, over which the bankruptcy process and other unsettled liabilities based on the return of land have been completed. As of 13 September 2011, the budget of the municipality of Ljig was reduced to 11 million and 640 thousand dinars, with forced payment, which is based on the cooperative's debt. The final amount of debt on this basis is unknown to us. It is a matter of days before the blocking of the Ljig municipality's budget and the inability to achieve the law of the projected obligations of local self-government. With so far-deposited funds, which is over 5% of the municipality's planned 2011 budget, local self-government will inevitably be in a position not to fulfil its obligation due to the blockade. Since this situation will lead to a complete blockade of the work of local self-government, we ask that the meeting be scheduled as soon as possible, so that the problems can be overcome and the adverse consequences reduced to the least possible. I note that the trials of the long agricultural cooperative in Belanovica were held, it is former social property, and that the municipality of Ljig, or representatives of the municipality of Ljig, did not even know about these trials that they existed. Some judgments have been passed, and I'm not going to interpret the correctness of those judgments here. Now a forced charge is being made in the municipality of Ljig. Here are the things, what was needed from those funds that were taken down to get Ljig municipality to execute. Among other things, there will be in several secondary or primary schools disabled heating. By forced payment and blocking the Ljig municipality's budget, which will inevitably follow in the next day, all budget users' activities will be disabled. Two primary schools and one secondary school will not be able to obtain energy, i.e. coal for the heating season, they will not be able to meet the costs of electricity, which will be questioned by the educational process. Preschool institutions, or kindergartens, will not be able to function because they will not be able to provide heating and electricity costs. Two utility companies will not be able to carry out their work, or provide heating for the city’s heat, clean water supply, garbage and the like. The adverse consequences of this situation will be directly and indirectly suffered by all citizens of Ljig municipality. That is why I ask this question – are the citizens of the town of Lig with such a decision of the state punished? Do they receive a message that the next time they vote differently, since the situation was similar in the municipality of Osrečina? There the State, or Ministry of Finance, urgently paid out of the budget reserves of several million dinars to the Municipality of Osecina. What's the difference between the Municipality of Osrečina and the League? It's the same people, it's the Shumadins, they're good and honest people. Do we need citizens, and we people's MPs, to conclude that the basic difference is that in the municipality of Osec, the president of the municipality and the ruling coalition, from G17, and in the municipality of Ljig from New Serbia? What does that have to do with the citizens? What are the citizens of Ljig municipality to blame? Is it possible that, here, I have a list of appointments only, that the finance minister, the Ministry of Finance, doesn't have five minutes to receive the president of the municipality, to explain the dramaticity of the situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60512	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60513	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with much respect as Mr Makricevic spoke about and according to the problems of Belanovica, the mythical place of the newer Serbian political history. I'm going to try to say a few words about the general interest, or the public interest, because today a debate on the law on public property begins. I'm sure these postagers of general good and public interest will be so often used. At the same time, practically, far from the public's eyes, there is a brutal abuse or violation of public or general interest for which there is no place in the media or in our public and which cannot reach the agenda of what is happening, primarily in northern Kosovo, this strange concept, that the position of Serbs or the truth about Serbs spread by pushing this people into the ghetto or raising walls around them. The folklore of literary and sports evenings announced, but not sure that Serbs will be able to help these people in the only possible and effective way, with some kind of direct financial and political assistance, but from the moment the budget rebalancing law comes before this parliament, it will be in 10 or 15 days. The rebalancing and budget for next year depends on the implementation of this law, which we will also talk about today and the restitution law which is the next item of the agenda. This long-awaited and desired positive decision or candidacy that we expect from Brussels will not make much sense without it. We are all thrilled with this information on the front page of "Politicals" – Serbia's government has suddenly returned Kosovo's north to the tax system, or the VAT system of Serbia, and I guess that's how it gained sovereignty in that part of the territory. But the Serbian budget has much bigger problems than that tax or customs area. A few days ago, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Nikezic, announced a budget rebalance to the public, in a half-vote, in a rather bureaucratic manner and thinks that this is not a job for him, but rather for the finance minister, who, through the circumstances and prime minister of the country, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, should not worry about citizens, businesses and economies, that there will be savings in the budget of 8.5 billion dinars, so about 85m euros from the position of capital investment or infrastructure projects, but that it will not stop and even slow down the implementation of these projects. So, finally, this highway, for example, through Vojvodina that is built ten times longer than in any regulated country, and also those facilities around which it is going to be here today, or that will last, in terms of whose property they should be: the province, local or general, so that these projects will not suffer, that the savings will be made by a very interesting method, which is called – the change in the dynamics of payment, which is called in Serbian – workers and suppliers will not be paid in this year what they have done. At the same time as the Government, or its Vice-President, Mrs Kalanovic, seems to me, with the promise that all of Serbia will be networked with a network of new highways, and announces the government's regulation that will eventually lead to order and where the state, and above all its public enterprises will finally begin in time, or in some temporary time to pay off economic operators, as Mr Krpic, who have worked for the state, who either agreed to pressure the state, Mr. Mr. Mr. Dulic, all those who run the fate-based infrastructure projects, or simply had no other choice. In a country where practically three-fifths of the price and a vast part of the economy is controlled or subsidized by the state, business operators do not have many options on the free or open market, especially those dealing with construction, infrastructure, etc. So, the idea of the government is that, through the budget rebalance of 85m euros, which it does not have, it does not pay the companies that have worked, which is practically administratively transferred for next year, which is practically transferred to the next government, which will hopefully run Serbia in a different way than in the term of this government. I remind you of some similar decisions that have already been made, i.e. similar to how the current problem of the liquidity of the state budget has been solved. Farmers were promised several months ago to receive most of their subsidies in January. All these obligations that are paid or partially paid to the raspberries are also kind of transferred to next year and this expectation that since January, just because we get a formal decision on candidacy, we'll be able to cover all those minuses and patch up those Potentkin villages that we're building now, they're simply not real. My question for the government is – when will the budget rebalance come before this parliament and how does it think it is resuscitating the consequences of the economy, which will take place because of this irresponsible policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60514	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60515	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the DSS want to ask, as one of the predecessors did, what's going on at KIM on border crossings? At first, I must quote yesterday's statements by UK Ambassador to KIM Mr. Jan Cliff, whose statements are in direct contrast with statements by officials of the Republic of Serbia, primarily on the head of the negotiating team, Borislav Borko Stefanovic. Mr Cliff, I repeat, Britain's KIM ambassador says that during Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, it was not only about the functioning of the Jarinja and Brnjak border crossings, but only about the stamp and customs documentation. He argues that KIM is in general when it comes to customs, saying he would like the northern Kosovo population to reconsider the rights contained in the Martti Ahtisaari plan, with us known as Ahtisaari's plan. Then, he said the events of July 25th, when special units of Kosovo police tried to take over the administrative crossings of Jarinje and Brnjak, that the action was due to the lack of agreement on the customs stamp. So, if we agree on a customs stamp, everything will be fine, except that Mr. Borko Stefanovic, the head of Serbia's negotiating team, said there is one point in some six points of the agreement on the special status of border crossings, the Brnjak and Jarinje customs checkpoints. Now we have a situation that it's been denied, that it's all one whole. Is there any difference between the White Land, the Conchula, the Merdar and the Brnjak and the Jarinj? Every politician in the country, every citizen of our country must know that. Mr Cliff, in the end, asked whether EULEX violated his mandate by bringing Kosovo customs officers to the Jarinje and Brnjak crossings, explained that he had participated in the development of the Eulex operational plan with KFOR and that the EU, which recognised Kosovo, supported the transitions being made by Kosovo customs officers. Of course, he did not fail to point out that the UK has recognised Kosovo as well. What did he mean by that, that EU countries, which have recognised Kosovo, are equal to the EU? As a result, the DSS reacted with one initiative these days to discuss the issue of Eulex's stay in KIM here, to review their role and re-install UNMIK as a UN body. Then we won't be able to talk about Ahtisaari's plan, because he's already been rejected by the same UN team. Then we cannot talk any further about the Eulex mission, when EULEX was still in November 2008, when it entered the KIM territory, when its officials said that EULEX had come to install an independent state of Kosovo and its institutions. A new policy is needed. This government can no longer run a policy on KIM because, among other things, it has become the third party in the whole KFOR-EUlex story. Only there is politics, whether about stamps, whether about transitions, whether about something third, there is no story about status. It is necessary that you can say popularly how to reset that policy and hire the UN. Finally, one question to Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the president of parliament. Five times in a row is not possible, by the ruling coalition MPs, to be held by the KIM Committee. The last time was on September 16th, Friday, at the Brnjak crossing to KIM. We were there, too, who were not members of the Committee, and we witnessed Minister Goran Bogdanovic sitting in a bar while MPs gathered to try to hold a session of the KIM Committee for the fifth time. (President: five minutes. If the country's relationship is to sit in a pub, to eat and drink, while someone is trying to discuss the most important issues for this country, then we really have nothing to talk about. I'll see you in the election, you'll be punished by your citizens for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60516	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has repeatedly warned that Serbia's biggest problem is the government, which shows this every day, primarily in our economic life, in an increasing number of unemployed. It is now projected that this year over 200,000 unemployed, although the IMF says 400,000, around 150,000 jobs are at risk. For the biggest problem yet, besides unemployment, we have spoken several times and we are not alone in this, not only are other opposition colleagues saying that, but also all statistics, whether it is the country of Serbia, whether it is the world, say that corruption is a huge problem in Serbia. We've been giving various examples, including this vaccine, which we now see have some arrests. As far as it goes, we'll see, but for years we've talked about it, about the Jell-O Bridge, the legendary bridge on Ada, and many other examples we've been instructed to do. We have never received adequate answers, not only as MPs but, worst of all, this whole system of corruption is growing in the country of Serbia and is increasingly burdening our citizens. I'll give you another example now. This is what I tried to talk about in July of the month, when it was that day for asking questions to the government, last Thursday, but then only two ministers came. I'll tell you one more thing, since May, we haven't had the opportunity to talk to the government and the ministers in such a way, so I haven't been able to ask this question, and in the meantime, the damage seems to have been done. It's about speeding up pension reform. In 2005, the World Bank approved a $25m loan for the implementation of the collection consolidation and pension administration reform project in Serbia. We all know that pensions and how they burden the budget and that pension system reform is needed, but by the end of 2010, almost nothing has been done by some advice from various experts, and this has been spent on these $25 million. At the end of 2010, a tender for the construction of an information system was launched at the end of December and the project would begin to be implemented. Then you stepped on the stage. The ministry is responsible for Mr Ljajic, six months have been offered, more than six months have been decided by the commission. The best bid was made by Greece's Iropian Dynamics, which offered about 3.8m euros to build the system, then one of our consortiums with four million, and the fourth on offer was a consortium run by the Croatian firm "IM Two" with 4.5m euros, meaning 700,000 more expensive bids, than the best offer it made to the Greek consortium. More than six months were decided on how in fact the fourth one, that is, the Croatian company gets a job. According to some of the information I have they've been given that job, although I don't know if the contract is still signed. So it was given to whoever gave more than 700 000 euros more expensive than the one that was most favourable. This whole affair has an even deeper background when it comes to the fact that this summer a point was put on the World Bank project that was to be implemented by the information system in the Republic Geodetic Institute. There's a broken contract with the performer. Similarly, a tender was made, a more expensive bid of half a million euros was selected in the tender than others, and it took them three years to start working at all, they didn't even start. The contract was broken, for three years Serbia lost and, most importantly, it was left without a registrar's register until today's day. Because of these abuses, Serbia is actually late, because of these abuses, Serbia has huge problems. My question for Minister Ljajic is concrete – is it true that this Croatian consortium, i.e. The consortium led by the Croatian firm got the job? Is it true that 700 000 euros is more expensive than the best offer that was and what are the reasons for this decision by the commission formed by his ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60518	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps this institution of asking questions in the best way reflects the situation of our state and the relationship of the institutions, not only towards the MPs, but towards the citizens. We also had the opportunity to hear Mr Markicevic say that the letter sent by a municipality president a month ago or no more answers. What wonders when here on many questions to the day of today's government has not answered. That says it all. I think this is going to be a government that's going to carry an infamous record by the number of questions she hasn't answered. We have a law on which when you ask some questions to an institution they have to answer. Only the government or ministries are not obliged to give these answers if they are appointed by MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly. There's one interesting thing, last week I asked what the government would do to prevent the robbery of its own citizens at all levels, from peasants, in turn, by those holding monopolies, especially related to a banking system that is completely in the hands of foreigners and that literally robs citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You think the answer's here? One order that they wrote, to say – we will do everything. Neither one order is capable of writing. That's what it says about the situation we're in. This is a country in which the government allows citizens to be robbed and it is likely to have a certain percentage. That's the problem we're facing, and as long as this government doesn't change, that's how it's gonna keep going. We also face a much more serious situation when it comes to northern Kosovo and what is happening. We ask the government to go before the Serbian Parliament and bring MPs and citizens of Serbia before all that is really agreed in the negotiations held by Serbia's negotiating team with the Cypriots with KIM. Let's see what's true, and what's a lie, because until the other day you introduced a ban on transporting goods to KIM, or to northern Kosovo, you, because tomorrow you announced that northern Kosovo is back in the single market. What does that look like? You're introducing borders to your own people. Is this part of the agreement that you have reached, and you cheat on Serbian citizens by telling them that you will never recognise the independence of KIM? Just a matchmaker, a con man. They're more honest at fairs robbing people than you are. I'm asking you, what are you going to do now in the next few days? Why are you acting crazy? You expose these people there to life dangers, they are at barricades, and Brussels clearly states that this condition must be resolved, either by soap or by force. The Order says it very precisely. Mr. Hallimi laughs, he probably knows what he's getting ready for. What are you going to do with that people, what are you going to do? Say it now, not when it happens. How many people need to die now if KFOR takes the force to remove the barricades? Shame on you. Why didn't you set up one customs officer according to Resolution 1244? See what they do to set up a single one, because they know it's the essence, and you have a resolution, and you've done nothing. One time you haven't made a request to meet that resolution that we have the right to. What do you want more from this country and these citizens? Get out of the way, because you've ruined everything. That's what you're going to pay for in the next election, and as I see the situation with you, it's going to happen very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60520	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If he wants to, please sign into the electronic system. Since more than the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are not answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and MP Milos Radulovic. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic – Dejanovic, called for this session within a short period of time than set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of the Government to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the presence of Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Svetlana Markanovic, Deputy Prime Minister in the cabinet. Notification of the invited to the session. I would also like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the presence of Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Svetlan Markanovic, an adviser in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 13th extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the following DN E N I R E D was set: 1. Proposal for a Law on Public Property, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a return law of the seized property and the compensation submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Return Act (restitution) of property to churches and religious communities, which was submitted by the Government. We're going to work on the agenda. First item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Public Property. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and so that: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia G 17 plus and Together for Shumadija - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 15 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would also like to inform you of the mandated representatives of the parliamentary groups: the PUPS parliamentary group MP Đuro Peric; the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Zoran Kasalovic and the SRS parliamentary group and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to be an authorised representative, please inform us of this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Before I ask if the word "proposer" wants to be spoken, I am informing the National Assembly, based on Articles 90 and 87, that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, by the end of the principled search point that has just been opened, therefore, the proposal for a law on public property, and that the usual break will be set at 1400 hours. Does the proposing representative, Bozidar Djelic, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60521	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today begins a session dedicated to property. Before I move on to the interpretation of the public property law, let me also present in the context of this law and those that follow. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed three laws – the Law on Public Property, the Law on the Return of Taken Assets and Compensation and the corresponding amendments and additions to the laws governing the return of seized property, restitution, churches and religious communities. We'll discuss it this week. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia will propose on Sundays to propose three more laws that will round up a comprehensive reform of property relations in our country, and this: on the proposal of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the law on concessions and public-private partnerships, which will allow the potential decisions of this home concerning public property to be completed and that this new possibility opened by the public property law will be used for as many useful projects as possible for our citizens. The second law is a law concerning property law and other real rights, essentially a code, a system code that has been in place for eight years and has been prepared by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, which will regulate general relations in our country, whether it is a public sector or a private sector, with new provisions concerning, for example, mortgages. Finally, on the basis of the recently adopted Public Procurement Strategy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will propose by the end of the year to amend and supplement the Law on Public Procurement, which also concerns the functioning of our state, acquisition, above all, of additional public property. In this way, by the end of the year, through these six laws, we will have a comprehensive reform of property relations in our country, which will lead to better functioning of the state, clearer relations between the state and the private sector and generally better-founded rights. As far as public property law is concerned, the public property law is one of the key laws that provides for implementation in practice of what the 2006 Constitution has made possible in the domain of decentralisation. If this esteemed home votes this law, it will do much to function our country. How many times in recent years have we heard that one street, one square, is not being fixed, because in its own sense, it is the property of the Republic of Serbia and that although the initiative is coming from the locals, it is necessary to obtain opinions, it is necessary to obtain permits, and it is not rarely necessary to provide funds from the central centre for something that is truly local? How many times have we heard these years that entrepreneurship presidents of municipalities can't do enough and fast enough to realize projects with interested investors because, especially in their own domain, things don't go well with the dynamics needed for economic life? How many times did it take to go through various extraordinary, accelerated procedures to achieve a normal and positive outcome? By this law, at last, within the state, you will know what belongs to whom. From the era of hypercentralisation, it is proposed to move to an era of balanced relations, in principle of functionality. It was possible for two large decisions – either to go by territorial principle, that everything on the territory of a certain municipality and the province belonged entirely to that municipality and to that province, with risks that existed and pre-centralisation era, or to go by a modern, functional principle, that public property be located at that level that corresponds to the modern European state and in a way that the property, in terms of the holder of property rights, at the level where they are made the most efficient, fastest and comprehensive decisions. Unequivocally, the principle of functionality has been used. He, on the one hand, needs to provide what must belong to the state of Serbia and belongs to it, and wherever it is useful and instructed that property belongs to the local level, so it is, and not only for three levels of government - state, province, unit of local self-government i.e. municipalities and cities, rather than in the general sense of the public sector of the Republic of Serbia, which may be less written but which in fact do not rarely bear more rights to use property and not rarely employ more people. This concerns public enterprises, public utility companies and all those companies that these levels of government have established over the past few years. They, of course, are not forgotten by this bill. Three levels of government are recognised in accordance with the Constitution, and thus the holder of property, state, provinces and units of local self-government. What's important to say is that these three levels are recognized for the first time systemically speaking, I'd say, and three categories of what can and should be subject to public property. These are natural resources, good of general interest and finally good at general use. These are categories in which things are located by nature, by the functionality of those goods that need to belong to one or another level, or regulate relations within those categories, between the early categories of authorities. Specifically speaking this time, the question has been raised to our country – whether through privatisation Serbia is giving what no one else has given. Whether through privatisation is given a source of water, mineral, whether by giving concessions to search for certain minerals, Serbia has given what to one other country on this globe would not have thought to do. Here, natural wealth, defined as those waters, water streams and their sources, mineral resources and other goods that are specifically defined by law as natural treasures, are a category of goods that can only be in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be alienated. Of course, this does not mean that only the state, the Republic of Serbia, can be the only one in the position to use those resources. It is possible to establish a concession, it is possible to work with other levels of government and with the private sector, but this good cannot be alienated. It is a European practice and Serbia with this approach, in no way gives up on it. Good of general interest in public property are agricultural land, land that is subject to particular interest in all countries and I know that during this debate there will also be stories about agricultural land. Notice that at this moment of climate change, the fact that the Republic of Serbia has quality agricultural land is of strategic importance. This is why agricultural land, like those situations seen in other countries within Europe, is categorized as good of general interest. Forests, forest land, water land, water facilities, protected economic goods, cultural goods and others, they enjoy special protection because they are of particular interest and of general interest. The same good of the general interest on which there is a right to public property is in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, if the law does not specify otherwise. In this category, private property is possible, there are forests that are privately owned and through the restitution process there will be even more. But in the public sector with one exception to which we will talk a little later, these goods of general interest are the same in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the third category is also the category of goods in general use. General use is what requires public property, because these are the good things that need to be given access to everyone, by the nature of things. This is the case with public roads, public railways, bridges, public road tunnels, railways, streets and streets, squares, public parks, border crossings, administrative crossings and others. In this case, the principle is the property of the Republic of Serbia, but for the sake of decentralisation and more efficient use of these goods, good in general use, following a discussion that followed during the public debate, on the one hand, on the one hand, the government of Vojvodina, on the other hand with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, is proposed by this law and amendments adopted yesterday by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to carry out one clear categorisation in accordance with the Public Roads Nomenclature. And specifically, that streets, squares and parks, as well as untegorized roads and municipal roads are owned by a unit of local self-government. In this way, the question that has been so often asked, who is responsible for what, who can decide where the past will be. The local government chosen to improve the functioning of the city's municipality will have every opportunity in own sense to improve the functioning of the road network that is one of the central issues in our country. It's a possibility, but I want to say it openly is also a responsibility. The responsibility to provide funds, because compared to June this house passed a law that provided more significant resources for local self-government, through this property law we have a combination of money, property and opportunities for local self-government in months and years to come to provide a significantly better local travel network. It will benefit both our citizens and greater investment opportunities. At the same time, the state roads of the second row, these are roads that connect cities between the districts will be property of the province. In this way, the road from Panchev to Zrenjanin, for example, and those other roads that are important to the province, will be in its property and thus it will be able to further strengthen the travel network and strengthen the region's economy. All other roads, primarily highways and first row state roads, will be adopted by the Republic of Serbia. In this way we believe what will be one major priority of the Republic of Serbia in the next two to three decades, because we are so late to establish efficient travel networks, we will have a specialisation of three levels of government, with a clear division of jobs, with a clear distribution of funds, and I am sure that this will result in many outcomes for all our citizens and for our country's international position. If we look at other elements, I talked about it earlier, about the main sector, I want to make it clear that we have been in some way for many years, as far as the public sector is concerned, a little "Cardak in heaven or on earth". On the one hand, significant assets were used by the public sector, on the other hand, are essentially not available to any of the elements of what the company should make of it. The public company, a public utility company, is not there by chance two words – both public and company. Clearly, it's not just any company, but if it's public, it's not a public sector, because then it would be part of these three levels of government, it would be a company. And in this law, two things are made possible. First of all, the process of enrolling the rights of use that they have today, and they are a lot of abundance, public enterprises, public utility companies in property rights, we have two years in which depending on who they are, a public company, i.e. The public utility company will demand from its founder the tax and precise property that should become its property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is an extremely strong lever for public sector reform, for large property storage, for the large public sector of our country, where the municipality on the one hand, the province from the other and the Republic from the third will be able to enter the strategic dialogue and to assess whatever and whatever extent of the property it is necessary to remain in a public enterprise and I am convinced that in this way we will free up additional assets and create new opportunities, which in the domain of attracting investments, if certain buildings, certain moving, immovable things can be better used by the founders rather than by them to invest in a public enterprise. It is certain that if this esteemed home adopts this law, we are expected to have an extremely difficult debate, not to lie, the public sector in all countries, and also in our very strong actor, it affects, sometimes even more at the level of government than the level of government unfortunately affects the public enterprise itself. But here, the political and democratic level has a very strong leverage in the crucial domain of property, to impose the necessary changes in the public sector, to profile an efficient public sector at all levels. But when he does, at the same time, to train that public sector to be finally a company. Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, for 10 years this home has been in various government councils, here's the fifth in a row, taking credits where the government gives, and after that by ratification of the Assembly, the state guarantee, the example works, for loans to the EPS. In the last 10 years, Serbia's electro-priority has returned every dinar, every euro debt it has, but because the EPS is not the owner of anything, but has only the right to use, no business bank, no international financial institution has been able to give credit to the EPS without asking for the sovereign guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, so that the EPS, when this large property storage is carried out, will have the capacity to, in accordance with the assessment of those who will give it these arrangements, do the job itself, not burdening the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this will also be the case at the regional and local level. When the founder invests assets in a public utility company in return, he receives capital and participation and thus finally public utility companies remain, but at last they become businesses and thus form a base for the upcoming law on concessions and public private partnerships to have its full effect, because without this law, this law could not go very far because it would be about actors who would not have any property they could invest in some joint ventures. As for enrollment in the property of the autonomous province and unit of local self-government, the deadline is foreseen and it was also an amendment, i.e. The effect of a public debate that took place in August of the month, so the draft adopted by the government, which has become the proposal before us today, has been proposed a three-year period during which other levels of government can be entered into property. This is the period during which we will form public registers where it will be crystal clear, better than in other countries, what belongs to what level and what state it is, whether it is burdened by a mortgage and what it is that property that our country has at various levels. If this is also an innovation in this proposal if we compare it to what happened in mid-August, that level of government for various reasons is not entered, the Republic of Serbia will be the owner, but with the user from that level and an additional period of seven years is open to enrollment in its own autonomous province, units of local self-government are executed, so in 10 years, I believe, with all the problems, with all the difficulties that are administrative nature, it is enough time for this transition to be done, so there is no pre-inclusive deadline and the total deadline is 10 years. On the other hand, our citizens literally in every municipality in our country can conclude that local self-government is not rarely hosted by numerous administrations of the republican level. It is enough to go to any building of any municipality and see that with those services provided by the municipality is where the IRS is, where there is another directorate from the republican level. decentralisation will unequivocally lead to strengthening the local level. It is necessary that citizens, first of all, and businesses have this functionality that they can when they come to the municipality to finish all the jobs they have with the municipality. That is why even in this case a transitional period of as many as 10 years is opening. In particular, since this is not only the case with local self-government, but also in the government building of Vojvodina it is, for example, the Tax Administration. It also opens, on the one hand, an entry into the property of that level of government that uses that facility. In particular, Vojvodina in the case of the government of Vojvodina building, but it also crosses a period during which, what is a republican level, it can use the room as fearlessly as possible, but with the legislator's wish and clear intention to resolve this issue as soon as possible. At this property-state level, this law will allow further rationalisation that, for example, in Pogorevec or in Svilajnc, we have three buildings where there are three thirds of the municipality, and then we have several buildings where there are several directorates. the establishment of a republican level to bring about further rationalisation, to make it cheaper, and at the same time our citizens have a functionality that when they go to one place they can finish all the jobs they have with the municipality, and on the other hand finish all the jobs they have with the republic on the other hand, so this is not just one lever for restructuring the public sector, but also for much more rational use primarily of buildings and rooms on the side of the state. What's done in this law, because it's kind of predetermined by our Constitution, is the possibility that city municipalities may come to certain rights of use. It is not possible to give property to the city councils by this law because it does not allow the Constitution. This law goes to the fullest extent possible to enable the city's municipalities to function by predicting that the city will become the owner, and that it will also allow the city's municipalities to be users of that public property. I can only say about this law that, with more rational use of public property, it is clear recognition of what must remain state and maximumisation of everything that should be at the place, with what will be a major property preservation of the public sector and rationalisation of the municipal, regional and republican levels. This law on public property makes it very clear that a revolution cannot happen before it is resolved on the issue of restitution. This law provides that any level of government or public utility cannot be entered in the property unless there is a paper of the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia showing that under the 2006 Law, which recorded the property sought, that property is either not requested and that registration is possible in that case, or that it is required to obtain paper which clearly puts it to the knowledge of the outcome of the restitution. If the property comes back, it comes back and becomes private. If compensation is to be made, then the level can be entered, and the Republic of Serbia, something later this week, will be said of it, will provide compensation funds. Madam Chairman, the honourable MPs, have long been waiting for one of these laws. He will ensure that the 2006 decentralisation spirit from the 2006 Constitution becomes a reality. As a result, I believe that this law, along with the amendments adopted by the Government, deserves support that can go beyond the ruling coalition, because one such law has been drawn up in one constitution which was subject to broad consensus and we believe that as such, it allows local self-governments now to come to a more significant means in the local community to work together in the reality of our citizens' daily lives, from the repair of the streets, from the decision to form an industrial zone, from the possibility that three levels of government, such as in many richer countries than our own, will cooperate, that both in large capital investments and states and the provinces and local self-government together invest and harvest the fruits, in accordance with what they have invested, from such investments. We believe that for all of these reasons, because the time has come for Serbia to finally have the right decentralisation measure, we vote with one large majority of this law. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60522	Do they want the word of the committees responsible, the Finance Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Local Self-Government? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? Yeah. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60523	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, distinguished knees and colleagues, I will not say that the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 1995, was implemented in 1996, 1997 and 2005, etc., is incompatible with our highest legal act, but it is not in the spirit of the Constitution, the existing Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, is not in the spirit of the 2006 Constitution and is not complementary to the processes that are open and concluded in the transition societies of Eastern Europe, without talking about the countries of Western Europe. I would like to say, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, that we have considered the bill, this very important law, one of the most important in this assembly, and perhaps in the period since 2000, which we have adopted, that we have also considered the bill and the amendment submitted by the Government on the proposal of this law. They're 18 in total. We have also assessed that the draft law is and that the amendments are in line with the legal system and the Constitution, with its constitutional basis in Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As chairman of the board, I just want to draw attention to the provisions of the Constitution that speak of existence, when we talk about property, the existence of private, cooperative and public property. Public property has so far been covered and lived in one concept of comprehensive state property, almighty state property, or jurisdiction, so to speak, State property Directorates and where we had situations and where we have today, which was spoken of by the Deputy Prime Minister, that any intervention at the local level must require the consent of the central, or the Property Directorate. By this law we clearly distinguish, define public property, distinguish it to three entities: public property in the property of the state, or the Republic of Serbia, public property in the property of the AP and public property in the unit of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. There is no functional decentralisation, there is no possibility of jurisdiction, which we have with the Constitution and many laws later passed, being realised, that municipalities, cities and autonomous provinces and competences are exercised if they do not have their property and do not have the appropriate means to implement these laws, i.e. the functionalisation of certain competences. It is harmonised entirely with the Constitution, with relevant international documents and with legal systems, or solutions that exist in legal systems in developed societies. Therefore, once again in the capacity of the chairman of the Legislative Committee, I call on all MPs to discuss in principle and in particular the issue of such an important law, such as the Law on Public Property, as it will allow for the rapid economic development of the Republic of Serbia and the rapid development of units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60524	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and then MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60525	Mrs. Comic, given all the seriousness that Vice President Djelic pointed to, I would ask you to give us a break of at least 30 minutes, to be familiar with the amendments submitted by the government to its draft law. It's about 18 amendments. We don't even have them in front of us right now, except for the list that was passed probably to the Legislative Committee. They're not even printed in the meantime. We can't have a serious debate unless we have amendments to the government's proposal, and it's 18 amendments, not one, but 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60526	Thank you. No matter what the debate is in principle, I consider the proposal of the president of the LDP parliamentary group celery. I'm setting a 30-minute break. We'll continue work at 11.50 hours. During that time, I hope that the MPs will have time to get acquainted with the amendments, so that even during the debate in principle they can bear in mind what and what solutions the Government, by submitting its own amendments, decided to make suggestions for the MPs, and from the government of the AP Vojvodina and various other interested parties, to correct the bill's proposal, and to shape their discussions during the debate in principle. We'll continue work at 11.50 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work after a certain break. We are in session when the right to speak is given by the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word from the representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) National MP Đuro Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60528	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, who seems to be absent, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally received a bill that regulates an extremely important area, an area of property relations. A new form of property, public property, is being established. So far, there was only the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia. Public property is determined to be owned by the Republic of Serbia or state property, the right of ownership of the AP, the province property, the right of ownership of the units of local self-government, municipal or city property. This law establishes the right to public property of the AP, units of local self-government, which did not have that right in the current legal system. In addition to setting up a public property system, this law will carry out a transfer of state property to certain assets of the Republic of Serbia owned by the AP, a unit of local self-government, a prior condition for the establishment and exercise of the property rights of these entities. In public property are natural resources, good for the general interest used by the authorities and organisations of the state of AP, the unit of local self-government. This provides a clear and consistent framework for establishing the legal regime for public property. It is prescribed that provisions of the law governing the right of private property be applied to the acquisition, exercise, protection and termination of legal property. Financial assets i.e. monetary assets of securities of value in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, AP, units of local self-government are governed by special law. The special law also regulates the legal regime of building land, agricultural land, forests and forest land. Natural wealth of mineral raw materials, springs of mineral and thermal water, natural lakes and other goods, which are specifically defined as natural resources, are owned by the Republic of Serbia. A concession or right of use, i.e. exploitation, can be obtained on natural wealth, and the compensation for it belongs to the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the unit of local self-government on whose territory is natural wealth. It would have to be a criterion by which the amount of compensation is involved for each of these entities. It is not seen in what part who, or what conditions, will participate. Good in general use is in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, except for streets that are not parts of the highway, the state road of the First Order or the Master's Road, the squares, public parks owned by local self-government units on whose territory they are located. I don't know if there are any amendments to that. The Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units can invest funds in the capital of a public enterprise and a company of capital in accordance with the law. This creates shares or shares in public enterprises and capital companies and rights on the basis of these shares or shares. Natural resources, good general use, networks, water goods and water facilities in public property, protected natural goods in public property and cultural goods in public property cannot be subject to forced enforcement. Under the bill, public property users are state authorities and organisations, authorities and organizations of the AP and local self-government units. Public enterprises, capital companies founded by the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. Things in public property can be given in the use of other legal and physical persons - concession or otherwise provided for. Real estate is supplied in public property and alienated from public property, starting with the market value of the immovable property assessed by the tax or other competent authority in the public tendering process, i.e. the collection of written offers, if the law is not different. Article 29 provides that extremely fixed items can be obtained or alienated by a direct contract, but not below the market value assessed by the competent authority, and that if, in a specific case, this is the only possible solution. The acquisition of movable goods in public property is done in a manner prescribed by law, which regulates public procurement. The estrangement of movable things is done, as a rule, in the public advertising process, i.e. the collection of written offers, in a way that ensures the interest of public property entities. It is unclear why this is done, as it is said, by rule rather than obligation. Exceptionally, estrangement of movable things can also be done through a direct contract, although Article 33 provides for such cases to be determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group is that such solutions, in the light of precisely public procurement, where it is estimated that there are many irregularities, should in no way be a rare exception to become a rule. It is the same case that things in public property can also be leased by direct contract. On the acquisition of the right to natural wealth and goods in general use, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides, if the special law does not provide otherwise. Public undertakings, public agencies and capital companies may be established to manage goods of general interest in public property. Article 42 provides, which we think is good, that the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units can invest in the capital of public property things used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government to exercise their rights and responsibilities, which include immovable and mobile matters. The fixed items within the meaning of Article 53(2) are official buildings and business premises, residential buildings, apartments, garages and garages, immovables for representative needs and the needs of diplomatic and consular representations, immovableities for special purposes. Moving things are means of transport, items, historical, documentary, cultural and artistic values, equipment, consumables, moving things for special purposes. Official buildings and premises according to the bill are buildings, parts of buildings, rooms built, purchased and otherwise supplied by the Republic of Serbia, AP and units of local self-government. Residential buildings are considered residential buildings, apartments and garages, a business space in residential buildings, which are being built, purchased or otherwise supplied in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units for the needs of their bodies. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government keep records of the state and movement of funds in public property used in accordance with the law. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government, are obliged to provide data from the immovableity record to the directorate who keeps a unique record of immovable property, which is also useful to the director. I think this directorate should be more specific in the law as it's called, this isn't enough, it's quite archaic as it's been said here. The Directorate is obliged to keep records of shares and shares in public enterprises and capital companies, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or units of local self-government. The Directorate shall submit an annual report to the Government on the state of immovableity in public property. The third chapter of the bill discusses the establishment of public property of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. Article 73 paragraph 2 states that natural resources, good of general interest in state property, other than municipal networks, streets, squares, public parks, goods used by public enterprises the founder of the AP Vojvodina, are in line with the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the means used by the Republic of Serbia, state bodies and organisations, institutions and other organisations whose founders, on the date of entry into force of this law, become resources in the public property of the Republic of Serbia. The funds used by the autonic provinces, i.e. the unit of local self-government, shall be considered as resources in the state property on which, on the date of entry into force of this law, they are registered as beneficiaries of the AP, i.e. units of local self-government, as well as the funds used by the AP, i.e. the unit of local self-government, which may constitute the basis for their entry into the public book as a beneficiary of the funds. It is interesting and quite acceptable, in our opinion, that the draft law in Article 75, which provides that a local self-government unit whose territory is located at the head office of a health institution, the founder of which of the Republic of Serbia, may, within a year of the date of entry into force of this law, initiate a procedure for agreeing on the share of funds in the public property of the local self-government unit in the means used by that health institution. The application shall be submitted to the Government through the competent ministry. In the context of this solution, we think that we should see and resolve the many participations of local self-government units through self-deployed contributions and which addressed the problems of the lack of funds in the construction and various facilities which were partly financed by both the republican or the provincial state authorities. It is also a question of the funds of the PIO Fund, where insurance and pensioners are from their so-called funds. common consumption, building various facilities that should be regulated and become their property. On the date of entry into force of this Act, special property powers of the AP, i.e. units of local self-government, shall be established on the immovable property referred to in Article 73. Autonomous province, units of local self-government may take all available acts of these immovableities, except for estrangement of immovable property from public property without the consent of the Government. Finally, I would like to stress that, in the area of property relations, under the bill, many newspapers and especially operators and entities with certain powers are being introduced, so, in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, in the process of implementing the law, it should be borne in mind that some of the proposed solutions are not being shown as good, so they should be quickly repaired, so that there are no undesirable consequences, as we usually do in practice. Since there have been a lot of misunderstandings over some proposals, we hope all of this will be corrected through the amendments, and in this sense the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60529	Twelve minutes and 20 seconds used from the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60530	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, allow me to state the views of the SVM regarding a known version of the Bill on Public Property. I said that I would talk about a familiar version of the Public Property Bill because the Government adopted a total of 18 amendments today on its own proposal for a law on public property and the original text has largely been amended. We still haven't had the opportunity and time to study exactly what's changed here. We've looked at those parts that are of great importance to the AP Vojvodina. If 18 members of the bill are changed and there are 90, then I think we can say that this proposal is neither more legal nor roughly the same and cannot be compared to yesterday's version of the bill. I must tell you, Mr. Djelic, this bill of law is getting better and better every day. I'm extremely sorry that we won't vote on this bill in a month, because it might be acceptable. I'm saying this because we all know very well that the Law on Public Property should have been passed on the basis of our Constitution by the end of 2008. The Government shall bear exclusive responsibility for not proposing a proposal for a public property law within the time limit provided for by the Constitution. What's more, this delay is almost three years old. When I say that this bill of law is getting better every day, then I think, first of all, of the solutions that existed in the bill, which was published on August 19th. This is the draft law Mr. Bojan Kostresh, vice president of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'd like to quote one provision of that bill. Thus, Article 77 reads in this way: "Special laws governing goods of general interest can determine the conditions for obtaining public property of good of general interest, by the AP and local self-government units, except for infrastructure facilities and other goods of importance for international and national traffic. "This means that according to the Public Property Bill, the AP Vojvodina was completely excluded from obtaining property of anything that means an infrastructure facility. This means: roads, railway infrastructure, channel network, etc. For the sake of the public, it should be said that the bill intended that Vojvodina and local self-government had no way of having anything in their possession, which is an infrastructure facility. On the other hand, something is now envisioned by these latest amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I said that this version is much better. It is predicted that Vojvodina can have in its own ways a second order, that local self-government can also have certain types of roads in possession. This is also about the channel network, etc. I could say that this bill, along with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is in line, to a large extent, not entirely, with other applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is scandalous that the draft law has been drawn up and that the draft public property law, which was not in accordance with the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia, has been referred to in the procedure of the National Assembly. I do not dispute that the legislation can later be amended by means of legislative solutions and solutions provided for by other laws previously adopted. It's legally possible, but it's not cellificial in this case. I want to remind you, Mr. Djelic, that it is, for example. The Law laying down the competence of the AP Vojvodina stipulates that through its bodies the AP regulates and provides for conditions and means of managing the protection of the maintenance and financing of second-class state roads in the territory of the province. It is an epochal solution proposed this morning by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This solution has been a figure of speech in our legal system for years. Now we should be happy that the last version of the bill provides for what already figures thanks to the Law of Jurisdiction, so-called. Omnibus law, for years. Let me quote you another law. The local self-government bill. This law found that a local self-government unit regulates and provides for the construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of maintenance, protection, use, development and management of local and untegorised roads. This is again foreseen by this latest bill, and we should be happy now that what exists in the Law on Local Self-Government has been foreseen since December 2007. The Law on Planning and Construction, again one valid law, a positive law. So, this law provides for a similar regime for automatic crossing of the right to use in public property rights in favour of the AP and local self-government units in construction land. It's so-called. The establishment of property rights in the case of the AP Vojvodina, if the building land is located on its territory. This bill speaks of the acquisition and the right of public property and speaks of some deadlines that are not too involved in the extent to which they were drawn up by the Bill of Planning and Construction, but the Law on Planning and Construction provides for the establishment of the right of ownership of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the solution envisioning the transition of construction land to the property of the AP Vojvodina by force of the law, i.e. "ex-lege." This solution is not envisaged by this draft law in the case of other public property facilities, since the building land is not subject to the Public Property Act, which, of course, I find with surprise that we think a comprehensive law should be passed and that construction land and some other public property facilities should be regulated by the Public Property Act, rather than waiting for some other special laws to be passed, who knows when they will be passed. We've reached the channel network. Since we have heard these days that all amendments to the government of APV have been adopted, except for the one about the railway infrastructure, that is unfortunately not true. The APV requested, and that is what we have suggested by our amendment, that the channel network in the APV territory be owned by the APV. With these latest amendments today, that is Amendment 16, the government of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen to have channel networks on the territory of the APV in the possession of the province, unless they are part of the waterways. You'll agree it's not about the same solution. So, Vojvodina can get reed and chess, it can't get those channels that would mean anything. Of course, and that's something, and I should probably be grateful for that, but the provincial government didn't mean this, and neither are we with the SVM. We're slowly reaching the railway infrastructure. I'll try to explain why we believe the railway infrastructure on the APV territory, except Corridor 10, should be owned by the APV. I'm very sorry that it seems to me that only the railway is controversial and that the government has come into contact with both the government of Vojvodina and the SVM, but we're pushing it to the finish line and we're looking for solutions that simply cannot survive because they don't comply with the Constitution of Serbia, etc. That's just not true. It is not true that, as I said earlier, there is unfortunately still to be said about the canal network and the Novosad Fair and the dilemma whether public property in the case of APV is established "ex lege" or the province is gaining public property rights. Here we should also talk about the position of local communities and city municipalities, and we have an amendment on that as well. Not everything must come to the railway infrastructure. Speaking of rail infrastructure, I would like to tell you Mr Djelic that our goal regarding this law on public property and the objective of our amendments, we have a total of nine amendments, we will be making amendments to the amendments today so that this will be in line with these latest amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, we want these amendments to create property-legal assumptions for faster infrastructure and economic development of APV. That's what this is about, it's not about anything else. Speaking of property-legal assumptions for faster infrastructure and economic development of the AP, then it is necessary to talk about rail infrastructure. As you know, in the territory of today's Vojvodina's first line was built in 1869, in the late 19th century on the territory of today's APV railway infrastructure, the railway network was denser than the English railway network, for example. On the other hand, a few days ago, in a debate over the Law on Railways, I provided information that in 1923, 382km was owned by a state of railways in the territory of APV, and 1247km was owned by various companies. Then the railway infrastructure developed for a time in the territory of today's AP, so the period of collapse came. From the late 1980s to the day today from the territory of the APV, 16,000 wagons were taken away, bus traffic, etc. "Silver Arrows" from 1960. Today, it comes slower from Saturday to Belgrade by train than it was hundreds of years ago. I think this information speaks a lot. The day before yesterday, I read one piece of information that, for days on the route of Subotica-Belgrade, the train was being driven by one car. This means that dozens of people cannot get on the train, only about 80 people have the privilege of being transported by rail from Saturday to Belgrade. In response to this, the train is about 20 minutes late, it should arrive half an hour early for the takeover of the starting positions, so that a man can come in, so that a man can get into that one car that traffics on the route of Subotica-Belgrade. And that's rail corridor 10. If that's the case, then you can imagine what's going on on so-called. local or masteral regional railways. Serbia's railways unfortunately have no explanation for the situation. Of the 50 billion dinars of public companies' debt, 32 owe railways, the railway subsidies amount to 16 billion dinars according to the current budget of the Republic of Serbia. When someone is talking about, that the railways are a symbol of statehood, that the symbol is not a sovereignty, then it should be reminded of the information that can be verified that Serbs before World War II existed, the fire and the Sabac County Railways, the Firefighter and the Sabac probably had the intention to break away from the Republic of Serbia before the Long World War. So it's about everything, judging by some separatist environments, but as we can see, thank God these cities are still in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Another piece of information, for example, in Austria all forms of property are possible on railway infrastructure, the country seems to be an EU member since 1995, and more importantly, it is also possible under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 83. The constitution says Vojvodina settles the issue of the province in the area of road, river and rail, traffic, etc. I'll tell you what I told Minister Mrkonjic a week ago, there's a strategy, and unlike him, Mr. Djelic, you were a member of the previous government. There is a strategy for developing rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2015. This government strategy, i.e. point 4 of this strategy, provides for the administration of transport and infrastructure, which is gradually transferred to the authorities of the AP and local self-government units. Of course, I understand what it means gradually, but you'll agree, Mr. Djelic, that this strategy was adopted in 2008, it's been a long time, this transfer of infrastructure to lower levels of government has not yet begun. I think the adoption of the Law on Public Property is about time for that to happen. I did not find an amendment from the Government regarding the joint investments of the Republic and the province, and that is one solution that we have proposed, as well as a provincial government that is not foreseen by this latest proposal for a law on public property. We will, of course, speak to the amendments in particular, but I would ultimately like to ask you, Mr. Djelic, about these laws you have announced. You said that a law on concessions for public private partnership, property law and public procurement will be passed very quickly, i.e. amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Djelic, what about the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I think, if that law had to be passed since there are various modes, Vojvodina could have received original incomes and amendments to the Budgetary System Act, Vojvodina could have received original revenues and budgets for this year and last year's budget and the odds were missed. So, I think since this opportunity is also missed and there is no word in the proposal for a public property law that should be passed a special law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I hope these amendments will be accepted, as I said, have nine pieces and we agree with you, Mr. Djelic, that what should be the property of the state, the Republic of Serbia, but that this law should allow one decentralisation to a greater extent. I hope that in the coming days we will also have the support of those parties that advocate autonomy and regionalisation, above all I mean the League of Social Democracy of Vojvodina and the United Regions of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60531	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60532	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen, the first important question for our party is the question of the majority, whether it exists Mr. Vice-President for this law or not, and whether the ruling coalition that has been formed and on ambition that this country is as close to the EU as possible, including through the delivery of EU candidate status, has the power to do the job or not. I'll tell you why it's important for our party. Because we have very often given more support to the government in an effort to meet the European agenda of members of the ruling coalition that have been made for the ambition to introduce Serbia into the EU. I would not descend on that history of Serbian railways, the speed that our tracks, the fate of a canal with cane and no cane, is the fundamental question of whether today this country has the power to fulfil its remaining two obligations under the European agenda, or whether it will be a hostage of the incompetence of the ruling coalition that will do what we are, as a society, only as a society and successful, in tripping and destroying alone. It's crucial to us. The Law on Public Property, Mr. Djelic, does not prevent wide decentralisation. Since you said he emerged from the Constitution, the Constitutional Consensus cannot be any better than the Constitution itself, which is already narrow for Serbia's needs in 2011. And when the Constitution was adopted in 2006 it was clear how bad it was and therefore this law stemming from the concept of the Constitution cannot be responsible for the problems Serbia faces today. I'll refer you to the members of 86th and 87th. The Constitution. You came from France and it has 26 provinces, Germany has 16 and we want to do these relations the way you arranged for Germany and France on condition that there are assumptions and capacity to do such a thing. But I think the point is something else. In the character of public property, the way it is defined, in the fact that in Serbia the Constitution foresees the existence, private, cooperative and public property, and then public property is graduated as property of the state, province and local self-government. It is not the same, Mr. Djelic, to place a sign of equality between the state and public property and the republican administration and public property. And for us, that's the essence of the problem, we don't think it's the essence of the problem, we don't think that in any way the Republic government can be in favour of identifying itself with the country from the province administration or administration here in Belgrade. And that's what's the basic problem of the public property law. What's the starting position? Well, the starting position is where Milosevic stopped in 1995. when the Law on Property of the Republic of Serbia took away the rights and responsibilities that existed at the time, so this law on public property, in fact, expressed continuity with the way the state was organised, which was formulated in Milosevic's era. Because it's very clear that it's a starting position. How should Serbia be organised as a state? We never talked about it, what are the boundaries of the republic of the administration, and where it begins, let's say the province's right to organise it or local self-government. I think that is why it should be said that this law is being adopted in order to initiate these processes, but in doing so very clearly insist on one principle which is why we alone can support this law, which is the belief that democratic processes in Serbia cannot be achieved beyond the European integration process because it is obvious from our experience that only through the adoption of EU standards we raise the degree of internal freedoms and affirm this principle of a modern state that we have the right to in the 21st century. If we talk about forms of public property, natural wealth, goods and resources that are owned and have different levels of government in Serbia, then we want to live in a country where natural resources will be managed by those who depend to the greatest extent of these natural resources and goods. Of course, not past the state. But the state is not a republican government. The state is one order and system, and there's not a word here about decentralisation. This is obviously about trying, first of all, to create some assumptions for further normal development, because this way we can no longer function and, on the other hand, retain complete control of society management. That's our problem. That's the problem the LDP has with the concept of this law. It's right that it's very important. But why is he important to our society? Because I suppose we should provide those preconditions that would allow us to start operating in 2011 according to rules that are different from the rules under which we live 11 years after Milosevic, and that we are minimally different in the organisation of this life than Milosevic's Serbia. For us, the real problem is the fact that the starting position is actually the right resulting from anti-democracy, anti-reform procedures and efforts to preserve a very retrograde, authoritative regime such as Milosevic, through the usurpation of rights. The amendment to the Law on Funds in property of the Republic of Serbia in 1995, two amendments in 1996 and an amendment in 1997 were solely due to the ambition to retain control of resources in a country that began to change primarily through the fact that some other parties had won power at different levels. Whether it was local self-government in the city of Belgrade or some local self-government in Serbia or Vojvodina, it is no longer so important. But the very fact that we approach public property problems in this way actually tells us that we can't expect too much from this law. Its greatest value is actually in the fact that it will bring us closer to the EU for a step. Then the law on restitution, the status of EU candidates, and the new climate in Serbia and only in a democratically-oriented country, will be able, free from fear and prejudice, to discuss the essence of the problem, which in fact rests on one feeling that in Serbia, the state is always in the first place, and that we as its citizens or hostages of that system or most often cannon meat. I do not believe in the ambition by which Serbia can be made a modern country by roughly revising the rules that once existed and there we do not have much understanding of this confusion that follows the work of the ruling coalition at this crucial moment for the future of our country. First of all, I'm thinking about the obligations we've taken as a state. A terrible European idea has been compromised in our society that we would now, for a step away from candidate status, have the right to have the Sabac once had its own local district service infrastructure, so we are looking for something today for Vojvodina and if it is not there then we will tear down our European agenda. There is a difference between LDP policy towards Vojvodina and other parties of the ruling coalition, above all. There is nothing of an autonomous and modern-organised Vojvodina without a European Serbia. Unfortunately, that's how it is today, 30 years after the Yogurt Revolution, actually 23, 24. The idea of autonomous Vojvodina was initially antagonist with the majority commitment in Serbia. Its reference as an idea that should interfere with some change is doomed to failure if there is not a majority in Serbia. It's a paradox. It's important that you adopt these amendments, because they show willingness to move in that direction. The problem is that there is obviously no social assumption that a law is passed that would allow Serbia to express all its potential. It is true that local self-government will now have the right to property on the means they are entitled to use by a decision of the republican administration. But what are we going to do, for example, with the funds of the PIO Fund? You're an economist, you know it's Greece at our necks, not a stone, but Greece at our necks. A PIO fund without its property doesn't exist anywhere in the world. How will the PIO Fund property issue be resolved? We have a serious problem with the fact that this property has largely lost on its material value, but the principle of property must be reaffirmed. Does this mean that the PIO Fund will be an address at which, in the coming years, funds will be provided not through the management of the PIO Fund but through our budget? That's how we understand it. So the property issue is being resolved at the level at which it is important for the republican administration itself, which is through the preservation of control mechanisms, not through the distribution of rights and responsibilities, at every level at which these rights and responsibilities will be realised to an absolute extent or as effectively as possible. We've written an amendment to Article 9, to these natural resources. We believe that natural resources should be the property of the environment they belong to. Isn't that right, Mr. Djelic, in France? Is that so in Germany? Is that so in Austria? Having the right property over natural wealth does not mean that someone has the right to do what comes to his mind. It's regulated by other regulations. But that means that anyone who thinks that in his name can do better than himself to use that natural wealth should get a message from the state to sin. We don't mind the idea of being centralized at this stage of the waterway area, because it's too much and it's obviously what chaos is at that level. But we're interested in what happens to those situations where the state, because of its priorities and inability, is doing a selection of the jobs it's going to deal with, and then eventually we get the whole system of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel as described by MP Pastor. You have a tree in the canal near New Vienna, it grew 10 meters high. And local self-government has no right to maintain that channel and to have it at its disposal. It's too much paradox. So it should be said that we are passing a law that is most important at this point because we are taking one step towards the EU. Do we have a majority or don't we have a majority? If there is not a majority in the ruling coalition, you will get support from the LDP but not for this law, but above all for the opportunity that Serbia must not drop and which stems from the fact that we are on one law from obtaining EU candidate status. In this regard, we do not think that candidate status will in itself solve our problems, but the fact that in this process we have a positive impact on those jobs that cannot be done in Serbia past Europe, regardless of whether we are talking about fighting corruption, double standards in fiscal policy and the burdens that follow, say, Western companies and Russian companies or a whole series of anomalies that are filled with our public life. We have written another amendment on the property of public enterprises, i.e. public enterprises. I hope that at least there will be understanding, because obviously we will find it difficult to agree on these natural resources, which is the obligation of this country to affirm a completely different approach in the public sector or companies that will be in a public private partnership tomorrow. Politics and private interests must not be as present today. This is why competition is very important for the public in the selection of staff. I think that even on that amendment you should show an understanding of the necessity of changing formats, models, ways of organising life, including economic and economic life in Serbia. And the big misunderstandings remain on this second plan. It's not the same or you, Mr. Djelic, answer whether you think the direction is to put a sign of equality between the state and the republican government and put a point there, because this law is the only way to understand it. The issue of public property is very serious and under public property we cannot distinguish between state property and property of the province and local self-government. I guess both the province and self-government are the elements of the state. This is what we see as a problem, and in fact it is the result of impotence, inability, not understanding the importance of modernising our country, and not the power and inability to be present only in the republican administration, there is also one in the province because the issues that are being raised cannot be driven in such a way that the whole society will trip in situations where none of this can benefit. This should be the topic of our daily dialogue in every segment of our public life. That's how one country changes. What I think should also be said openly, the idea that this will create assumptions for Serbia's further democratisation is not based on arguments, Mr. Djelic, in any way. It is true that local self-government will be entitled to property on certain assets, but over what? Only over the property that was now subject to use, but not over the property they once had, which was taken away from them by Milosevic's regulations in the late 1990s, because Milosevic did not want to allow the development of local self-government and provinces in which he was not in power. It's a fundamental anomaly of this law. So there's a value continuity with the 1990s and there's, obviously, marginalizing what they've created, in time, local self-government and the province itself. This does not automatically mean that everything that was once needed to be available to the province and local self - government tomorrow. We are not for this kind of analogy but certainly for the question of public property and the answer to the scope of this public property, it had to be done in another way, by formulating the objectives, the reach of local self-government or the province, and then, according to this, reaching very clear political agreements, but not only political, but also they much wider – social. We have a serious problem in the functioning of our society today. The situation in which we are located is very bad and at least what the Liberal Democratic Party wants at the moment is a further deepening of the crisis. The only anchor for Serbia is this European idea and we, instead of "Kosovo" Serbia, which has gone too far, want Europeanisation and therefore are ready to support this law. Say, Mr. Djelic, is there a majority in the ruling European policy coalition or not? That's what's very important to us all. It doesn't matter if we go through our backs because that's how we get candidate status or there's awareness in the ruling coalition that some problems can't be solved in this term, but under the new climate, under new circumstances, they'll be solved tomorrow. That's what we're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60533	Seventeen minutes and 30 seconds used since the time of the Parliament Group president. National Ambassador Pastor Ballint. Two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60534	I'll answer for Bozidar Djelic. There is a majority for the European path of the Republic of Serbia. The Union of Duke Hungarians has never been a party that has done anything against the European path of the Republic of Serbia. We will not be a party that will bring down the European agenda of the Republic of Serbia. Since we are livingly interested in Serbia's membership in the EU as soon as possible. On the other hand, I said that this law had to be found much earlier in the congregation procedure, that it would be good, that there would be a chance that this law would be good and that it would allow true decentralisation. That is why I do not consider it legitimate to expect all parties of the parliamentary majority to vote for anything. That is why we have submitted the amendments and therefore we hope that these amendments will be accepted. Everyone knows in this country, who reads the newspaper at least once a week, all citizens, that the European agenda of the Republic of Serbia will not depend on whether a public property law will be passed. That's, unfortunately, a fact. Everyone in this country knows, who at least once a week read the newspaper that the European agenda and the speed of the European approach of the Republic of Serbia depends on what happens next week at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60535	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60536	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the proposal for a public property law does not questionably constitute a system law for which the adoption of the constitutional basics was acquired in 2006. In the debate so far, a number of times mentioned the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which was brought up in 1995, and I would like to say that by adopting one such law in one part, a decades-long concept of titleless property has been broken down, introducing a general regime of state property over all things and rights. Of course, the legislator was clearly in charge of such a single criterion, respecting the current social environment in that decade. With the adoption of the 2006 Constitution, the law has become contrary, as lawyers say, to the spirit of positive constitutional and legal solutions and respecting the need for decentralisation and even in its own relations, the aim of this law is to finally determine who owns what in Serbia or simply, which is whose and I think the result of this law is worth supporting. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the Institute of Public Property for the first time in Serbia's legal history, and the bill regulates the rights of public property and other property rights of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government. We believe that the proposed solutions provide at this time the necessary and appropriate degree of decentralisation that increases the potential and opportunities of AP and units of local self-government, but we also want to say that the transfer of property to local self-government units cannot only be considered as a mere increase in the wealth of municipalities, but this represents one obligation to local self-government, to manage responsibly, maintain that property, affirm the necessary responsibility at the level of local self-government. In that sense, the leadership of local self-government, or municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, will no longer have an alibi in communicating with central government and the problems which were, objectively, which are subjective. In this context, I would like to start by saying that it is very important for us that both the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities have made a positive statement through public debates on the proposal for this law. Certainly, there are people who work in municipalities who can best assess whether this law satisfies and provides better work for local self-government, as they say it will ensure faster handling of property, and thus also better environment for investors. We think it is a clear signal that the bill is the right measure for Serbia at the moment. The proposal for a public property law generally accepts a system of acquisition of public property based on previously acquired right of use, which implements the easiest and most technically feasible property transformation and is one of the features of this bill. For the SPS-JS parliamentary club, it is certainly very important that the proposal was not defined as a territorial principle which was also spoken by the Deputy Prime Minister, because we believe that such a principle for which individual policy options were being advocated certainly produced inconceivable consequences in the way of the unity of the Serbian state, and in this way it would certainly disabling the idea of decentralisation itself. The concept of taking advantage of the right to use in property rights does not endanger the functioning of the Serbian state or other levels of government, the solutions offered and creates certainly one space for an additional possibility, for a more elaborate and balanced development of these environments. The bill clearly recognises the specificity of public property, which is, unlike private property and conditioned by the exercise of general interest, and for our SPS-JS parliamentary club, it is very important that natural resources, mineral raw materials, mineral and thermal water sources, natural waterways, natural lakes and other goods that are legally defined as such in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be sold. It's also one of the key specifics for us, which is also the standard of this law at all. In this way, we appreciate that natural resources will certainly be preserved for future generations. It is a sign of the responsible relationship and behaviour of the legislator. The bill clearly defines the good in general use and the good of general interest and here, the amendments to the government that we had the opportunity to meet, it was further done. We believe that it is a well-known fact and it should be noted that all the good in general use is not of equal importance and that the proposed solutions that are untegorised or municipally can be under the authority of local self-government, and of course the highways and roads of the first order must be under the authority of the state, and that it is also a good measure when it comes to the ways of the second order to be controlled and to be in possession of the AP. The bill rightly regulated the possibility of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government to invest funds in public-owned enterprises and capital companies, of course for what it takes to carry out these companies' functions. We agree that such provisions and such solutions offered in this law can be a good basis for a more efficient public sector and for a much better reform of this sector and greater capacity in work. The next general principle to the beneficiary of AP, units of local self-government, is the right to property. Here I would just like to point out to me a good and correct solution, unlike some that are offered to local communities, or other species that are listed and have the right to use this right retaining, and that units of local self-government will have property. I think it's a good solution and it will provide for an absolutely correct functioning of the local communities in the future. The procedure for obtaining public property has been elaborated. I'd like to note that after public hearing and debate, she's in one piece compared to the original bill has been amended. I would take the opportunity to comment on some of the provisions of the members in this regard and return to the part I was saying when it comes to the support of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. In particular, in order to apply for the right to acquire public property, a copy of a public book enrolling the rights of immovable property, a confirmation of the Republic of the Property Directorate, is required. It was originally scheduled for a year. Several public debate participants agreed that the deadline should be extended. It is this bill and proposed, but it really raises one logical question – if we are expecting this bill from 2006, the units of local self-government are very interested, they are creating additional opportunities for development, easier and faster work, how can we be so interested, with so much potential that we have the need for additional deadlines? It is generally known that long deadlines are in principle delaying application and may call into question the effectiveness of legal norms and measures. We are for some kind of stimulating deadline, and we believe that this deadline could be much shorter. In any case, the problems that local self-government has with the list of assets, i.e. the knowledge of what possible future assets are, we consider one of the priorities in the future work of local self-government and we really urge them to organise and very seriously approach this business, because otherwise the question is really being asked – what will be the effect of this public property law proposal? On the other hand, it is also a member of 77 with regard to the registration of property rights when it comes to the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, in his position of 6th, he introduced an exception, which we believe can produce certain problems. The question is indeed – who is someone else who can appreciate it without any procedure and deadline the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions and that it unequivocally determines on the basis of the submitted request and the documentation of the return of the property? With that in mind, we really think that the promoter should think about it. In this regard, our MPs' club also submitted an amendment, that the amendment should be considered seriously and try to find a solution to avoid such a danger as is embedded in article 77. We have commented on some other members and responded to the amendment. It is a pleasure to say that we have made sure that, on Article 29(4) and Article 34(2), this provision has been deleted – without the aspect of the interest of the rightholder of public property. We felt that such a broad provision could make the exception a rule. We truly appreciate the government’s good judgment and support for such a solution. I would also like to say that, and we will talk more about this in particular, when it comes to Article 16, our idea to exempt from the forced execution of public property, or good property, but that it should only be limited to that property that is not illegal, or not in accordance with the provisions of this law, acquired, because at higher levels and in the situation of conflict, there is no one who can arbitration and one such solution would avoid such a possible option and situation. We think that might be a good solution. Finally, with concrete members, I would like to say, and I would like to ask the Proposer, when it comes to a member of the 84th Conqualification – what was the real idea of such a proposal? In particular, by adding item 2 which is not in the original draft, which excludes, in its own sense, i.e. includes the immovableities acquired without a public call, i.e. the collection of written offers. We believe that this position 2 should certainly not be and that it creates a wide space for a single conqualification of a lawlessness that was possible, i.e. the question of the funds that were acquired in such a way, where they ended up in that sense. I repeat, we believe that the idea of this article 84 needs to be well explained and ways to prevent the confidation of lawlessness and to produce a positive intensity that the promoter has. But we are certainly convinced that this point 2 should be deleted. It is clear that it is one system law and that it is necessary to seek state reorganisation, primarily for the benefit and well-being of citizens. We believe and agree that, in this process, one agreement of different levels of government is necessary, and we particularly appreciate that for the application of this law, it is very important and extremely important to adopt regulations, and in particular to regulate the conditions of supply and alienation of immovable property by direct contract and the lease of matters on public property, as well as public competition procedures, i.e. the collection of oral offers, as provided for in Article 35, because the legal regulations of sub-legislative acts are very important and it must not prescribe certain provisions that would allow for an uncontrollable outflow of property, and it regulates very significant institutes, such as exchange and availability. Finally, to conclude, the SPS – JS believes that these solutions, the proposals for solutions in this law, are heading towards determining what is and who is the owner of what in the state of Serbia, creates a framework, according to us, for very effective decentralisation, does not endanger, or improves the functionality of the state of Serbia and all other levels of government, in line with the 2006 Constitution. It is certainly the adoption of this law as a function of synchronising our legislation with EU legislation and a step closer to the EU. As a result, MPs' SPS-JS will support the draft of this law in principle, and we will, of course, actively participate in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60537	Sixteen minutes have been used since the time of the parliamentary group's representatives. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60538	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want first on behalf of the URS Parliament Club to express my satisfaction that after 16 years, the law on the return of property to local self-government is finally passed. Of course, the period of 16 years itself is so long that I don't know if we should be satisfied or sad, since this should have been done far, far before. For 16 years, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and in those 16 years almost all parties in this parliament have been profiled. Almost one-third of its working time every Thursday, if Thursday's session of the government, is dedicated to various topics of local character, giving consent to the construction of local streets to the expansion of urban cemetery, to giving consent to ballet schools that can be used to rent various rooms that are in municipalities. So people who deal with this matter calculated that several billion euros in local self-government were lost in the previous period, because they were wasting their time, waiting for the Republic Administration to grant them something that is their thing, to use the free property that is located in their city or municipality. Out of the big problems of the absence of consent, because of the fact that other political options in power are in some municipality in relation to the Republic Government, then it has deliberately stalled from the Republic Property and Government Directorate to the objective overcrowding of the very directorate which, regardless of the number of officials it has physically cannot and could not handle all of this, because the system was wrongly set up. Such things should never have been in the jurisdiction of the Republic Directorate. There's been a lot of banal cases and a lot of serious cases. The most banal case is certainly this last case of Little Zvornik, where, as far as I know, the SRS, where the mayor asked in January of last year to give him consent to the expansion of the city cemetery, because he could no longer have room to bury the dead. He sent a dozen memos to the government, to the Republic Property Directorate, and today it was not granted to him for really very ugly and banal reasons. In the end, what are they doing? Normally, they bury the dead under the law, because these are some things that the law can't even limit. Now this law of such things should come to an end. We are pleased that, in fact, this law was one of the three key legal proposals within the five that the URS collected this spring and where we collected over half a million citizens' signatures. And besides the law on the financing of local self-government, this law on public property was the second key of our proposal, as well as the third law that has not yet been found on the agenda of this assembly, which is the law on the direct selection of mayors and president of municipalities. I have to say, you remember all the debates from June this month when some parties essentially supported our proposal to finance local self-government, but they didn't like why we in the U.S. were formal promoters. Unlike that situation, I have to say that we are quite satisfied with this text that the government has made. I agree with my colleague, Mr. Pastor, that this proposal today is much better than it was a month ago. Every day that proposal was getting better. It's a very solid text and that's why we have no problem not giving that text. Our text stands in the Assembly. We don't care who the promoter is, but whether it's a quality text. Since the text is pretty solid, we're ready to adopt it. What's left of it as a misunderstanding are the following things. Mr Djelic, in his opening statement, said that the streets, squares, parks, local roads would be owned by units of local self-government, and that the intermunicipal roads would be the property of the province of Vojvodina, i.e. the regional roads on the territory of Vojvodina, and then we saw these amendments, that the channel network was also property of the province of Vojvodina. I have to say that the URS absolutely supports it, but we're wondering what about regional infrastructure south of Sava and Danube? We support that Vojvodina has ownership of regional infrastructure in the territory of Vojvodina, but it is completely inconsistencies that, south of Sava and Danube, such a right does not exist for others. That is, the Republic manages regional infrastructure in western Serbia, Shumadi, eastern Serbia, southern Serbia. Obviously, we have an asymmetric system that is unsustainable. I am in favour of these rights belonging to the province of Vojvodina, but it is clear that this solution is unsustainable in the long run. If only one part of Serbia has that right, it is clear that animosities will occur in other parts that do not have the same right. That is why in the coming period, it should go towards Serbia's full regionalisation, that these same rights or similar rights, approximately the same rights that Vojvodina has, also get eastern Serbia, both southern Serbia and western Serbia, Shumadija and Pomoravalje. I don't see why that would be a problem, as I don't see what some people were afraid of, so even now that fear exists, it seems to me, about the debate on the property of the Vojvodina. Why would anyone be afraid to give the Vojvodina or any other region the authority to maintain its own regional roads, regional infrastructure, regional channels and regional railways. I don't know what the difference between regional and railway lines and regional roads is. It is indeed inconsistencies to give the right over one part of regional infrastructure, rather than complete regional infrastructure. There's no difference, and the only difference is that the railway is really inconclusive in the whole country and that it represents an important and huge cost to Vojvodina, if it were to be managed by it. But it shouldn't be the central government's concern. That should be the care of the Duke. There is also a legitimate question asked by Balint Pastor, there should be a special law on financing the region. In particular, Duke, then others. What are the original incomes? Where will all this be maintained and financed? It's not only important here to have property, but to have money, your own income to maintain that property. Something that has been built, if not maintained, is failing, as we know already on the case of channels built, and well abandoned because they are not being maintained well enough, and therefore we have frequent cases, that during the dry years, this potential should not be used and incomes should be reduced from agriculture, or yields. I think it's a completely irrelevant fear that arises around regional property. Examples have been given of other countries in Europe, where regions have regional assets. The RS believes that something like this should be in Serbia as well. It is perfectly natural that the regional government will have more motive, interest to build and maintain regional roads, regional railway network, regional infrastructure in general, than central government. Central authorities always have a priority problem – whether to build a regional road in Vojvodina, eastern and western Serbia, Shumadija, and ultimately, is built where the politician at the head of the resolution ministry comes from. It's the wrong system. The city depends on us, not on the system, but on the people. It's subjective. The idea of regionalisation is that each region gets the right to have its own assets, its own resources, and then the regions themselves decide what their priorities are, so whether to build a tunnel in Fruszko Gora first, or work some time towards the Romanian border, so let Vojvodina decide. What's there to ask the Republic Government, because Vojvodina has to decide for itself. The Republic government must take care of the maintenance of Corridor 10, it is a national corridor, it passes through Vojvodina and through the Forest, and through southern and eastern Serbia. It's the jurisdiction of the republican authorities. In that sense, I see no problem, I even see the need to form regional road directives that will have their own revenues and that will maintain regional roads, while the Republic's Directorate should maintain only national corridors. Such solutions exist both in Austria and in many other countries, I don't see why this would be a problem for Serbia. The more people involved in building and maintaining regional infrastructure, the more and more evenly deployed regional infrastructure will be. That is why we will consider some of the amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups and voted for them, regardless of what we did. So, despite the fact that the U.S.S. isn't about regional property they've given amendments, and if they fit into this concept that I'm talking about right now, we're going to vote for them. We never have a problem supporting a good amendment, no matter what party he proposes. However, we have also submitted one amendment, it refers to the property of the city's municipalities. We believe that the city's municipalities should have their own property, not that there is an opportunity for the city to define the property of the city's municipality with its statutes, but to be obliged to define the city's property by the statute of city municipalities, because the big problem of cities is also centralization. Here's an example of Belgrade. Belgrade is the capital, the largest, has the largest budget, but as many as seven eights of the budget belong to the central city administration. Only one eighth is available for all 17 of the city's existing municipalities. These 17 city municipalities with so little money can't do as many things as the residents of these municipalities expect them to, and they need to do decentralisation. How large is it in other cities in Europe? Half of the budget, around, goes to the central city administration, the central city administration finance large projects, such as Sumtro, bridges and other infrastructures, but that's why city municipalities maintain streets, sewers, water lines when they're being repaired. In that sense, there is no reason for no more money to be defined with city municipalities. Then all urban municipalities will have an equal opportunity to do something for their fellow citizens, not to wait for the central city to determine what the priority is. When the sewerage comes in Borca, when in Ritopek, half of Belgrade still has no sewers, and if the city of Belgrade is waiting to determine it, some suburban municipalities will be waiting. This applies to Belgrade. But not only for Belgrade, this is now for Nis, and Nis has five city municipalities that are only on city hall paper, because they have neither property nor assets. It'll probably work one day for Novi Sad, because there was an idea there, but it never went into action, to form city municipalities, and probably some other cities, as they grow. Of course, we advocate that municipalities first have the right to own property, also to receive adequate funds, and we also believe that local communities should have at least 5% of the city budget. Where the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors of the URS are this system of funding the local communities, which we propose, will begin if the congregations decide, and I think they will, because we have a majority since January 1st of next year. We think it should start all over Serbia. As far as property is concerned, I think the solution to the law is good, that property is municipal, and it is made available to local communities, but local communities should also have their own budget at their disposal. Our proposal is to make it at least 5% of the total city budget, because some practice says it is a minimum amount that should be distributed to all local communities, a relatively large number of residents living in them. So we generally believe that the law is solid and that, however, there are some things that, out of some fear, are unnecessarily left out, about the property of the province, that there are opportunities to improve in the domain of giving property and urban municipalities, as obligations, not as opportunities. Of course, as always, we must express one reserve and be careful about law enforcement. The biggest problem in Serbia, we all know, is not only to pass the law, but problems arise in implementation. What makes us restless is the proposing decision that, I don't know under which pressure, yields and proposes a three-year term for enrolling this property to local self-government. I know that the original proposal was a year, I don't know what the three-year proposal was accepted, no matter who suggested it, even if the SKGO proposed it, it's not good, because I think it's necessary for this property transfer process to be speeded up as much as possible. We know, unfortunately, what kind of campaigns we are, and we know that in the end, everyone in the last quarter of the third year is just gonna start doing it seriously. It is, unfortunately, something that makes us restless. Why am I saying this? Just in light of the case with the recently mentioned Law on the financing of local self-government. It is due to take effect from October 1st, which is in ten days. However, the government has not yet adopted a regulation on the transfer of solidarity to municipalities. In order for the Law on the financing of local self-government, which is crucial for decentralisation, to have an effect and could be applied, it is not enough that the Government has only adopted budget rebalancing, but needs to adopt a regulation on the schedule of solidarity transfers, in order for each city and every municipality to know exactly how much transfers they will receive from the republican government in the last quarter of this year. If we want to discuss budget rebalancing, and I suppose it will come to the agenda, I think that without the law itself having a member where there is a table where we see a transfer schedule for each individual municipality, how regular transfer and transfer of solidarity, we better not start that debate. We will not even participate in such a debate. So we expect that the government does not waste time and not be under pressure again, that a return-application is brought in rather than a regulation on the schedule for the transfer of solidarity, because it was justified to ask why Novi Sad should receive the same transfer of solidarity as Ariel. Then I saw the draft Finance Ministry regulation, which proposed vice versa, that Novi Sad get more than Ariel, because the RS proposal was rejected for all to get the same, and now it is proposed that Novi Sad get even more. If it's a transfer of solidarity, the smaller should get more, not bigger. I only mention this because I'm afraid that the Law on the financing of local self-government, but also this property law, will apply in practice, because the problem is not implementing the law that the National Assembly is making. Finally, I must say a serious debate on decentralisation has been launched. I'm going to say again, the URS aren't the first to run it. There have been parties in this House that talk about it a lot longer than we do, but definitely some positive things started to happen since this spring and summer, when we passed a law. I think we're going to pass this law on the return of property to local self-government and Vojvodina, because it's also important, but I don't think we should stop there. I don't understand why there is no political courage and will to adopt a law on the direct election of the president of municipalities and mayors, to have people choose, not to be set up by party headquarters. It is also a key thing for the next period, so that we have complete decentralisation, plus giving appropriate powers and authority and local communities. So, all in all, I have to say that the law is solid, that we will most likely vote for it. We expect the amendment to our parliamentary group and perhaps some other amendments to Serbia's true decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60539	It was used 19 minutes from the time of the president of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60540	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, all the predecessors who opened this debate have agreed that this is an extremely important law. This is a law concerning the most valuable thing Serbia has. It's natural wealth, it's agricultural land, forests, waterways, all those facilities that our country owns abroad. This law should allocate this to units of local self-government, AP, to separate that part of property belonging to the Republic. In addition to the declarative statement that this law is very important and that everyone cares about it, everything that followed this law says exactly the opposite, including this debate that is completely unthinkable. After the Deputy Prime Minister and the mandated representative of the legislator of this law said his opening letter, we only then received 18 amendments. When transitional and final provisions are excluded, it is practically a quarter of the law that has been amended. In what way the MPs, if the deadline has already expired, from the moment you started speaking, Mr. Djelic, the deadline for submitting the amendment has expired. On the one hand, we have been denied the right to submit amendments to some of the solutions you have proposed in the law, and on the other hand, which is the purpose of the debate if we do not know what is changing these amendments. You've changed a quarter of the members. Let me start by waiting for this law for five years. The 2006 constitution introduced a new form of property, and then the Constitutional Law envisioned a deadline for the adoption of this law in 31.12.2008, but there are a quarter of the laws to change in the course of the debate. In addition to principle, this is extremely important, nothing else points to the importance of matter. When it's been so long and we've waited five years for the law, then this was an opportunity for all of us to agree on individual solutions to open up the right debate in the process of passing laws and to be one of the laws that we'll all be able to vote for. And then we realized that the amendments were adopted yesterday afternoon, that only then would there be a debate about such important things as the property we have. The law stipulates that property users can be entered as its owners, primarily referring to units of local self-government, AP and the Republic of Serbia. The basic question arises – what property are they even talking about? Do we know what the subject of distribution is under this law? The second question, far more difficult than this first one, I assume that every serious country has a list of its assets – what is the value of the property that we are discussing today? Do you have an answer to that question as a legislator? I will quote a report by the DRI, which was controlled by the Ministry of Finance, and in the conclusions of the DRI, says the following thing: "It has been established that the Republic Property Directorate has not established a full and up-to-date record of state property status, unsettled documentation based on the use of assets and documents based on ownership of property, as well as the consequences of the unfulfilled obligation of state property users to provide legally prescribed data." To translate into a slightly simpler language, the state of Serbia and the property directorate has no list of its assets, we do not know what the Republic of Serbia has, we do not know what the matter of this law is and we have no idea what will belong to individual users who are supposed to enroll in their property for the simple reason that, as my predecessor used to say, the laws are not respected. We are entering the process of an extremely important law, a law that essentially introduces decentralisation, which essentially changes things in Serbia, we don't really know what we're discussing. Just to remove the misunderstandings, the DSS is fully in favour of decentralisation. Decentralisation essentially implies original competences, property ownership and involves sources of funding that will enable this property to be managed in the right way and that it will allow the assets to increase from year to year and that the state and state authorities are in fact fulfilling what they are obliged to do, to enable citizens to live better. There is no dilemma, the only question is whether this and similar laws help to achieve this goal. What is the purpose of this law? If the essence of this law is that the property that is now being run as property of the Republic of Serbia, and certain organisations and levels of government are its users, if the essence of the property is written there – is no longer the Republic of Serbia but the local self-government, and if everything else remains the same, then there is no meaning of decentralisation and there is no meaning for the realization of everything we are declaring. In the end, you in your explanation were the least talked about this law. You've been telling us about the plans you're going to make, you've been talking about new laws, and the subject is the Law of Public Property. It's everything else, just not a serious approach. Obviously, the goal is to say that we passed this law, and then we'll see what we're going to do later. The most important thing on paper is to introduce that the owner of the property has been changed, and what will happen to the property, in which way it will be managed, we will deal with it later. Five years after the adoption of the Constitution, a law is passed that practically solves nothing. Sublegal acts subject to this law shall be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of the law. If we waited five years, didn't it make sense to get in a package with this law and solutions that were defined by sublaws and that the whole thing was clear and visible. Each member of the law predicts that this matter will be resolved by some new law. As a matter of fact, we have one probationary law, which in principle solves things, and with all of us it is clear that the solutions that are defined by sublaws and some other acts will essentially solve property issues. We absolutely don't understand at the DSS why it wasn't clearly defined when this law was passed. We do not understand why the provisions of such a crutch and why it is primarily meant to define the issue of ownership after the law has been passed, and very few provisions define the maintenance of that property, the management of that property, care to preserve its value. I'm surprised you didn't look at any of the solutions within the ruling coalition. Let's say there's another law in the procedure regarding this same matter. I have to say that the solutions, we're not going into ownership right now, but the solutions that the other law that one member of the ruling coalition is proposing are far more precise than the solutions that you have proposed here. I don't understand why you didn't accept anything. Let's not listen to the opposition, but why didn't you accept the solutions your coalition partners suggested? The second thing, those solutions that exist in that law, it's no secret, it's at the time proposed to me by party G 17 plus or the United regions, which predicts exactly the opposite of what you're predicting. The issue of property is not a question of the moment of law and the issue of property is not only a question of changing the owner at the time when the law is being made. In the end, the law will only allow for the money now used to change ownership. It does not open up the possibility to discuss any other issues concerning property, or that there may be something to be done, something should not be discussed and the matter should be the subject of agreement. It does not foresee even the possibility of a conflict over the use of certain assets. Take an example, local self-government submits an application for entry into property, and it happens to be a case of local self-government from the opposition. In what time will the decision be made to enroll this user? It doesn't say anything, it can be who knows when. Why has no central property register been established and clearly defined? If our goal is to manage this property properly, then this is not the way a nerd can be defined as the central property register. It will be central, unity will be established, not even a central register, but a unique record of property. What time? It doesn't say. How? The government will subsequently define these issues by its regulation. Is that a serious possession of state property? The issue of property is not only a matter of ownership, but also of the mechanisms that will be used. I'm surprised you didn't think of it, it's one of our amendments that and as far as this property is concerned, and he says the next thing. We predict that during one term, one level of government cannot reduce the value of the property, that is the basis. It can come to someone's mind to alienate the value of property or take risky moves, you saw that only one man did a few days ago damage of two billion to one bank. In the banking system, things are obviously, much more efficient than they are in the state of Serbia. Although one man could do damage, of two billion euros, what damage we can do with our property, if these control mechanisms are not put in place in the right way. Local self-government, public enterprises, an autonomous province must have some property and they must have the right to manage it but control mechanisms must be established at their levels and higher levels. This is the essence of the law, and you have left it all on the sublegal law, on housing and immovable property will be decided by the Government or unit of local self-government, on cars with a special decision, on the record of a special decision, on sublegal acts of a special decision. In fact, what we're bringing here, we're passing a roof law that doesn't actually regulate any important questions. In fact, a decision is made in the National Assembly and all important things will then happen at another level, leaving the possibility that the unit of local self-government and the AP will decide by their acts in a way and who will manage the property. That may sound like a logical solution but a logical solution in the event that no law on local self-government has been passed here, that no consent has been given to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. According to the Law of Local Self-Government, they have their own organs. Why doesn't the law predict what authority will take care of that property? Of course, there is no need to underestimate the councilors and citizens of Serbia, but I have no doubt that they will make the right decision, but why we did not regulate it by law because it is much more important to make and make freedom available to the property, and on such matters we make a decision that will then be easy to implement. To get back to the beginning, we agreed that it was extremely important to pass this law, we agreed that we do not know what matter is and we do not know what property is that is passed by this law to units of local self-government and other bodies. We agreed that we have no idea what individual solutions will look like that will essentially be managed by this property, we agreed that it is not a rare case that the laws that this assembly is making are not respected, so imagine what it will be with the other acts that are being passed here. We agreed that this law does not rightly regulate the issue of property, that local self-government, apart from declarative, does not get the possibility to essentially own property on its territory because it can only be part of that property to enroll in its property. The law does not regulate the question of that property by any letter. Of course, the law on the financing of local self-government has changed, but you say yourself that the consequences of the application of this law will be explained, that there will be a pre-distribution of budget revenue and expenditure. Do you have an estimate of what that pre-distribution looks like and whether you have an estimate of whether the local self-government unit will be able to manage that property? Here, you've drawn up the amendment for us, it seems to me that Vojvodina is getting the pathways of second order, so far it's been a concern of the road management. In what way will the transfer of these funds be realized, and how will we allow the real estate not to lose its value, in what way? Does the law provide for the obligation to own that property? No, I don't. But sublaws will make decisions about it and what if there is no money to maintain roads, if that money is gone, look at the municipalities in Serbia are all in trouble and maintenance roads will probably be the last place compared to all those obligations they have. Why didn't you provide for the obligation that according to the laws that apply in this country, that funds must be allocated for the depreciation of these equipment because it's the only way we can preserve its value, and that's the only way we can ensure that the generations that come behind us inherit some larger property than ours. It's the easiest thing to sell property. This law, it doesn't provide any of it. As it will look, no one in this room at this point knows because you delivered us a quarter, you changed the law this morning during the afternoon, there are a large number of amendments and what this law will look like we'll see and if that's how one of the most important laws, as you've told us, then we don't need to be surprised by the state in which the whole country is. We will continue to discuss this law, we have a number of amendments, and only after the adoption and discussion of these amendments will we be able to say what this law looks like and what the consequences of the adoption of this law are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60541	Fifteen minutes used by the authorized time. The national envoy Gordana Pop-Lazic has ten minutes. You want to talk after the break. Does anyone else want a word? Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60542	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take a break to respond to a few suggestions, ideas we heard this morning. First, to say that it is very important to see this law not only as a law of the European agenda, it is a European agenda in so many ways that European EU Member States have these issues regulated in one specific way but I think that when we are discussing a model, we must be aware that in the EU itself, not in the last century, but today we have a number of different ways of organization that are primarily the fruit of history and where one German formed and we know what the history of that country was, through the unification of empires, princes. One Italy, which is the same in the 19th century after many centuries united and the same as the unification of some empires, cannot be seen by automation as one single model for our country because it is simply not the history of Serbia. Serbia's history has been a history of eternal efforts to ensure independence and unification again, so when we talk about man-made ideas and models for the organisation of the Republic of Serbia, it is important that they match what is the true history of our nation and our country. On the other hand, we heard that, question whether there is a majority for this law. I think we heard this morning, not only that it exists within the ruling coalition but that it will be wider. I hope, since we're going to make every effort in the days that come to amend and corrected amendments, all that essentially respects the concept of this law, because it's always important to have a concept, to adopt these amendments, because if there are illogicalities, some things that can be added, it's a good idea to do so. So I hope that these political parties we heard this morning that they will support the law might be added to some more. Something more specific, about the questions that have been asked, let's take, for example, The city of Belgrade and the city's municipality issue. City municipalities are not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They are foreseen by Article 189 of our 4th Constitution, where such municipalities are said to be educated by the statute of the city. That is the only reason why it is foreseen that this statute can be given that property. So we can't do more than what the Constitution allows. If you want to move on, the Constitution itself should change. There's been a lot of talk about opportunities around the railroad. I just want to say that we need to build a train for the 21st century and we all know how hard it is. I don't know any railroads on our continent that don't get a government subsidy for that infrastructure part of it. On the other hand, this infrastructure is not only where it's well done, it's better for citizens, it's cheaper to use and it's greener, but it has a price. We see that at the level of Europe there is an effort where the railway is divided between infrastructure and passenger transport, believe it or not, honourable MPs, there are efforts to reunite these railways. At this point, the French railways have made an effort to reunite with national infrastructure. The reason – the upcoming European competition, especially the German railways, which does not occur to share transport and infrastructure. We are talking about further sharing infrastructure in this state. There was talk of Austria. Austria, the integrated infrastructure of Austrian railways is state-owned. There is a possibility for those local roads, railway roads, which are not of interest to the state of Austria, to possibly sell them to some private or public persons, and only to those railways that are not connected to traffic routes in general, mainly ski stations, for what is very local and very specific. It's the only exception I've been able to see since I knew it would be the subject of debate. The rest of the railway infrastructure in Europe is in state property. It is very important to build a 21st century infrastructure, to build public enterprises that will be able to deal with competition that will be European or to train them if, at some point, there is an understanding that a strategic partnership is directed, state-of-the-art, to do so under the best possible circumstances for our entire country. Because of this, I think it is very important that we discuss the public property of the Republic of Serbia to recognise the fact that it is arranged in all European countries in accordance with the history of these countries. We don't need to look for a model where it's a product of different history than our country. Because, for example, it wouldn't have occurred to one French, if it had established a public property similar to that that exists in one Germany, no German would have thought of establishing a system of public property like the one that exists in France. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is therefore important that this system of public property be the product of our history, a history that has been the history of unification. It is very important that this system recognizes the reality of Vojvodina's autonomy. Because the autonomy of the Vojvodina is reality. And she's the fruit of history. But we don't need to build some structures that aren't the fruit of a history like that. In this sense, it is important that such a system respects what all other European countries respect. On the other hand, when we talk about public enterprises, it is very important that this law ensures that one large property storage of the sector is carried out. Liberalally, the rights of use have been granted for decades. It is time for them to be transformed into valid property rights, but only where they can be properly explained and for the rest of the property to be used for some more productive and productive purposes. That's what this law will allow. As far as the network is concerned, and we know what networks are, and I'm not saying that the rail network is the same as one telecommunications network, and even less that it's exactly the same as that power transmission network. The transmission of electricity, and that is foreseen by this law, must be in state property. Because he has the characteristics of a natural monopoly. It takes billions to invest, so anyone could compete with Serbia's power grids. Therefore, the power grids in Serbia must be state-owned, but at the same time, Serbia's electricity networks must gradually, and that is the purpose of the changes we have in this sectoral policy, to ensure that there is no "EPS" only possible producer of electricity and in the perspective of not being "EPS" the only possible power distributor. But as for transport, because of the properties of this activity, it must remain united and state-owned. Every time we see a single network, we have to wonder what its nature is and to what extent it must remain in state property, because there may be also a natural monopoly and because it is for economic reasons and future European competition in that area most comprehensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60543	Thank you. This concludes the morning part of our work. I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. The first to be reported is MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. In the morning part of the session, said Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assumed that Mr. Minister would not be in the O.R. today, because his visit to Brussels for two days was announced, and as we can see, he came back this morning, he was in the morning part of the session here, but he doesn't seem to care what we think of this law, so there's a little bit more to do. But we are talking about the law and we are talking about the public, first of all, not because we think that one of the parliamentary majority or don't give God to the government, will accept the knowledge or warning that comes from the Serbian Radical Party. I don't think it's a bad thing for the public to mention that this law and this law have raised a little tension in society, especially between some political factors from Vojvodina, i.e. New Sad and Belgrade. What's strange is that these are the same political parties that are participating both in the province government and in the republican government, but obviously we have to prepare the ground to see who's going to be the Caliph instead of the Caliph, who's stronger, whether Bojan Pajtic or Sutanovac or Tadic, and we're all the other hostages of those three and apparently two other men, including Canka and Mr Pastor, who advocate that this law should break down the entire state of Serbia to the small intestines, i.e. to reach a denomination balance for parents' lives. So, Dad's still alive, but the sons decided to split up, forget about only one of them, which is Kosovo and Metohija. So, Vojvodina is pulling aside, they say in Kosovo and Metohija we cannot apply this law, the old law will apply, which is not bad, but if we were in a situation that we can apply it, and we are in a situation that we have an asymmetric legal system, which is impossible under the Constitution. So the first reason why we think this law can't even be found on the agenda is precisely that -- timing isn't good. In this way you will admit again indirectly that Kosovo and Metohija are neither in the legal system of this state nor in the membership of this state. Another proof of that is the provision here of one member, I think it's Article 10, that I'm not looking for it in law, where you're talking about the administrative limit being good in general. So here's the question, I have no one to ask, but here's the public's idea of whether this concept of administrative boundaries exists in the Constitution or in any law of this state? It doesn't exist. It was introduced by NATO and the European Union. It exists for KFOR, it exists for Eulex, we saw the other day when we went to Jarinj, what it looks like. The barbed wires and the warning stop – we'll shoot. Is it possible that, under this law, we're going to have an administrative transition to the APV? We probably will, that's all we can expect. I don't know how you get this kind of oversight. A series of our objections to this law, from being completely misunderstood by public property, but we don't know how you understand it, because you haven't even given a definition of public property anywhere. You wrote what belongs to public property. A question for a millionaire, for a reward - who from the government will tell us what public property it is? They may know what state property is, but they have no idea what public property is. They don't even know what state property is. They mixed up practically property and property. For the Serbian government, it's the same thing. However, the property consists of three attributes – available, and within the scope of the available property we mean obtaining and alienating, using and managing. What the SRS thinks and can defend with arguments and face arguments with this concept of yours, and you have made no argument why you have to do this, since this is in the agenda for joining the EU, is that availability must remain in the hands of the Republic of Serbia, and the use and management can be entrusted to both the AP and the other, and you do not mention this other one here. So, you gave her up, I mean KIM. Of course, and local self-government who'll do the best they can. You even want to portray this law as a law that goes towards decentralisation. To be honest, no one's going to say decentralisation doesn't mean that. You speak only of certain rights, and you say nothing of your obligations. Mr. Djelic didn't say anything about what it would be like, where the money for this came from, where it came from. Apparently, they'll all be bosses, but of which money do we ask you? And the law says it doesn't take as much money to make this law happen, but it's not true. He says it's not gonna cost the citizens anything. What do you mean, he won't? It's all funded from our pockets, and as it's going to be deployed, it's a smart country. It would be logical and each one of you could probably have the easiest perception of how he has financial resources and pass it on to an ordinary family. If there's money on the table and Dad's, if Dad, when he hears both mom and kids, he's got a closing word and he's got money on different sides, he's gonna meet family needs. If everyone gets to their side, and only Dad does, they'll hardly be able to meet all needs. That's what you're doing here. Of the high expectations that you are announcing in the election campaign to the citizens of Serbia that this will be for them and how useful, that they will get property on roads, bridges, and even railways, and that they do not know whether the railways will be duchy or not. There's still a spear breaking that's what to vote for, and that's why you didn't even vote on these agenda points with the previous two sessions, because it's waiting to see how the government is going to behave on not only these amendments that the government has filed, we know that, but the ZES has submitted 22 more amendments, the Pastor has amendments. What's going to end up being made of this law, no one knows it alive. Now we're not talking about a law that will be passed, we're talking about what might be because we know you. We're trying to figure out what you're cooking for us. About what you wrote here, the unconsistent law in life we haven't seen, believe me. I don't know who's writing these laws to you, but the one about legal norming doesn't know anything, because at one point, believe it or not, I'm a lawyer by profession, I've read a lot of laws in my life and I've read and applied them, and I've asked myself that there's no problem with me. Maybe it is, look, I'm not very smart, but I've been doing something a little bit, and I've been doing these laws, and I'm saying I understand something, so I've taken this job, to talk about this law today, but now you're asking me what public property is, I don't know how to tell you from this law, and neither do you, Mr. Djelic, to tell me, I'm 100% convinced. Here, I challenge you to stand up after my presentation and say: it is public property, not to name it, but to tell me the essence of what is public property. You hurried to pass this law because someone convinced you that you would get some accession date there and will meet as some condition for joining the EU. It was a co-operation with The Hague before, you know. That is why this law has not been a priority to you before, although you have been announcing it since 2008. Just now, in 2011, we're talking about him. The condition for the EU, you traveled to Brussels for free yesterday, except to take a walk, but it's hard to admit in one day the independence of KIM, you know it very well, so we can pass 300 of these laws, make our legal system crazy and unconsistent, and you won't solve this issue. Since we are a party that believes that Serbia has nothing to look for in this EU and that it is fortunate that President Tadic will go to the nation in the second diary or right after the second diary and at this historic moment says – gentlemen from the EU, we will not be here and such an EU, we do not need the EU that sets our border crossings on our country's territory and writes there - stop, we shoot, I want to defend my territorial integrity and to protect my country and have nothing left to blackmail. The EU is slowly firing. Here, shoot Greece, there's Italy. You saw today, follow what's going on, Spain, Ireland, etc. The euro area is at risk. A sinking ship, and now we're gonna grab hold of it. So, how long are we gonna grab on to something that's sinking? Let's swim once in history. How long are you gonna drag us back? You formed a working group. The working group was very democratically formed by representatives of parties taking part in the government, and there has been chaos again, whether Kostresh handed over a draft or an unconformed draft to the Prime Minister. We see you agree with him yesterday, so you're giving him 22 amendments. You still don't know what you'll have to adopt to pass the law. That says a lot about what the parliamentary majority is like and that the time has come to charge the bills, that is, to keep the promises you made to those who went from the DS to the list so-called. ZES. One of the objections to the SRS, along with this basic one, is that a state which unfortunately does not know what is in its property, although it should have had its own property register since the adoption of that law on assets of citizens in 1995, and this is until 2011 it did not make its own register of property. We hear the province hurried and made a list and delivered it. This was the case in that SFRY, whenever something needed to be withdrawn from Belgrade, Slovenians and Croats came with finished projects, while we took out money from various loans, went there. With a desire to put the whole situation back on track before 1995, before the adoption of this law, you and your coalition partners actually want to return everything to the state of the 1974 Constitution. The constitution saw the Republic of Serbia as tighting Serbia, AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. That's where the property was strictly distributed. Now as a new or uninsurgency, you need to take us back 40 years, so that we can again expect the consequences of what we felt from that 1974 constitution and when the SFRY fell apart. So we can expect that this state of Serbia will also slowly fall apart. As much as anyone claims it's not intentional, we claim it has been since the Statute of Vojvodina, where it was obvious, and here's this law. Obviously, the whole situation is about the law of blackmail. They also give us the right to claim it's going that way. Whether or not someone will succeed will depend, of course, on who will continue to manage this country after the next election, whether someone will be able to correct everything you've done wrong in these 11 years. Since, as you say, the basis for acquiring property here will be state-owned, it means that the province and local self-government and user of these things. As I have already said, this list of all objects on which the AP Vojvodina has the right to use, or over which the specialist AP Vojvodina had until the collapse of the SFRY. So it's back to the past everything, so to the Constitution since 1974, and that's what scares us especially, and we're obliged to say, because, as much as it sounds pessimistic to some, or to suffer from some conspiracy theory, this, or that, or to convince us that someone has no secessionist aspirations, we've so far made sure that we were always right, and all the others who listened or challenged us had an ex-post mind, so sometimes they publicly admitted to us that we were right and sometimes they were just nodding their heads or saying, well, where we were lucky to have listened. We have a problem, even if you pass a law like this, you'll have a problem applying it. He's completely inadmissible. You don't have catastres arranged, first of all. And that's what all Serbs know. Whoever went away from a natural person to do something about his assets could have faced these problems in most cases. If this is some kind of roof law, when these new laws and sublegal acts will be passed, God asks you. It's only in ten years, as far as I can see, as it says in the law, that it will be known by this law or according to your intentions, what it is. You only fill one form - let's pass some property law and no matter what. It's called that. This European agenda will pass and we will move on. How in practice he's going to apply, what consequences he's going to cause, what chaos he's going to make, that's not what you're interested in right now. The elections will be quick, and we'll see what we can do later, as if you'll be in the EU tomorrow. You will never. But what they told you, some tell you that you'll never open up, and some tell you that you're distracting the people, you have about 20 to 25% that believe that, in five, six, seven, or ten years. Because of all this, we're making a mess in the country. It's not a small matter of the property of a state. You're stealing and selling us all out. Now you make more papazian than such important things as property on natural resources, building land, forests, roads, etc. What's the use of that, like the White Palank, that road she's used and taken care of, is now going to be owned by her? What, he won't sell it? He won't sell it. How's he gonna sell it? You're distracting the Duke that you'll return the channels to her. And you're supposed to give them their channels back, but where do they get the money to get them? You didn't have a government register to take them down, and now you're putting them on them, so let them dig and clean them up. It's just-- take it off my back and let it go on the back of another. He's still looking forward to it. He's got some property. You're supposed to take care of property, you're supposed to keep it, you're supposed to invest in it, you have to pay some taxes, you need something. Where'd the money come from? Once again, the SRS really can't support this law. This is only part of the reason I've presented, and colleagues will speak in principle debate and from another aspect look at all the bad parts of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60546	Twenty minutes, thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60547	One look at the Public Property Act that I'm about to present, I think it's quite different from what the public is mostly talking about. I am convinced that behind the story of the Vojvodina and the isolation of the railways, it is, in fact, hidden, and I cannot recognize whether the surface or the intention of the legislators to remain unannounced, available, alienated and other cargo business and public property proceedings. In your own explanation, you admit that this Law on Public Property was necessary to bring. I will state the reason why as economists the most bother me, because in the solutions so far, the funds in the state property they use, for example, public enterprises and capital societies, are practically double-leaded. Why did you not explain the result of such double management and recorded capital and assets in the property of the state, for example, in public enterprises? Did any kind of cost or damage make it for the state? Did the double-leading of the same asset produce increased balances, data on anything? For example, when you have a branch of the bank and its central account, and if the same money appears in two places, so when both branches and centrals issue a loan from the same money, it's called the show and it's called printing money, because from one and the same recorded money, it's twice taken as a source from which credit potential can be broadcast. What's in the sense of this law and in terms of this property is a double display? I can't believe you were doing the Law on Public Property without reading all the dilemmas of respected economists, some still sitting in your circles, which in 1999, in the paper on the Law on Public Enterprises, presented the dilemmas of recording capital and showing in balances and what is called parts of the state, where you throughout the law, do not bear public property, but all the time call them – republic, province, local self-government, I guess that the law would look more gross. You absolutely haven't touched the essential problem, whether the state still wants to retain the right to dispose. When I say state, I mean the Republic of Serbia. The right to dispose of that state property, and I will explain what state property is, or the property of the public that now appears here defined. Does this Republic as a state want to retain the right to dispose, and the right to alienation, and transfer the right to another legal entity, but also the right to change purposes? In that case, which should have been so far, a public enterprise and any other user, or holder of the right to use this property, could not have recorded such property at all in his balance sheet. He could've just run it off the grid. You can't show the same thing twice, you can't have, alienate, change the purpose and business, for example, the Republic. The country's consistently implemented decision, which it wants to make available, and in what way it wants to ensure the control of the resources it will transfer, we at SNS are primarily at local level, or local self-government, and this here is not consistently implemented. No terminology, no clear definition of what alienation, supply and what public property is, and especially what networks are. I'm glad that you've distinguished what's good with general interest and what's good with general use. That was necessary. We have the same amendment. There are many more open things that lead me into a dilemma, whether the Republic government is at all sincere about decentralisation. I don't think so. If we're doing decentralisation from the republican level to the lower, why are you leaving it to be the centralization of the province? This must be property and property up to the level of local self-government, while the level of the province remains the necessary part of the transmission, record and coverage that truly sincerely and consistently implements decentralisation. I'll express my fear, God forbid it's inexcusable, but I think the basic reason for the adoption of the Law on Public Property is the possibility of local self-government to be in charge and broadcast the amniotic bonds that have been told for years. I don't want to, because the life of credit is borrowing and there's no real basis for developing local self-government, the Republic and any level of government at all, at some source called real production, or anything else, but to re-negotiate on borrowing, which allows, and you just said, that EPS can pawn its own assets without the Republic doing it for him. There is no difference exactly because of the arguments you have given in the law itself, which is – it is not true that the consequences of the costs of this law will not be suffered by the citizens, but by those who will need to enroll in the right to use their availability, etc. You say it this way - the specific costs of applying this law are related to the public property registration process and will be secured in the budgets of the level of lower state authorities to which certain public property is transferred and to economic entities whose founder is a state, they will also have the costs of enrolment of property rights, but you say, for the citizens of the application of this law will not generate special costs. How do budgets and public enterprises form and how do self-government budgets form local, province and republican? How, rather than what citizens through taxes, through fees and all other fiscal and other income payments through the price of a product or direct payment of a service that the state introduces. So the cost is recorded, so we're going to write something down. What good will it do? I'm afraid it'll be a shame, but it's a huge cost of future development. Did you provide this law with the possibility that someone in charge, that they could not do what is called good of general interest to pawn or alienate? No, you're not in a good enough way. You're aware of the dangers that exist and you say there's a limit to execution, so that good general use cannot be the subject of execution, but you don't do it consistently. We have amendments that improve that part of the property protection of all of us. What I think is a particular problem is in the end. Article 84 speaks of the conqualification position 2. You even gave the title to that last part of the law, where you're actually trying to convalitate jobs that aren't done in accordance with regulations, which means you're legalizing what's illegal. What's illegal? Well, mostly procurement, alienation, re-purpose, replacement and other resources available to all of us, funds in public property, and you're saying that now the government is going to decide and legalize some of these activities. So instead of talking about whether some channel, part of the railway will be handed over to the Vojvodina to manage, who, now you say in some segments, will manage better, admit that the basic problem is that some illegal things will become legal and admit to us and adopt amendments that you have not even well defined what is in 1998 and 1999 defined as a network, and here in Article 11 of the Law, where you have improved little by amendments, but in fact you have failed to define in accordance with modern achievements everything called a network in general use, not a network that serves an individual, so as such, you can remain in private ownership of it. For example, this is the Article 11 where we suggest that this must be defined in the following way - that the network of fixed things is intended for the transfer of matter, electronic signals and energy in order to distribute them to users and lead them to users, as well as a set of things intended to move means of transport to provide services to users. The definition that you have given in Article 11 has left beyond its domain and the scope of the definition of even the railway. The railroad only appeared in requests from Vojvodina, from the province administration. And then you remembered to name it somewhere. But you have left this way beyond the scope of the definition of previous even urban transport. Do you even have a new definition of infrastructure that is necessary for the transport of passengers by trams and trolleybuses? You have written - roads, but no one mentioned, for example, that the existing tracks or some future constructions are something that must be defined as a network, and therefore protected by the special care of the Republic. Did you mention the subway? No, you're not at all. What I'm particularly concerned about is that you've been investing in capital, you've been talking all day about some prerequisite for a concession law and a precondition for a private-public partnership law, and you've, for example, limited the position of the 14th investment capital. How? You said that a public property rightholder can invest in the capital of a public enterprise and a company, but not for example. through command company. What's the difference? Even when we talked about the Business Society Act, which I really consider to be the greatest sin of this government, because one systemically, large, serious law was not done properly and the opportunity was missed to place many things with roots and a basis where it should be done in the right way. Here, you're doing it right here. You have not properly defined the setting up of co-ownership. You even say that it can be determined in a way not by defining it by law, but you have one formulation that you say – co-opted by law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law declares something good of general interest. Why did such inconsistencies happen, again I don't know, surfaces or intentions? Because you are even in the very name of the law, in Article 1. You did not want to define what the basis for normation is in this law that should produce some positive effects on the citizens of Serbia on all of us, to define the right of public property, but the right of the holder of public property, of which the shape depends, means the right of the bearer. You will not call him one name – bearers of public property, but all the time speak and write – the republic, the property of the province and the local. Why can't it be called a property bearer? And the process of establishing these forms of public property needs to be clearly shown already in the first article is the subject matter and subject matter of this law. Many people do not understand what public property is. I will defend you and say that defining the general interest and what are called good in general use is the most difficult to define and legal norm. That's what anyone who deals with this matter knows, and that's a well-known thing. It was a problem, but it wasn't a problem. What's the problem? You have given the definition of Public Property in Article 2, but in other members, this definition is so ambiguous and unclear that the question is asked – is there any property of the Republic that is not a public property, so that the previous 2008 solutions make the difference between the public property of the Republic of Serbia and the property of the Republic of Serbia? You didn't even try to eliminate the possibility of ambiguity, different interpretations and wrong concepts by defining the basic concepts, which concerns me most. If we stick to that basic interpretation of the Constitution, valid, and language meaning right, it turns out that every state property is actually a public property. However, it is necessary to give immediately after that definition and definition of what the property owners are, the titlers. That's not a foreign word, the titler of property, and you could have made it easier for yourself to write and understand the law of all of us, not to do it all the time and so on. Why didn't you do it? If, for example, we explain to citizens this way – that the right to have and use property is almost equal to the availability and use, remember when you get a car to drive, you use it as if it were yours. What difference does it make if you have the authority to drive that car neatly? Even when you do a lot of damage, the owner will do it. It's the right use. Instead of defining this right for the Republic in a way that it can, apart from what's called a stake in immaterial things, turn it into action, that it has profit or when you're giving it to use some public property, whether it can run, for example, a public enterprise in its books as a cost, because it pays you rent, no, you've left it completely open all these years back as it was, and you're all ready to criticise it. What's another one of the leaks? A member, for example, 16. You've exempt some of the goods from forced execution, but you're not all good at the general interest. You said they were declared such some of the laws. Now, you've made a little bit of a difference with the amendment, but you've only mentioned some, I've said what you've missed to point out as good of general interest in terms of the network, so if we don't exempt it from execution, so tomorrow, when some local self-government is in charge, here's the city of Belgrade, it's not going to be an opportunity, God forbid, but theoretically it can't happen, it's going to be a loan, the subject of non-returning credit can be a Trolleybus infrastructure, or a network, because you didn't count here that it's not all good at all, it's not exclusive of execution. Please, in the moment this is current, pay attention to these remarks. I don't have much time, I'll just say one more detail. You made Article 21 a real galatias, in the sense that the right to use can not be a monetary stake in rights, because this right cannot at all be the subject of forced enforcement, and you had no idea at all, and you know that when a company is founded, especially by a state or a lower level of government, that rights can be both immaterial and not monetary stakes. How will execution be done on them? Since you provide for the acquisition of shares based on these and such investments, can you acquire or increase the share in society on the basis of the right to use? No, you can't, because I made some remarks about it. In the minute that I have left, the way you've excluded the means of security, what military purposes are, what special services use, BIA and everything else, is simply unacceptable. Everything the Public Procurement Act allows, requires and requires to be in the principle of an open procurement process, it must also be in this area where it is possible for the public to be transparent and public, and only part of which is really a security problem should remain, you also know by which EU directives are defined in another procedure. So, the problem of public property is not whether Vojvodina will have one rail or interregional road, but whether the funds of the Republic of Serbia are even managed, whether the re-purpose, replacement, grant without compensation to anyone is done in such a way that the damage is not suffered by the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic. A lot's open. You'll have the opportunity to fix the amendments we've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60548	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60549	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a public property debate on the agenda. We expected a law that will be regulated and bring a number of newspapers that we all expect in Serbia. However, we have received one draft law from the government, which has been destroyed and over 20% of the members of the law have been amended by amendments given by the same government, i.e. a compromise has been made between the province authorities, the authority of the AP Vojvodina. There was a law that now doesn't look like the first version the government has submitted and planned. It is inappropriate for the 90 members of the law, by the same government that is proposing this law, to accept 18 amendments submitted by the province's authorities, who wanted to make it known that they would vote if all these amendments were adopted, which the government had to do. At this point, the law is a compromise between the republic and the province government, for the Republic government to last another month and to adopt what could not be adopted, which could not be accepted and adopted, but through these amendments, this government extended its century to last as long as possible, i.e. until the end of the term of office. The compromise was made, so a good law expected by Serbia was completely amended. We now have a law that is something completely new, which is one deal, which was made to keep this government as long as possible and stay. We expected this law to be done to decentralise state property and that local authorities would best pass, because they would get one real decentralisation, where municipalities and cities would get a leading role in all this. After all this, however, we have to decentralised Belgrade, and Novi Sad is increasingly centralizing and getting some of the information Belgrade had before. The municipalities and cities won't get any maltenes in all of this. Through discussions, we heard that some railway land in Serbia is irrelevant. That railway land in Serbia is very important, Mr. Djelic. It is 15% of Serbia's territory, which is the size of today's Kosovo. Roads, corridors and everything else is the same, because it crosses over 15%. This isn't about some property that's going to be given to someone, prescribed, credited, etcetera, to management, for sale. Even more so, there is a form of alienation and gifts, if it is of interest to a particular territory, etc. When you add only these two types of land, rail and road, it's over 30% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it's an extremely important law that regulates all those vital functions of one state. We're talking now that it doesn't matter that way, it's the second row, this is the first row, this third row, etc., but in this country everything matters. I've been listening to press conferences for certain political parties that were giving outside the hall, certain politicians who celebrate the victory, they've succeeded, they've done something big. What's done? Nothing. There's no decentralisation. What's he gonna get out of this Apatin, what's Sombor gonna get, what's gonna get some cities, get a Grain, get a kickinda, get a Saturday, etc.? He won't get anything. They'll get someone else who'll have the right to alienate, sell, raise loans, stock up, etc. And of course, no one takes the responsibility of this country until something has been done, built, and now that something has been built, created, they want to own it and to use it in their own way as they think it's most favourable. That's why one law, Mr. Djelic, which changes by more than 20% of the amendments in favour of a political option that has publicly conditioned that it will not vote, if it is not done, must be withdrawn from the procedure. That's perfectly normal. It is abnormal to accept anyone's blackmail and say – here are the laws that have not passed, we couldn't vote, let's accept this now, and we will vote all of this in the package, so that we can continue until New Year's or until January, until elections are discussed, and that price for Serbia is very high. That price will have to be paid later. Someone's gonna have to pay, and who's gonna pay? State, people, citizens. Therefore, we cannot suffer blackmails of a variety of nature here so that we can accept someone. Please, this is where the capital fund of Vojvodina was said. And who gave the funds to the Duke's capital fund? He gave it to the NIP, in the assessment he was assigned to. It's a means, so now everyone can look for their own piece and it doesn't lead to anything. This leads only to one political option that will rule there and that is based on various benefits, discounts, etc. He's been smuggling on a political scene for years and it's been going on and the people are getting harder and harder to live. It's hard to live in Vojvodina, too. In some cities much harder than in southern Serbia. Look at you and do a little analysis of how you live in Sid, in the Mountainyard, in all sorts of places across the duchess where people work. We say here, some land where the cane is. And you know how much this Serbia cost the Danube-Tisa-Dunav system? I remember as a young engineer, I worked on all the bridges on the Danube-Tisi-Dunav and I know how much it cost this Serbia and how much it was paid. Now you're gonna give it to someone to boss so they can sell it and resell it and stock it and make a concession, etc. We have Corridor 7, which is an extremely large capital of this state. It's the Danube. Now that someone lightly Dunav, Podunavlje, Posavina, can boss whoever they want. What's it going to be like now, one coast is controlled by one government and the other one has transferred the intelligence to the other bank? How are we going to make the Sava waterway when it's up to the middle of the river province and this is where the Republic of Serbia is, and there's no jurisdiction for the other half? How are we gonna do that waterway? That same applies to the Danube, in this part of Belgrade towards the border with Romania. Therefore, this law will create a series of problems. A series of problems that will bring some political points to a certain option to survive and say – here, we conditioned it and got it and did it. This will make us one such confusion in the owner, in business. Do you believe us? We built a bridge on Savi. It's great when they made it for the Republic of Serbia and when you transferred the information to Vojvodina, jurisdiction and what happened? Two years' worth couldn't be done, and building a bridge lasted a year, paperwork, the rest. Now you have to go to Pitiæ's, you say, get all the papers back on the bridge. Two years and a third is just done, to get some sleep, so that a built bridge can climb and it can be used, to get traffic. So this is not good, and that is why it's my very big disappointment, because this is not the original law that we've been talking about. This is the law of compromise. The law, whoever thought of having an MP to ask for something, you had to accept to pass the law. One amendment was enough to refuse and the law would not pass. And you had to accept everything like that and in this legal mess, you don't know what's important anymore, what's irrelevant, what's important, what's irrelevant. Most of us now have some law that will show Europe that we have agreed on something, and some next parliament will have a lot of problems or some future government will put it all in order and correct it. I expected one decentralisation that you most, Mr Djelic, promised, which is that the masters in their territory become cities and municipalities, and not now some other government bodies, so now we have a minister from Vojvodina who is in charge of Serbia but is not in charge of Vojvodina, in many segments, take spatial planning, ecology, construction, urbanism, etc. And you now, how do we get out of this stalemate that we've entered and how do we solve a lot of problems that are extremely big. All of this makes it difficult to build and slow down construction. You're going to have to do three double jobs now. Please, here's a concrete example. As the city of Belgrade builds a bridge and is not a competent minister, a particular ministry, or otherwise, no one asks them anything. Does anyone in the government ask you about that? The concept of traffic development across the bypass and bridges drawn in the government and the ministry is contrary to Belgrade's city as a whole. You can't agree with that. Here's what anybody gets to do. The city of Belgrade is a state in the state, Vojvodina will now be a state in the state, Serbia, we here in parliament. Where are we in charge, what part of the territory? Are we in charge of the Duke's territory? Do our decisions here apply to Vojvodina? They don't work. Everything the Vojvodina has brought you, you've had to accept it, and you'll vote most of the time and satisfy a group that conditiones you, the government falls if you don't adopt it. So, we're going to get a law here that I don't know why it's going to serve here, a law that's going to make so many problems, but we're going to tell some people in Brussels, here we passed the law, and they're going to say, well, it doesn't matter what you adopted, and they're going to think it's one serious law, so when we promised we promised decentralisation of property, that cities and municipalities would get property. They won't get it here. They won't get it because they won't know who's in charge, who's in charge, etc. Now take the reconstruction of the Panchea Bridge, which is under way. How can you solve it? Up to half a river one government, and from half a river another government. Up to half a river, one piece of paper, and from half a river, another piece of paper. How can you unite it all and agree? Not at all. I'm telling you practically, who's going to clean up, because I remember when I was in the government, the funds were allocated to clean up the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. Is it clean? It's not. Why are the floods? Because they haven't been cleaned and brought into a series of channels. Who pays the price, who spends the money. The price is paid by the Republic of Serbia. When damage occurs, the government has to accept it and fix it and put it in order. So this isn't all going well. Because of the relations I talked about and the city of Belgrade towards the state, the province of Vojvodina, we cannot solve a series of problems, for 20 years Prokop cannot be solved because of the problems I've been talking about. You can't solve the bridges, you can't solve the water Sava, you can't solve the Danube, you can't solve many problems. You know that now the Danube penetrates Apatino and attacks part of the territory and threatens the city. That's, they say, an investment where Serbia should earn money? Who, after all this is done and done, is going to run, charge, settle, because there's going to be some marinas, Beds, Protection and all that, and then there's going to be a province showing up and saying, thank you for making us, you've been very kind, and we're going to use it now. Therefore, so many of the bypasses that have been made around the city, because I remember taking a detour with Zrenjanin, how can you now do something that Serbia has done with the loan of this state and the citizens of Serbia to make someone available? You now give for this little handful of power whatever you're asked to do. You'll be giving and it'll get us into as much trouble as possible and you'll be in the next law as it is, and in the next one, you'll always make concessions, because a certain group has squeezed you, and you don't know how to subdue and say, there's a red line here, we can't let go any further. Let the government, my God, fall is not the first time the government has fallen, because the government has fallen, chosen a new one, and Serbia has lasted. And with these choices, early, regular, but it's important to you that it lasts and you don't ask for the price. The price is high, because we will have big problems and I believe that, Mr. Djelic, as an experienced politician who's been in the government for a very long time, do not allow any blackmail, that the law of the first one you gave, made public, presented to the public, brought back, not put up with blackmail and bring that law into the first version to parliament, and this law which is one compromise, which is made between various political options, you withdraw from the procedure and return the old law we discussed. I expect that this should be done by every serious government, and I believe that Serbia is still a serious state and that you should be one serious government and when it proposes a law, that no one can simply change half the law, change the main points and come to the adoption of a brand-new law that has nothing to do with the initial version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60550	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60551	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think we are all in agreement about having an extremely important law in front of us today, because that law, objections exist, from different angles, but this law finally defines what is and in what way it can or should not be available in Serbia. As for this law, the basis for the adoption of this law is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 86 who speaks of the forms of property and, among other things, speaks of public property. The article defines that public property can be state property, AP property, and local self-government. In that sense, this law is consistent, as far as the Constitution is concerned. So, the Constitution is the starting point for the adoption of every law, including this law, but it is also the limit for those solutions that are proposed by law, because everything that the Constitution did not foresee or limit, cannot be regulated by law, and we all mean it. We do not dispute that this law is important for the Republic of Serbia for one reason, it is important because in 1995, by adopting the Law on Property owned by the Republic of Serbia, all property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has passed into state property and thus the illusion that there is a decentralised state, the illusion that there are local self-governments that are supposed to be doing something and have something to do. If someone with jurisdiction has no property, no property, no real jurisdiction can be spoken of. That is why this law is important from the point of view of meeting the constitutional principle, I remind you, decentralisation, and the transfer of power to local self-government and AP levels. When we talk about this, there are always two concepts of thinking, two concepts of the state, one that thinks that a decentralised state, a weak state, is powerless to defend itself against the separatist aspirations and other concepts that think that every form of centralization is essentially bad and that everything that exists should be decentralised and transferred to lower levels of organization and governance. Whenever we have a society where there are these two opposing attitudes, I always think the best solution that makes the best possible compromise between these two opposing positions, making sure that the functionality of some systems is maintained, that a single decision-making system is maintained when it comes to certain vital things and when it comes to the state, and on the other hand, that everything it can and which is logical to be at lower levels of decision-making, to move to these lower levels of decision-making. At the same time, for us this law is important and because we are harmonising, we have the interest and desire for Serbia to comply with European standards. This is not important to us alone because of the fact that we want to become a full member of the EU. We do not hide, we want Serbia to become a full member of the EU as soon as possible, but this is important to us also because we think that EU countries have handled many issues in the best way from the population to achieve the basic principles of democratic society. That's why we want to look up to these countries and build, by these standards, Serbian society, as a society of developed democracy. What is defined by this law is that the law determines who the holder of the property is, at the same time, defines how to manage and dispose of the property, which means to define what it is that cannot be the subject of alienation, establishing and what the content of what is public property is. So it's not true, and it just shows that some people don't read the law, even though they discuss it in a warm way, it's not true that it's not defined what the content of the property is. It is very clearly defined what is all the content of public property and it is even specified what is meant under public property as special continents – natural wealth, good of general interest in public property, network. What I find extremely important is whether this law defines in the best possible way what cannot be alienated? I think it's the interest of every country to take care of what's most important for its economic, political and any other survival. In that sense, in my view, the definition of what cannot be the subject of alienation covers everything that is the most important resources of the state, and I don't think that in this sense there is anyone's observation that everything that is a Serbian wealth, everything that is of some kind of resources, will be sold out and given to someone else, because this law says that natural wealth can't be the subject of alienation, that good in general use can't be the subject of alienation, that networks in public property can't also be the subject of alienation, that water land, therefore, talks about someone controlling one side of the river and another side of the river is completely unfounded, because in natural wealth and good of general interest is clearly defined as natural wealth and what is good of general interest and that is property of the Republic of Serbia. It is said further that natural goods in public property cannot be alienated, as well as cultural goods in public property. Maybe something else is dropped, maybe something else is important, which is a general interest, and it should be reminded of that, but what's important for us is that the most important resources and what's the legacy that we have to keep for the next generations and the greater good can't be alienated. I'd like to say that these criticisms that something has not been done since 1995, and when they come from those in power and they haven't done it, then I'm interpreting it as a self-critic rather than a criticism directed to whoever's doing it right now. All those who were able to solve this issue in 1995 and failed to resolve it, and they talk about how it is now on the agenda, I guess they speak for themselves and their role in moments when they were in government and did not do what they could. What is also a politically incorrect transfer of responsibility is a story about how this law exempts Kosovo from Serbia. To remind me, Kosovo was excluded from Serbia by the Kumanovski Agreement in 1990, after the bombing, by an agreement signed as a capitulation. And in that sense, from that moment on, unfortunately, the state of Serbia with its institutions is not in full capacity, if it is at all present in Kosovo and there is no possibility of managing the property located in Kosovo. So I just don't think it's right to deceive people about how something is now giving up, not admitting it's already lost. There are a lot of amendments to this law. On its own, our parliamentary group has submitted some amendments, and I believe that in our discussion with the Government's representative, we will consider these amendments and see how to make this law more effective, more precise, how, starting with the Constitution, it will be filled with all constitutional capacity and all possibilities of the autonomy of the Vojvodina and the rights of local self-government. That is why we in principle support this law, believing that it may not be a complete step, but we believe that it is a big step towards, above all, meeting what are constitutional provisions, and, on the other hand, meeting what is a European standard when it comes to defining property and when it comes to defining the right of local self-government and autonomous provinces to have, manage and own property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60552	Ten minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Do any of the other presidents or representatives, who didn't use the law, want a word? If not, I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the Manjin parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the SRS-JS parliamentary group, the URS parliamentary group, the MEP group for European Serbia, the DSS parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia and the New Serbia parliamentary group, and we move on to part of the session when the words have MPs, in order and in line with the statements for the word in the principle of the draft law on public property. (16.20 hours) First reported is MP Bajram Omeragic. After him is the word of the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60553	The Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bosniak List For European Sandzak will support this law because it is on the list of laws that brings us closer to the EU, and that is, as is known, our first criterion when we decide whether to support a law or not. Of course, this law should have been passed much earlier. We have advocated that this law be passed many times before and many times insisted because this law is one key law that simply gives meaning to local government and the province government and that is one of the conditions, so to speak, essential decentralisations in both political, economic and other terms. Therefore, this law, according to us, should be supported because it, especially at the local level, and even at the province level, will make all those procedures that have so far been tied to the local community because it is not the holder of property in this way have no property either. The local community, or local self-government, has been in a situation where many procedures have to be extended, it has to wait, it has to solve with republican bureaucracy in a very long and complicated way, and this law, according to us, will shorten this procedure and simply, foreign companies that are coming, domestic companies that want to invest, and that for a partner they need to have a local community and local self-government, that simply this law will allow the investment process to be shortened in this sense. Public private partnership I think this law will speed up, that it will make everything simple to shorten and that we can simply influence local economic development and that the current bureaucratic principle, as all MPs know, all those who have worked in local self-government, know that this procedure of seeking consent, from the Property Directorate, for some procedure that wants to do local self-government for months, to the conclusion of the government that is allowed or not allowed to do anything. I think this law, apart from bringing us closer to the European Union, will speed up investment in the public sector. We've talked a lot here these days, and we're talking about the railroad today, as far as we're concerned in Sandzak, we're not really having a problem with property and property. The Deputy Prime Minister says we don't have a railroad. We have a problem with our regional centre of Novi Pazar 20km Raška-Novi Pazar is the route to be invested by the Republic of Serbia. It hasn't been done so far, and we've insisted on it many times. This was also about highways, as far as Sandzak is concerned, we don't have that problem, that we're dealing with whose property it's going to be and how it's going to control and who's going to maintain and what's going to happen to it, because we don't have any highways either. We don't even have an airport, we don't actually have any key infrastructure facilities. The question is, how do we expect this most underdeveloped region simply to get away from severe underdevelopment and simply that the degree of unemployment pressured by Sandzak cannot be resolved, until we have invested in key and infrastructure facilities for which local self-government, not now, it will not be able to invest in, it is simply known that it can only be done from republican funds, i.e. the republican budget? This law, as I said, will contribute to perhaps some of the procedures being shortened, and that the Republic must start investing in Sandzak. This law, according to us, should make it possible for citizens to improve and simply distract citizens from participating in political life at a local level, in a more quality way. Since local self-government has so far not had the property, we have had the situation that local elections are being devised, just because the local assembly is going to discuss sewerage, plumbing, that it simply is not able to make some strategic decisions, and there are no strategic decisions where a local self-government has no property and has no right to property over the means to be available, and thus, it affects its faster and economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60554	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60555	Ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, it is unacceptable for the Serbian Radical Party to discuss this law in this form and therefore we will not vote for this law. Why is he unacceptable? I'll try with more arguments to point out to the public what's important and what's meant by this law. The law is incomplete. He's vague, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and as such, he's inadmissible. You won't be able to apply it, and we'll see about that. We'll get the changes and supplements by the end of the year. This law is one big nothing. This is only one compromise with economic powers, financial powers and political powers, and that, mostly from Vojvodina, and especially with Prime Minister Mr. Pajtic, who put you in a small pocket. He's the boss of the Duke, and he's clearly telling you, not with his mouth, but with this man's coalition partners. You were forced only by him, his attitude and his relationship to the central government to bring such an inconsistencies, incomplete and unclear law. What's important is to point out and what the public needs to know is that in 2000, you promised to pass this law. Now some members of the coalition say – after 16 years we pass the law. Who was stopping you? You've held power for 12 years. Who prevented you from passing this law? You have a constitutional obligation. In 2006, the constitution inaugurated public property, implanted public property in its provisions. What were you waiting for? In the 2008 agenda, you had to build, upgrade, rework everything that was related to state property, install public property, legalize it, innovate existing laws, bring new law, but not in this way, with such a long period of time, period of waiting. What do individual representatives of the current government say? They say the following -- several billion euros lost local self-government. If that's true, then someone has kidnapped the local self-government of billions of euros. Who's the one who stole the local self-government several billion euros? Where are you from the government to say - we stole it from local self-government, we kidnapped it from local self-government, and we have to give it back to her. Is that true? You have to change your mind and say – local self-government is damaged, the province is damaged and we have to return it. You don't pay back anything through this law in financial terms. I'll explain later what is the essence in the financial sense and the basis of this law. What's our practice? It was best presented to us by the DRI, which said when it controlled the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate, it found that there was no record, there is no register of state property. Tell me now, what country has such practice? Tell me, can we get that back to a micro-continental host in this country or any country in the world who doesn't know what its mobile property is and what its immovable property is? You're in power, and you don't know what state property is, or now public property. You don't know. Mrs. Kolundjia, I ask you, you are the president of a political party in parliament, what is the property of this House? Do we have a record of that? Do we have any real value? We don't. It doesn't have a government, and it doesn't have any state institutions. Since you don't, it's tragic. We don't know the value of this system and this society. For me, this is more of a medieval gift or gift charter, nothing else. It's one empty nothing, one empty promise that the province, or local self-government, will get something. Why is it important what I have pointed out forward, why is it important and why is it coming now, why is the law now being passed? Mr. Djelic, as Deputy Prime Minister, you know very well why this law is passed. Not because of the EU agenda, it has been going through various agendas in the last four five years. The important thing is that local self-government has been deprived of certain resources that are failing it, and you know it very well. A certain correction was made through the Law on decentralisation and financing of local self-government. For the last three years, between 2009 and today, local self-government has been seized about 600m euros. Here, I will now read to you what the Vice-President of the Government of Vojvodina, Istvan Pastor, says. He says: "Vojvodjan's finances have been damaged in the last five years by 36 billion dinars," it is somewhere near, as it has been in the last five years, about 500m euros. The funds remained in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Who's responsible for this? Mr. Djelic, when you explained this law you had to say - this is how we take what we took from them, what we took from them, what we didn't transfer to them, now we compensate for it. Who in this system and society has the right and the possibility and the responsibility to deny a particular asset? You see, you do it, you do it for the province. He says that for 2011, the Capital Investment Fund was supposed to receive 10.2 billion dinars, with only six months of billions and 400 million dinars. Who's responsible for this? Are there any people in charge? The government is responsible, you are responsible. You are a mess of following up on everything provided for by the Budgetary System Act, the Budget Law. You're violating the provisions of those laws, those rules. In five years, you denied the province of these 36 billion dinars. If that's not true, then Mr. Pastor must answer. Is he gonna answer? He won't. Will one who has not made all payments, as foreseen by the Budget Law 2007 and 2008 etc? No one's gonna answer. Look what you've brought this company to. What's most tragic? Most tragically, we don't have a property register, we don't know the value of the property, and on the other hand, huge assets have been taken from us. Who took her? They took the other republics, 1990, 1991 and 1992. In 2004, the Succession Agreement entered into force, where the former republics agreed to find common solutions through the succession process, to share former joint, state, social property belonging to the SFRY or republics. I'm asking you now - what have you done since 2001 when it was signed, that is, in 2004, when the Sucession Agreement came into force? The interstate committee that acts does nothing, or our representative, who is in that interstate committee, does nothing, and neither does the commission formed by the government. If it was luck, we'd have a complete situation today. What's the funding? It's a huge asset. In Croatia alone, there remained about 1.8 billion euros in the value of the assets of enterprises that had, municipalities, cities and so on, which had certain assets. Do these legal entities have that property? They don't have it. What is the situation with companies, i.e. the property of Croatian companies? The moment you went into the sales procedure, that is. In the period 2007 and 2008, the Prime Minister was Kostunica, you were busy with complaints, complaints from diplomatic representatives from the Republic of Croatia, and you put all of this out of force. Our property in one and a half times the value lies there, no objection, no conversation. I must mention here the property of Serbs who have been expelled by the genocide activities of the Croatian state, which is still there today, to tens of billions of euros. Who's taking care of it? Is that defined by the Sucession Agreement? Yes, it is. Who's implementing this agreement? Nobody. It's our reality. What is the essence of this law? What exactly are you giving the province, or local self-government? You will give a certain property that will be rural, or local. But why is it given? Only to strengthen the province's balances, or local self-government. Current balances do not allow borrowings. That's the point. By strengthening the province's balance sheet and local self-government, they will be able to borrow and will be able to place mortgages on the property. Who's gonna stock up on that property and on the other hand be able to make the sale? If it's the point of selling, we know what's been done for the last 10, 15 years. It wasn't a sale, it was a donation, giving below all costs. That's the point. Now you're talking about how it's going to develop when it's passed on, etc. What's going on? The assets to be invested in are transferred. Can local self-government invest? He can't. Here I will read to you the current state in financial terms of local self-government – the state of 31 December 2010, the total responsibility of local self-government is 66 billion, of which only the city of Belgrade is 48.5 billion. It is already 75 billion, or 750m euros. Is the local self-government solvency to carry this burden? It's not solvable. You will strengthen it in this way, they will get the opportunity to be in charge. Is it the sense that they are developing certain activities in the field of municipal economy? No, the point is just borrowing. It's the same situation in the province. I have a few sentences to say about the current state of affairs in the area of the municipal economy, it's very important, because by this law, you're going to allow both municipal enterprises and the communal economy to get some property, and it's going to enter that property. Preparations are now being made for the privatisation of the municipal sector and part of the municipal system will be sold with this property that you are now giving. Who are you meeting, Serbian citizens? No, I don't. Serbian citizens are not interested in privatising the municipal sector. They are interested in a serious commercial enterprise that is developing, which has a cheap service. Will she get all that through privatisation? He won't. This will be another attack on the naked economic life, the naked communal life and the creation of preconditions to go out to tycoons, to come up through a certain kind of privatisation with a certain property and thus naked and this troubled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60556	The word has the People's MP Bojan Đuric, followed by Mr Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60557	Dear Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the few MPs you've stayed in the O.R., that's usually how this... I haven't made the difference between my MPs and your MPs, I don't think there's any need for that kind of reaction in this room. I wanted to talk to Mr. Djelic, if that's possible and to commend one part of what Mrs. Kolundzija was talking about for a moment. But if you think that this is the way to talk about this law, just a few days before the EU's decision on candidacy, I hear it's going to work for the weekend, then it's talking about your European capacity, I won't look back on it anymore. That is why I think it may be a little unnatural to have this debate today, and that in the next two days or a few days, together with the debate on amendments, we are also discussing the Law on Restitution, that is, this second law on the return of property to churches and religious communities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think that these are related laws, i.e. that this today's and these debates that will follow connect only one thing in common, which is that they are a condition on our European path. Besides, that's why you, Mr. Djelic, are in charge of preparing them and defending them here in parliament. I don't think that's necessarily bad. We talked about this law and the laws that will come on the agenda, and I think the fact that you've been dealing with this law has helped repair some of the controversial parts, maybe in the last phase, maybe a little late, but better ever than never. Many MPs who spoke in the afternoon and afternoon session are in a sense right. I'd say the biggest problem with this law is that we all know that it's going to be kind of a vision or that it won't have its essence if we don't fill it with some real content in the next year, two, three. I think it's kind of visible between Articles 4 and 89. Article 4 states that the provisions of the law governing the right of private property are applied to the acquisition, exercise, protection and termination of the right of public property. That's a great provision. The problem is that for decades this country has not had such a law, there is no basic law in the field of real law, to say it to that legal dictionary. There are also those problems that Mrs Tabakovic spoke of and tried partially to respond to Mrs Kolundzija. Article 89 is just a story to himself. He says that until the international administration ceases to function on KIM, the law will not apply there. Both you and I and everyone in this hall know that no kind of end of the international administration in Kosovo will lead to this situation that Serbia can do this or any similar law regarding public property in full capacity to apply in Kosovo. Why is that a problem? Because then in the last weeks of the debate on this law comes, at the very least, in an awkward situation, that the President of the Republic intervenes, I first saw it on Vojvodin TV, I don't know if it's an accident, that it won't sign a law on public property that allegedly degrades the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia or threatens it. The law on public property or its application on the territory of Vojvodina can never be compensated for the fact that this law and all other laws of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied in Kosovo. On that day, we came into a very unpleasant situation, which I don't think we should keep quiet, regardless of whether this law will eventually be passed, and it is obvious that, with certain amendments and hopefully those submitted by the LDP, it will be adopted. So then the Prime Minister's office issued a statement denying the allegations that appeared in public, that before that an agreement was reached with representatives of the Vojvodina administration and days were being made on amendments and yesterday afternoon we had a session of the government, telephoned, if I understood correctly, which adopted 18 amendments. I am not looking forward to this error in the steps because this gives an argument for attacks on you, on the law and on this government, to those who are not particularly interested or are not overly enthusiastic about Serbia getting candidate status this year or any other year. I do not think that the issue of public property is a matter of sovereignty or a question of railway infrastructure. We remember that a few years ago, Serbia at some point in this emeritus patriotism or the return of sovereignty in the KIM territory, if I remember somewhere in early March 2008, Mr Ristivojevic, at the time the adviser to the Prime Minister and the president of the UO JP of the "Train of Serbia", entered northern Kosovo on a train and re-established Serbia's sovereignty over the railway infrastructure. There will never be such a situation with Vojvodina, whether there are railways of the Vojvodina or not. There is no need for such an atmosphere or such fear to be generated in our public at all. I think that much bigger problems are public enterprises, that is, that part of the public sector that is regulated by this law. That is why we have proposed an amendment that for the first time introduces an explicit provision in our legal system on how to manage or manage goods in general, which are entrusted to public enterprises, because it is the subject of this law. I remind you that these are key companies in this country. It is also the EPS, it is also the "Serbian Roads", it is also the "Serbian Railways", all those companies in which the atmospheres of the past years have been so great and numerous that I am really surprised that those who, at least politically, were responsible for managing these companies today, I will not say the opportunities, there is still this institution of immunity in our parliament, but even if they had to warn about what is happening today or that they regret these times when they managed it. This law cannot be reduced to these more or less accounting issues, to what has been pointed out very often here. There are also important questions about enrolment, deadlines for enrolment, etc., but this is, above all, political law. I think you, with that ambition, came before this Parliament to defend him. However, given what kind of objections came, first of all from the ruling coalition, I am afraid that at the end of one consistent law, there will not be much left and that the effect of most norms will be, in particular, like that of Article 89, which I was talking about. It is a realistic argument or justification in some situations that the Constitution quite rigidly defines these issues, but other than LDP and LSV, no one else in this Parliament has the right to protest against such a constitution, or to call upon it. Those parties that have made this kind of compromise by binding Serbia and its European future and hands and feet to those provisions of the Constitution do not have the right to such a kind of argument. What is said here about urban municipalities, the Constitution does not define urban municipalities as units of local self-government, and then a whole series of rules regarding property management cannot be applied differently. It's hard enough to bring order into a country like this, a country with a legacy like this. I don't think he should be hostile to Vojvodina, even when from there comes a kind of nostalgia that may not be in everything real, but it's still the only part of the country that has an orderly system of land books in this country. We're trying to pass a public property law in the middle that has 700,000 pending legalisation requests. The introduction of order into such chaos is not an easy job and it will not be completed by this law. Any kind of populism, whether it's nationalally colored or based on the idea that a powerful centralized state and that state register will replace the well-being of decentralisation through the state system at the top, so the autonomous provinces below, so the city, the city municipalities, and finally the local community, such as the new intensity, to the housing and entrance of buildings, I just don't think it's real. In this concept there may be more room for all political parties, which, as Mr. Vukic would say, is for us from a political class of good, but I don't think it's good for the citizens anyway. I guess what's good for citizens is good for the Republic of Serbia, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60558	Mr. Sreto Peric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60559	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Djelic, this is the most dangerous proposal that has come to the National Assembly. Someone today said there is a continuity between the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia and this proposal. Thank God that there was this law, because if it hadn't been for a long time we wouldn't have had any public property or state property, this would have already been torn apart, as you intended, so it's a good thing that this Fund Act existed in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, because it had a big impact on the preservation of state property. Today, we had the opportunity to hear the MP Mladjan Dinkic, otherwise a longtime guardian of the keys of the state register of the Republic of Serbia, which spoke one, practically, problem from the municipality of Mali Zvornik. It is true that the request for the expansion of the cemetery in Mali Zvornik was submitted by the president of the municipality that was from the DS to this current government, that there was no answer to that question, and it was a private property. It seems to me that Mladjan Dinkic best painted the trombone and incompetence of this government. I suppose you'll believe him more, you who sit here and support that government than you trust the MPs of the SRS, and our goal is to explain to the citizens what kind of danger we're talking about here today. Is it possible for you who are for Eurointegration, and here you are trying to disperse? And do you know what the point is, I would be a very happy and proud man if I could cheer up the citizens of Serbia, and also the presidents of municipalities and mayors, that they could benefit from this law. But since we in the U.S.S., we paint and fear the colors and live life as it is, we can't talk about what they would like to hear, but we need to talk about what it is and what's expected from here. Since the government has realized that it is unable in any way to help the citizens of Serbia, including those presidents of municipalities, and even those mayors who are mostly also from the parties who support this government, they have said – here is a little dust in your eyes we bring a law on property, from there you will be very nice, nothing we have not been able to do to you so far, you must have voted the people for you, and as Mr Djelic said, citizens have chosen a power that can make their lives more prosperous. But you said to Mr. Djelic, of course, when you send these messages and two other things that many during this reading of this law may not have been able to discover, and this is what this is about, when this is passed if you vote this law, when this is passed on to your local self-governments, the AP that they're going to be able to borrow. I now aim to declare the general views of the SRS under this bill, but of course it would make it stronger I will occasionally quote certain provisions of this law that you adopted in the government to see that we are not telling our story, but simply what you are proposing to us. And since in my presentations I love and gladly call on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to repeat only once in a short while what forms and types of property we have in general. And our Constitution said it was a private, cooperative and public property, and you are now working through this bill on how and how it should be divided to define and specify certain things. But you see, I cannot without quoting article 26 of this bill, which says – and the title above article 26. is the notion of availability. The availability of things in public property within the meaning of this law is considered to be giving things to be used, no big deal perhaps, giving things in lease transfer of public property rights to another public property bearer including the exchange. And that's what you're saying here, including the exchange, but the other public property bearer. But there's a point 4 of this bill said - alienating things from public property and there's no limit here to which things can be transferred from public property, there can be some private, physical persons, some tycoons like here say that agricultural land, water, water, water facilities, etc. are excluded from this law and will be regulated by a special law and you know that in Vojvodina there are hundreds of hectares, including several thousand hectares that people have been renting agricultural land for a long time for 100 years and what they should pay rent for 99 years in one year have received subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, that's how it's supposed to be for certain people to meet, to meet certain people, to start a mortgage on real estate. Here's what the minister was talking about, he'll be able to set up a number of municipalities to pawn the country roads and be guaranteed to lend a loan. It's stories, not even for little kids, I don't know who you thought you were. The transferable property to the AP and the local self-government unit here mentions the word "entity", what is your intention? Do you know what problems entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have, so where you're taking this country, so isn't the problem we already have enough, and no one can blame you for that problem that stands and tell vain stories from the agenda, that's what Parliamentarian Balint Pastor told you, what is the condition and what the goal is. And this morning in the form of a parliamentary issue, MP Dragan Todorovic said and showed that the Cypriots are trying and that they are struggling to have complete control over the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and why we haven't tried to realise resolution 1244 for 11, 12 years. This was not your goal, and you did not want to do this and yet say that these solutions are in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which the Republic of Serbia has ratified and, among other things, assumed and committed to providing local self-government with sufficient resources to perform its functions. Will something from Belgrade be passed on to local self-government fellow Ilic in Žaguca, will something be transferred to Krupanj, will these local self-governments have any of it? Well, they won't, so in Mali Zvornik municipality, one playground will be returned and you're trying to trick someone, and the SO building will continue to serve that purpose. If it hadn't been for the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, I'm not sure we wouldn't be sitting in this building today and maybe paying the rent. That was the intention and you're on your way. Furthermore, the highest level of protection of public property that has so far been corrupt as if it were nobody's provisions of Article 6 and let's look at what the provision of Article 6. It's a bill of law. Please just one moment: "Anyone who decides on matters in public property that uses them or controls them is obliged to act as a good host and is responsible for it in accordance with the law. "What happened to the treatment of so far-good hosts? Will a good host make a decision to answer, will he go to jail? No, you don't care, and the fact that you've provided for very low fines if someone in the AP, the local self-government, makes the wrong decision to rent or alienate public property, will be sanctioned with 100,000 dinars, suggests that the goal is that what has a little more corruption, but the SRS will never give such support to anyone who counts on it, and otherwise, if it is to preserve the interest of Serbian citizens in trying to fix living standards. We'll stand on that side and support something like that. This is terrible, I don't think you should even think about it. Some traffic experts, Mr. Djelic, movables and immovable things, estimate that the Public Property Fund will decrease on an annual basis, i.e. change the form of property from public to private property from three to even seven percent. The basis for our claim is found in Article 4. A bill that says that protection in the termination of public property rights will be subject to the provisions of the law governing the right of private property, if something else is not laid down by this law. Don't you mathematicians now say that public property in Serbia will absolutely disappear from 14 years and two months if up to 7% a year turns into private property or maybe 33 years, if that goes 3%, where we will absolutely be left without public property. I'm going to say one more thing, I guess this and other buildings will remain, but also legally observed, legal nomotechnics in the making of this law seem like they're not in the ranks of first year of law school students. There's a lot of general places, you say in a lot of places, it's gonna be like that unless it's meant by other laws, but you've done it skillfully. So, who first made the draft of this law, then the government that passed the bill, they were also consciously going to leave the possibility of changing the form of property with some other regulations. What happens to the property where the MZ is, for example? In the old days, the cults built something to which it would belong? What's gonna happen to that? You think they can, the sooner I said, give them instead of the Republic of Serbia as a guarantee or a mortgage. He won't. I think you're trying, I hope you're unable to pass on your responsibility to someone else, but the fact is that this bill came to the National Assembly on September 6th, and yesterday on September 19th, the government adopted 18 amendments to its own, 18 amendments to this law suggest Mr. Djelic, that you don't know what you're doing, is it possible that so much has changed in 14, 15 days, and I have to tell you, that this may be for you, when it comes to citizens of Serbia, because they can't directly decide on this, perhaps one and a rather favourable moment, and how? Because of the personal struggle to preserve the naked existence, to provide for tomorrow, they're slowly forgetting what's of general interest, and it might be easier for you to adopt this. But one day for such dangerous laws, someone will have to answer. Sometimes the court of the public can punish harder than this, from our reformed judiciary. I think this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, because it brings nothing good to the citizens of Serbia, perhaps certain tycoons that have planned, who have agreed with someone, perhaps outside the Republic of Serbia, because once again, to remember, the opening of jobs, if it is an ino partner, this country has singled out up to 10,000 euros, which was not valid for our people, for our entrepreneurs. I think you've prepared something similar here, but don't count on the SRS. The SRS is against this law and I think that this is the best way to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60560	The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, and after that, the MP, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60561	Dear President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Law on Public Property, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group – JS Mr. Zoran Kasalovic put forward the parliamentary group's position and further, I would just like to confirm that position and make a few more sentences in the principle debate on the proposal for this law. When the debate is in particular, then we will remain more concrete in some of the solutions proposed in this law. So I repeat what the representative of our group has already said, the SRS parliamentary group – the JS will support the proposal for a law on public property. We believe this is a significant law, a significant system law, which allows for further decentralisation in Serbia, which creates frameworks for this, therefore, as part of the work that is ahead for us in decentralisation, because it is not only that, decentralisation in Serbia. So, a law that precisely defines what it is and whose property it has so far been the property of the Republic of Serbia, a law that allows AP, local self-government, faster investment development, etc., on the one hand. On the other hand, I simply want to warn that we have in mind that by transferring property to the AP Vojvodina and to units of local self-government, it doesn't just mean that it will become richer, it will have immense wealth, meaning it will also have a lot of obligations to preserve that property, maintain, create a new one, etc. The third reason is that, with the creation of a decentralisation framework, it does not question the functioning of the Serbian state, of course based on the 2006 Serbian Constitution, it has a basis in this, and, of course, according to European legislation, which is important to us, given that we are seeking the EU, for all these reasons, we believe that this is a significant law and that we should support it. What I want to point out is this, I want to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's approach when it comes to this law. This law should replace the previous one that went into one extreme. There was a danger that this law would go to another extreme, and I want to support it, to support the government, which was not from one law that had a hypercentral role, hypercentralized, went to another extreme, but I found one balanced approach, one measure. Of course, the Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 1995, which this law should replace, is a law that was passed 16 years ago, and could not answer today's questions, to the necessity of decentralisation, when it comes to property, but it should also be said that it was the law that was passed, the law that first used the term social, instead of social property without titleholders, introduced an expression of state property and it is significant from that point of view. Also, I think we should keep in mind the times and the circumstances, the environment, the period of separation of the state when it was brought in. Obviously, the duty of decentralisation when it comes to property, imposes legislation and for the reason that in 2006, the Constitution established precise new forms of property, besides private property, has established a form of public property, and within it, a state, belonging to the state of Serbia, a province belonging to the province and municipal, i.e. city property belonging to the units of local self-government. So, when all this is in mind, one solution that we think is the right measure at this point, which does not question the functioning of either those to whom the property is transferred, or on the other hand, of the state of Serbia. I'm going to stick around for two more questions, property subject. The law defines what the subject of public property is and precisely says – natural wealth, good of general interest, which has been declared public property by law, and of course things, mobile and immovable, others etc. I repeated this for a simple reason, to continue to follow the events in the next, that depending on what is the subject of public property, the law further worked out to whom it belongs, who are the bearers of what property. Given that it has gone from importance, of all things, we support this approach that is listed here, which means that natural wealth, not to list them, remains the property of the Serbian state, that, from the good of the general interest, the transfer of certain things begins, that I do not speak further about things, given that they are not all good of the general interest of equal importance. This is exactly what the government used to manage when it shared property, or property rights. I also want to strongly support another position that is stated in the law, when it comes to natural wealth, good, some of the general interest, not to mention, there it is precisely stated, are state property and cannot be alienated. We consider this a serious, responsible behavior of this government and this state and towards generations to come. So, in general, at the time, conditionally speaking, the separation of public property was taken into account what is the object of property and what is the meaning of each of these properties. The second question I want to stay on for a while is the question that the law regulates, and these are the holders of public property rights. Public property rights holders are, according to this law, as the Constitution also says, the Republic, the province and units of local self-government, or municipalities and cities. I did this again on purpose because of the next question I think we're going to open up and I think that, Mr. Vice President, we should take the opportunity until the end of this debate to clarify the issues of the rightful property bearer. It is indisputable when it comes to both states and provinces, municipalities and cities, what is causing great debates and controversy? It's city halls, local communities, so what's not in the local self-government unit category. It is a matter that will see to it that this debate is fully discussed. I will take on the case of Belgrade, which has 17 city municipalities, including nearly half a million municipalities, huge business, business, cultural centres, not just the population, etc. City municipalities do not have the status of units of local self-government, but they also have how they need to have more competence than they have and how they have and how they need to have the proper property they need for the work of those bodies and organisations. Please let's just take another look at the next one. Is this right for city halls to be given by law or, as already stated in the law, leaves the possibility for cities to transfer the right under their statutes? When we consider that the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government views the city and the City of Belgrade as a unit of local self-government, it does not see the possibility of the law being able to do so, but at the same time if the city is competent to establish a city municipality, that there is an appropriate jurisdiction, even the way in which the authorities are elected, whether it has one or 21 municipalities, etc., then they should have jurisdiction and that right to dispose of property, but instead of whether there is a possibility of using one expression, and through the city there is already a city municipality, so, if it founded them, they have an obligation to transfer property to them for the work of the bodies and organisations that belong to them. When it comes to the local community, I think it is given here and it is necessary to maintain that right to use, but it seems to me that, Mr. Vice President, one more time to see if there is a possibility that this right of use is permanent, that it cannot be alienated. Why do I say that? Because the right to property implies that it can also be alienated, and the right to use, when it comes to local communities, it must be taken into account, there are many objects that have been built by citizens with their own resources and which should be in the function of those citizens. So they must have the right to use that property because why not property rights? Well, property rights don't just mean that you've got something, but it means a whole bunch of other jobs, to save that property, to keep it, to increase it, etc., which there are no conditions when it comes to local communities. So I use one term "permanent use" without the possibility of such cases being taken away. I want to make something clear. I support this amendment of the Government, which is given to the following - facilities in the territory of the former Yugoslav republics that were in social property on which the AP Vojvodina or the unit of local self-government or institution established by the AP Vojvodina or the local self-government unit was registered as the holder of the right. I ask, does it apply to all units of local self-government and refers to the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the institutions whose founders they are? Those aren't small funds. It's not a small property. I will list only one small facility, a children's resort centre that people have recognized for years, for 45 years it has been dealing with children, which has six huge extraordinary facilities in Croatia. It's not a small property, it's a big property. I think it's good to belong to whoever invested the money in it. Vice-President, I hope, and you will deny, if that is not the case, that the issue of the immobility of public enterprises and institutions, regardless of who is the founder, remains between the former Yugoslav republics and that this will be the result of interstate agreements and agreements. So, they won't negotiate, but let's people say, every lice in the village. With several open issues in mind when it comes to urban municipalities, local communities and institutions that I think should be fully clarified by the end of this debate, I repeat again, we will support the proposal for a public property law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60562	The word has a folk MP Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, followed by Mr. Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that there was nothing impossible in Serbia under the laws that are current and that you will put out of force by adopting this law and that the reasons for this is solely incompetence of the government, ineffectiveness of the institutions you have established in the last 10 years. The only thing you couldn't, and you're going to give yourself the right to this law, is to inn and sell public or state property. If that's motive, then one of you needs to get the courage to come out and say it. If not, tell us. Mr. Djelic, we've heard everything here. I will try to make comments about those who will vote in favour of this law or those who are still in the process of trade voting for this law. You have to admit that voting and government law trafficking has not been a very rare thing in the last few weeks and months. What I would truly like, I would like my colleagues from the SVM to remain principled this time, so that this law will pass as well as the Law on Railways. That would be the only thing that would benefit Serbia right now. There is no rational argument to which you will be forced by blackmail and various political pressures and by international and domestic means to accept and push you into the assembly procedure. Mr. Djelic, I will make sure I speak very little of Vojvodina. A can today when you open, either Bojan Pajtic comes out to you, or Bojan Kostreš. You know? In Serbia, there is talk of property reduced to problems in Vojvodina. Only they have problems in Serbia. I'm not saying this from the aspect of impatience Mr. Djuric mentioned earlier. No, I really don't have a single sense of impatience for anyone. But you'll allow it, and some others have problems and some others have to say something. It all came down to the story of the ambition of two or three men in Vojvodina. Maybe they're not people's fault. They may be spokesmen of the Prime Minister, whom his party must not shut their mouths, let alone those who openly advocate some very dangerous political tendencies in Serbia. You, Mr. Djelic, just now said that Vojvodina, or autonomy, is a reality and that it is the fruit of history. I agree with you. But the autonomy that is the fruit of history is, Mr. Djelic, elected for Serbs in Austria, for Serbs to join their mother. The laws you're after are the opposite of that autonomy, the historical heritage of that autonomy. It is degutant that you bring this autonomy into contact with this autonomy that you are promoting through this law. But let's see what some people have said to vote for this law. They say from the U.S. - at last, when this law is passed, they will know what it is. It's a lie, Mr. Djelic. In one country you know what's whose, you know when? When you have an orderly cadastre and you write down the property. They haven't been able for 10 years and you together, as minister with them, to write down property in Serbia. Let me ask you, how did you announce the law of the cataster, of the state-owned cataster and of the measure? Tell us now, as Deputy Prime Minister, how far did you get with this job? You don't know where your walls are, you don't know what's yours. You will convince us when you adopt this law and begin to insinuate state property, which is now public property, built as it is, it will be a sign that you know who has who and who has what. In 2004, the SRS won Surdulica. By 2005, Mr. Minister, the municipal administration building where the president of the municipality sat for 60 or 100 years, was not registered until then, was not listed. You're here to say that when this law is passed, you'll know what it is. Not to mention some other municipalities, which did not recognise the importance of having clean cadastrian data, plan and strategic documentation. There is an MP here who says, "We feel the fear of some MPs." We're afraid, because we know what you're like, we've met you in the last 10 years, from the privatisation process to the legalization process, etc. Are these positive or good experiences with you? Of course not. Do you know what this law will put in your hands? Our fear is justified and you cannot challenge it. It confirmed a ten-year experience with you. A few years ago, you say - local self-government is waiting for a few years to respond to the Property Directorate. That's what those who ran this country for 10 years, managed the government, who made decisions on who would be in those property directives, or in those bodies. We also had problems as local self-government in 2004 and 2005, it's true. It's true that we didn't know how many times we intervened and called the Property Directorate to give the paper. This problem is not solved by giving property to local self-government or some local cabadia, but by setting up relations in the Property Directorate. That's the way. That's how we see this. It is much simpler and easier, but you are victims of your own political ambitions both in Serbia and in Brussels. You say, the law that applies is brought by Milosevic. He didn't want to develop municipalities where you were in power. Boris Tadic is much more careful. He, Mr. Djelic, invests a lot, or his ministers have seen very much the municipalities where they are not in power. You can't boast of that either. Remember your Pirot experience. You've bypassed the Pirot municipal administration because your DS isn't in power there. Now you will find Milosevic. Milosevic is a small child for you. What he left you after the war and sanctions you couldn't keep, or you didn't want to. This will try to finish him off. I sincerely hope it lasts for a while, only to the next election that's obviously near here. Imagine what the reason for the law is here? Nickle tree in a canal in Vojvodina. Who's to blame for that? The titler of property that broke the tree in Vojvodina, in the canal? Do you know why the tree came down? Because the company entrusted with the channel has a non-employee and a leper, which is easier to receive from the budget, whether Vojvodina or Serbia, is easier for him to receive 300,000, not to do anything, to take 100,000 to the party headquarters that put him in that place and enjoy it. It's hard to sit in a car once that the state pays him again, and in a month you pass and see a channel that's been entrusted to you for aging. You're changing titles of property. You're selling fog here to both us and the people. How much longer? What are we, retards? How much more do you sell us fog, that bristle fog? It's been a while. You're incapable of running the country. You need to leave the government. It doesn't have to change the property and its titler, it has to change the power or those to which the government is entrusted, because you've shown how much you're worth and what you know. It is said here – the problem is that natural resources are state property. Come on, let's give it up. Why didn't you introduce an amendment to sell that too? How can that be a problem? State property is natural wealth, so local self-government is denied for money. That's not true. When natural resources, incomes and environments are located, it is settled by fees, it is dealt with by regulations. One single regulation. What did you write in the law? Whose fee is it? The fees are the revenues of Serbia's budget, Vojvodina's budget and local self-government units. Whose fee will there be? Can one of you say you'll handle it with regulations? What do you think, based on the experience we've all had with this government and the governments since 2000, here, perhaps even earlier, that this will be the incomes of local self-government units? Have you ever brought such a regulation? Did Surdulica ever have a dinar of a liter of water used and exploited both the hair plants and the Coke? They never had a single dollar. Do you know why? Because in those regulations, the last article says that these are the revenues of the local self-government budget. It was nice of you to spend that money. What are you trying to convince us of now? That it would be the income units of local self-government or the AP Vojvodina? Yeah, right. Knowing your habits, manners and determinations, we believe that local self-government will flourish after this, especially the duchess. In the Banatian municipalities, everyone is overjoyed, and they look forward to this law. You know? They know that the problems they have are going to have, and on an economic and social level, they're going to have them in the Shop and down in Bosilegrad with me. They can't wait for you to pass this law. When these municipalities get their property, that's where the honey and milk flow. They know that. They benefited greatly from the province administration, so now both mother will benefit and fayde, as my people would say down below, and from the law on public property. Yeah, right. The Law on Public Property needs gentlemen in Novi Sad to take a series, as those from Belgrade are taking up property across Serbia, inn and ink. You're not gonna do any good. You will bring happiness to the middle in which you joke with several hectares sold for 10,000 euros, by giving the municipality property. Who do you guys fake anymore? You need to be told in person. You don't deserve a higher level of debate, because you're trying to make us both jerks and fools. Who wrote the law? What kind of task force is that, Mr. Djelic? Tell me, who's in charge of the task force? What is the political weight of people who did this? I'm not contesting anyone's personal credibility. Bojan Kostresh? Twice they met and couldn't, the man on the phone was finishing the job. And when the state wants to pass a law like this, I guess the most relevant are called in, and that's what we're talking about? It doesn't matter if he will or won't. What kitchen is this cooked in? Where is this cooked? What are we? What do you assure us of? In your state-of-the-art power, your commitment, your responsibility? Please don't. You've said very interesting things, Mr. Djelic. Watch what you said - hypercentralization. Now you will replace it with an anarchoedicization. Why hasn't that hypercentralization interfered with you for 10 years? Who's the creator of this hypercentralization? You, Mr. Djelic, you and those who have sat there all these years and supported everything you do and who have assured us that everything you do so far is best, in the interests of Serbia and your European path. I would really be ashamed to show up as a minister who I've been in the government for 10 years and say - hypercentralization. Have you passed or defended a law in this House that was not good and European, which did not improve the standards of this European society? A European society where the consumer basket is three times bigger, if I can express myself so pessimistically, than the average salary. Next you say, Mr. Minister – now the municipalities will get local roads, squares, property and everything will be great. What do you think? Why haven't these paths been made so far? Why are untegorized roads in the municipalities not covered and made? Because there was no money, Mr. Djelic. They won't be given money by a change in the title of property. The state doesn't have any money. Your paths will still be as they are. In this context, the municipalities will receive only one new torment. For whom, Minister, to make the right roads? For whom country and untegrated ways to make themselves? For abandoned villages? For the spaces that stayed after your depopulation policy, what are they like? In accordance with European standards - and what have you done? What have you done with the funds from the Republika Srpska budget that have been defined for local self-government? They were able to make these roads with those means. You owe the municipalities 40 billion, on a variety of grounds. Now you're going to rebalance the funds that need to go to local self-government, and two months ago you passed a law that you promised them 40 billion. You're playing. You're playing with common sense. You're making fun of all of us. Do you hear what they earn? That is what it is. Just let them win and laugh. Some of them laughed and threw away, and you know how it went in 2000. You say, Mr. Minister, "separation of locals from the republican administration." When she won the SRS in 2005, we did it in the Surdulica municipality. It is the original position of the SRS in its political programme, that the Republic and local authorities, inspection, should not and should not share the same rooms. That's what we did. We didn't need a law on public property. She needed a good political will and a conversation with people. They showed hearing even those who represented the government, for a wonderful miracle. But that's what we managed to do. Not without pain, but we managed to do it. Your mouth is full of Europe. And here you are calling for Europe. I will mention the document you called on - the EU Charter, because it is not an EU document but a Council of Europe. Tell me, please, this is where you say that you are required by him to provide funds to perform the functions of local self-government. Article 9 of this Charter regulates it. Where does that article say who has to and should be the owner of property? And where is the guarantee that local funds are provided for changing the title of property? Nowhere. But you don't choose the means to defend your political moves and justify it. Mr. Minister, you're going to basically open up another Pandora's box. I will try to cut short and ask you – did any of you assess how what this law carries with it, what kind of repercussion may have in the territories of the Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities under such political circumstances? What repercussion of the fact that local self-government will become the title holder of property can have in Bosilegrad, where the poor political tendencies of the leadership there are openly manifested? Territorial aspirations on the outside. Has anyone thought about it? Do you know what everything in these environments can get through public and private partnerships? Who can get into capital, our capital? Dangerous political projects and bearers of dangerous political projects, financing dangerous political projects. I don't have to talk about Vojvodina, because everyone knows the inclinations, ambitions and aspirations, both from the outside and from the inside. But there is not only the Duke as a problem. I asked very openly, what about Bosilegrad, Presevo and Bujanovac? What are you going to give to the municipalities? The possibility of being in charge, of removing local self-government from your neck by broadcasting ammunition bonds. And you're here, Mr. Minister, to connect nicely and usefully -- to serve Brussels, and if you can as someone who's tied to bankers, to take advantage of it, because you know very well how popular the municipal bonds are, because they're cheaper than the loan, because they're safe and, of course, because interest is interesting for those who buy them. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time, Mr. Minister. What you've tried and tried to do is a very bad adventure. The SRS believes that all the legislation you had at your disposal was absolutely enough to make the public sector efficient, to make local self-government orderly and to raise the level of state administration to a satisfactory level. You don't care about all that. What is a political message and intent and ambition is the absolute destruction of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS doesn't want that kind of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60564	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, most of us here are aware that Serbia is a deeply centralised country. The fact that as such it is one of the most underdeveloped in Europe and that it has slowed down economic growth, and also on the other hand the fact that 10 of Europe's most developed countries are highly decentralised countries should encourage us to enter the decentralisation process. For these reasons, I believe that the adoption of one of these laws is exactly one courageous step towards real and fundamental decentralisation of the country. As the most important effect of this law, one of the most important effects of this law is seen in the fact that its adoption of our municipalities and cities cease to be tenants of property that is their property or holders of residential rights, they already become owners, which is a far more pleasant and better position for them. Everyone who's had a chance to be tenants knows it's an uncomfortable position, you know how necessary it is to get permission from the boss, or the landlady, to replace the taps, possibly turn the house around without talking about some more serious procedures. These same problems we've had the opportunity to hear and listen to all these months ago, how much local self-government has been struggling to obtain the most common consent and banal paper to manage the property they use in a more efficient way. By adopting this law, we get in our legal system a legal institute of public property, which replaces practically current state property, but the difference is that the holders of this right, unlike the Republic, can now be an autonomous province, cities and municipalities. The law is quite clear in the legal language written, certainly that its practical application will also show possible weaknesses, it clearly defines and what is the subject of the law and who are the holders of the law and what is the procedure for the availability, management, alienation and exchange of public property, so that, as far as these formal elements of the law are concerned, we do not really have any fundamental remarks, a large number of amendments that the law will certainly have, I hope, will improve the text of this law, and what is disputed for our parliamentary group, perhaps most controversial, is a provision of law that gives discretion to cities to give public municipalities public property status over certain movable and immovable matters. We think that this solution discriminates against the city's municipalities, unlike those that are not within the city and that we want to submit an amendment that will fix this text. Here is the case of the town where I come from, the town municipality of Kostolac, if I could get some real estate, for example, bought a bus, or built a kindergarten by automatism, that movement or a moving thing would belong to the town of Požarevc. I don't think the citizens of Kostolc would agree with that, and neither would the Firefighters. At first, I pointed out that the adoption of this law is actually the beginning of the real decentralisation of Serbia and we in the united regions of Serbia, especially looking forward to it, given that this spring we have launched a great initiative, the signing of a petition signed by half a million Serbian citizens, who have thus declared themselves to the essential decentralisation of the country, one law from and to say our agenda has already been passed, the Law on the financing of local self-government, which has enabled better funding, secondly, the Law on Public Property, we are at the threshold to adopt and I must say this opportunity that the third law we have proposed under the national petitions, that is the Law on the direct selection of mayors and president of the municipality is also important. It is indeed important who manages the municipalities and cities, who will possess this property. I agree with colleagues who have discussed and asked the question – will this law bring something to the citizens of Serbia, something concrete, tangible, so that they will support it in some way. This will certainly depend on those who will manage public property, either at the level of the municipality, or at the level of the city, the autonomous province and the Republic. In particular, given the fact that we do not have good experience in caring for public goods, that sometimes we treat them arrogantly and irresponsiblely, and that is why this third law is also important – the Law on the Direct Selection of the President of the Municipality and the Mayor, which would enable better and more efficient management. So the problem of this law I really see in its application, it gives great opportunities, reduces administration, it will be a good tool in the hands of those who are well-intentioned and who know how to effectively use funds, and on the other hand, I'm afraid that where trust is given to some who don't deserve it, there may be problems. In the end, I'm just going to conclude with the words of Napoleon the third, who long ago said, as far as decentralisation is concerned, that it's possible to rule people remotely, but it's not possible to manage. This, when it comes to public property, can be more and more strongly concluded on the case of both this law and the need, in fact, essential to making decisions that are made, and are related to the property and to the availability of property, as close as possible to the place where it is actually located to the people who manage it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60566	Thank you. Mr Boris Aleksic has the word, followed by Mr Nenad Canak. Here you go, Alex.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60567	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Napoleon also said several more interesting sentences, among other things, that it is a matter of date, and we are now seeing through these bill proposals, and through what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, that treason is largely on stage in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Djelic, you allowed yourself a historical review and you very negatively expressed yourself on the history of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, you spoke of the unification of Germany, you thought of 1871, what Bismark did, and you talked about the unification of Italy, which was primarily initiated by Garibaldi. You said that unlike Germany and Italy, Serbia was fighting for independence, not for unification. On the contrary, Mr Djelic, historians and celebrities from the West and all that is mentioned by the Serbian revolution, as a struggle for the unification of the Serbian state and the Serbian people, and more than that for the elimination of feudalism. The feud that you return with this law, you create small feuds, small feudals, and now instead of Djilas, instead of Dinkic, instead of Pajtic, we will have another 100, 200, 300 such people and indeed Serbia will look like the German states before Bismark's unification, which were 300 and more. So, one scary fact. Otherwise, the states you mentioned were nationalist states, a couple of excellencies. It is France and Cardinal Rišelje has introduced the principle of state reason in international relations. What was Germany in the 20th century, it was France before, it threatened to become Hegemeon throughout Europe so that calling on Germany and France is not a very good example for you, because these are countries that protect national interests everywhere, especially in your territory, and you are here destroying Serbian national interests, although your path is logical, you broke up economic Russia at the time of Chubajs, in the time of Jeljeljin, and now you come and do it to Serbia and Serbs. Let's see specifically about the Public Property Act, what you've been doing. You have formed a task force for the creation of the Public Property Act, led by Bojan Kostreš, a man who is not a lawyer and does not simply know the law. That task force met once. After that, Mr. Kostres began to meet directly with Cvetkovic, prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Co-workers of Bojan Pajtic from the Democratic Party, you know who he is, said the next thing for Mr Kostreša, I quote – Kostreš, a person of unknown calling and a modest quantity of knowledge, which does not distinguish the basic category of legal matter. It's a finished quote. About the Public Property Act. You're referring to a historical background, you're returning to the communist fluids here, Mr. Djelic, because that calling for autonomy when you say it has its historic foothold, you don't mean the Duke of Serbia and the Tami banks, if you even know what it was. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina requested the official return of some of the 1974 solutions, the 1974 Constitution, Tito's Constitution that broke Serbia into three parts. Because, as they say, they need property that brings money, not the one they need to invest in. Imagine, too, the president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Shandor Egereshi, known for that story about white gloves, seeking a solution from the 1974 Tito Constitution. You're telling us about democracy, about human rights, and here people who maintain your authority are looking for solutions from the worst communism, when Serbia was destroyed, when the Serbian people were destroyed, when the destruction of the state was prepared. Because we've had since the first constitution since the Second World War, which predicted a centralised state, an ever greater and greater decentralisation that eventually led to a war fire, separatism, Slovenian, Croatian, Muslim, etc. Now you continue this process and end, you appear as the executioners of Titus's will. It is interesting that later negotiations on the Public Property Act began to lead directly Mirko Cvetkovic and Bojan Pajtic. You now have something that is happening in the south, now you've started working in the north, you've got negotiations between Belgrade and Novi Sad. So, just amazing, just amazing. So, what you are predicting by this law is the partial balance of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, which gives you increasing and wider powers, which paves the way for separation from the Republic of Serbia, towards obtaining the status of the first federal unit or who knows what because that's what your bosses from the West tell you, and you share the property with this law. You introduce the concept of public property, and you have no idea what public property is, you don't define it at all, you do certain lists, you predict that now the public property is state property, then the property of AP and local self-government. But you don't get into it at all, where the government of the AP and what the AP is, what local self-government is. After all, it is all the property of the Republic of Serbia, and you can share it as much as you want. This is how you damage the interests of the Republic of Serbia. You additionally organize, develop, kletocracy that is on stage in Serbia. Now this kleptocrat will have three levels. It will have a republican level, will have an AP level, you only predict Vojvodina, Kosovo does not mention at all, Kosovo and Metohija will have a level of local self-government. Now the citizens of Serbia will have three levels from which they will be robbed by different officials because each of these officials will want to build their own towers and cities first, and then if they do something for the state, if they do something for their environment where it comes from, that's a big question. In this law what is particularly dangerous, and my colleague Sreto Peric spoke about it, you use the term for the AP entity. I don't know if you know what the entity means, but here I'm going to tell you what it means in the dictionary of American diplomacy, it means only a certain state-of-the-art body and the character of the state-of-the-art of the entity, national identity, national, cultural, historical, linguistic and religious specificity and the right to self-determination. You see, as you put yourself in trouble, you put yourself in a mud you can't get out of. At the same time, such characters in Serbia, such as Sonja Biserko, say there are already paramilitary formations from Serbia in Kosovo. Be careful, Sonja Biserko, whose brother died in the Croatian paramilitary formations of Zenga, says things like this. Natasa Kandic, who was led by the US Intelligence Service in the documentation of the Republic of Serbia, arranges for the prosecution, judicial authorities and determines what Boris Tadic will do, what the government of the Republic of Serbia will do, and you tolerate it all. Let's see further, interestingly in this proposal of the Law on Public Property, you're also talking about natural wealth and you say, water, their sources, etc. mineral resources are owned by the Republic of Serbia. You say it's on natural wealth, that you can acquire concessions, rights of use, exploitation. Very interesting, that you are thus slowly introducing the sale of the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia. I want to remind you, Mr. Djelic, since you and this government are only talking about profit, only material goods, remember that for Kosovo and Metohija AP reserves of lignite, lignite coal are so large that they cannot be exploited for the next 11 centuries. Their value is estimated at billions and billions and billions of euros, currently, and Serbia is slowly running out of energy. I would also like to remind you, the Woodshol Oceanographic Department of the Institute has issued one warning saying that as a result of the global warming of Serbia's territory and some other countries will become the only places in Europe with sufficient quantities of fresh drinking water. This means that the natural sources of water that you want to give concessions to large multinational companies will be real sources of wealth for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you want to earn it. Interestingly, in the next member of this law, a member of the 10th good of general interest in public property, you have some details that are unconstitutional. It says – good of general interest in public property, in the sense of this law are good in general use and other things that are defined by law as good of general interest and then state: agricultural land, forests, forest land, water, water land, water facilities, etc. You're predicting here, based on what you wrote in the law that it's a public property and that it's different from state property, and these goods can be owned by AP and local self-government. However, in Article 87. The constitution of state property, natural wealth and goods, which are legally determined to be of general interest, property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in state property. What do you mean by that? So, you're violating this law of the constitution of the RS, you have no problem with what you're doing. After all, the reason for this constitution is as your coalition partners said to return the Titoist solutions from the 1974 Constitution. You gentlemen are the new communists, the new titoists. You just replaced the red pentagram with the yellow pentagram. You allow Canak and his merry company to blackmail you. As possible, how will you defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia in international relations, how will you defend Kosovo and Metohija, how will you defend any interests of the Republic of Serbia if you allow a handful of politicians who have no foothold in the people to blackmail you? We have already said in the context of the Serbian revolution, you are returning the feuds of the Turkish era, you are creating new feudals, and all under the pretext that you are approaching the EU, that you are approaching Brussels to get close to yours, you are not turning back time. You are returning the time of the Turks here, Turkish time, and that is what Micunovic has announced here along with Mr Sutanovac, Turkey's great engagement. You, in fact, instead of approaching the EU, are creating some kind of Turkish union here. So what you're doing is absolutely against the interest of the Republic of Serbia, it's absolutely against sound logic, there's no excuse for doing this kind of thing. You simply share what the Republic of Serbia has, with parties, individuals, officials, who maintain your authority to buy their support. We will come at some point to the fact that we will have nothing to share, that we will have nothing to give, when Serbia will be completely eaten. What I told you will be divided as Germany once was divided, but also after that, the unifier and Vojislav Seselj will certainly return from The Hague tribunal and defend Serbia's national interests and unite Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60568	Ten minutes and 58 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60569	Before I say a few words about this law that lies ahead, I should draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was gathered after the previous elections, has gathered around several goals. They were very clear and very defined, ending co-operation with The Hague tribunal, opening the country's borders by obtaining white Schengen, adopting the laws of the European agenda, and bringing the EU closer and social responsibility. Most of these things have been done. What has not been done and what has not been agreed on, these are just the laws. I really think that it is extremely important, to understand, that our support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I speak on behalf of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, was based on an agreed, not on the fact that trust in the Government is blanco, especially when it comes to such serious matters and serious issues, for a simple reason, which is quite clear that there is no law here on property, especially not on the property of local self-government, because I have not noticed that this part of this law has been disputed, but just and only, to say so, part of the law relating to the property of the AP Vojvodina. In that sense, we will still have to carry out consultations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it has to correct its own thoughts on this subject, because this is something that LSV cannot agree to. In order to make a contribution to this thinking, I have to make a little bit of history, i.e. reminding myself of why this AP Vojvodina property is so important in the pawns, not just LSV, but many other parts of the parties that operate in the territory of Vojvodina. Minister Djelic said very correctly that historical conditions define certain things in today's policy and that is indeed indisputable. In contrast to some other countries, Serbia as a complex state, for the simple reason that its parts have different traditions on its territory of diversity, which, in our opinion, should be solved by autonomy, not by violently unifying legal solutions, because it is not necessary to forget the very important thing, that the capital of Vojvodina, Novi Sad, this year has celebrated the 100-year-old most beautiful and largest bathing resort on the Danube, 100 years of public traffic, and the city of Nis the third largest city or second, we will see on the list, next year will celebrate 100 years since the departure of the Turks. It is very important to have the awareness that these differences that exist are nothing to be proud of or ashamed of, but I must underline that, an example from the town of Novi Sad, that 85 years ago in the town of Novi Sad, with the business space of the town of Novi Sad, the company "Photo Glisic" signed a contract on the lease of business space. He signed Radovan Glisic, and extended his descendant Nenad Glisic, and extended Filip Glisic further, in Zmaj Jovina Street in Novi Sad, and the lease lasted 80 years later. So, for 80 years, there was a firm called Photo Glisic on Dragon Jovina Street in Novi Sad because the town of Novi Sad had its own property and had its own responsible authority. Now suddenly something doesn't trust the Duke that he'll be able to dispose of some property that, my God, is being given. Let's see who in history couldn't have the property? He could not have a slave in ancient Greece or ancient Rome, could not have Jews and a lower race and could not have Vojvodina in Milosevic's Serbia. I'll read a few things for your reminder. Since Vojvodina joined the group, the Kingdoms of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, and then Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it was treated as an occupied area, won by war, and was responsible for making 37% of the country's budget, although it had 11.5% of the population. What she brought to the dowry, let me read it to you. The total farmland owned by Vojvodina prior to the merger amounted to 2,757,273 hectares, accounting for 11% of the state. As measured by productivity, that percentage had a significance of close to 20%. Also, Vojvodina, I would ask you to listen carefully, had 4,700 kilometers of road network and 2,200km of rail tracks, 105,328 passenger and freight wagons, 902 kilometers of waterways, rivers and canals, 12 chocolate factories, 27 liquor factories, five canned factories, eight breweries, 11 dairy shops, 90 workshops and factories, seven iron and steel mills, 30 skin processing plants, 44 chemical industries, and as far as mills are concerned, the number was moving about three thousand. At the end of the 19th century, Vojvodina was one of the most important mill regions in the world, and after Pest and Minneapolis, the dairy industry in Bačka was the most productive. In these mills there was a large European capital, just like in the railways, which, to create at that time, was one of the most dissociative railway infrastructures in Europe and was invested in about 150 million Swiss francs at that time. In the last 80 years, no railways have been built on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, only 1,000km of rails are used, many tracks are covered with weeds, and trains drive 30km per hour, in other words, Franz Josef was driving 10km per hour faster than Milutin Mrkonjic. I must remind you that the state property, defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 87, states that the property of the AP unit of local self-government and the way it is used and available, is governed by the law and that this law, which we are now talking about, says also in Article 183 of the AP in accordance with the law, regulate matters of the territorial importance of the area 1) of spatial planning and development, 2) agriculture, water industry, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, hospitality, spas and resorts, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river, river and railway traffic and road planning, the privatisation of fairs and other business events. My question is, how is the AP going to arrange road, river and rail traffic, if there are no roads, rivers and railways. How is he going to do this, how is it going to be done, if we can't get what rails were on the territory of Vojvodina a hundred years ago, because we should build another 1,000 kilometers to just return what was before Vojvodina entered the common state of southern Slovenia. I have one simple question, does anyone think anything can be done seriously if Vojvodina doesn't get autonomy? We are the only constitutional authority from the same member 183 that says – the AP determines the symbols and way of using them, we try to exploit, by creating the duchy flag and the duchess coat of arms. The use is prescribed as the Constitution requires, by the decision of the circuit assembly, half of the municipalities in Vojvodina's territory will not act according to the decisions of the Vojvodina Assembly. Who's gonna do it? The police won't do it. Whether the courts will judge it, not the courts, because they have never done so before. My question is, what's all this about, if they won't have anyone to implement the decisions we're talking about here right now. We have a situation in which some parts, for a state reason, do not return, for my God, this state reason is so important that it is not necessary to return the property that the great-grandfathers of the duchess left for them to manage and live from. I am very surprised that there are these state interests relating to Vojvodina and Vojvodina, and there are no state interests relating to an NGO called the SPC, so the SPC returns almost half of the Fruska Gora national park in nature, returns specifically, the forest in the national park, and Vojvodina cannot get its own natural infrastructure and on the other hand that story, that there will be no idea how it will lead to the destruction of the country or anything like that. I must draw your attention, unfortunately, we have enough problems with the fact that what has been done at the Duke's administration is at all preserved for the simple reason that suddenly it turns out, as the last events have shown us, that one meeting of the two Prime Ministers, the Government of Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is enough, and that meeting for which no one knows when it happened, or even if it has happened, that a session of the Vojvodina Parliament is cancelled. I have one small question - if the supreme representative body of 2,150,000 people will serve to prepare it, then it ends with a meeting that we are not sure happened, then we are asking whether Vojvodina needs such a congregation. The congregation - yes, but not like that. Administration – absolutely, but not like that. Why does Vojvodina have to have property? Because it's the only way to solve problems in her area. I'm not going back to these 80 years without a single railroad built, I'm not going to talk about the New Sad Clinical Center that just the last few years has started to get buildings that aren't from Austria, I'm not going to talk about that New Sad TV, destroyed in NATO bombing, never getting its property back, I'm not going to talk about the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts being barbarically kicked out of their rooms, shut down and turned into an anonymous department of SANU, I'm not going to talk about all this because they're general places. The main question now is whether Vojvodina should or should not exist. I know these "drunks" from the Russian service party think it would be the simplest thing if the Vojvodinas were gone, and then we won't have that asymmetry, we won't have a problem with the fact that there's a duchy administration in Vojvodina, and there's no outside of Vojvodina, but I'm asking another question -- how did that happen? Well, it came to this by having a federal unit of former SFRY entered, Milosevic's anti-constitutional coup, into the position of an anonymous piece that entered into the light of Serbia, which entered into all this with its territory and its money, and that was the only thing that mattered, with its resources that no one is more serious about today than those who would steal them. On the other hand, when we talk about the fact that it wasn't enough to protect the duchy interests, look at the past 10 years. Personally, I was head of a constitutional subcommittee for the creation of the Serbian Constitution, where after the Venice Commission's approval to continue working with the constitution, the government's crisis was urgently made and was shot down 30 days before the prionization of the constitution was to be approached. Why? So that Serbia wouldn't happen to get some civilized constitution. When the adoption of this Constitution in 2006, which was made so where every little one of them had built a small wish, they were radical, the only thing worse in this country of SNS, because they are who they are, and these are still their traitors, boasting that the greatest success in that constitution was that Vojvodina had succeeded in getting nothing. What they're doing, we understand that, but we had a situation where representatives of the Vojvodina administration said they wouldn't agree to anything that wasn't legislative, executive, partial judicial authority, etc., that during the night it would all change and in the morning there was nothing but a virtual 7% of which the three should continue to be under Belgrade's supervision and four to be transfer funds. When the statute was passed again there were 1,000 problems of this type, so Panchevo forgot to be in Vojvodina, so when it was the Law of Jurisdiction, there was a sale of NIS which was nothing more than the Vojvodina Naftagas, renamed for the needs of Milosevic's robbery and kidnapping. That same Naftagas when it was sold no one allowed the province's parliament to discuss it at all. The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has asked 20 times to discuss it, and this year, a year ago, it was extracted from the Vojvodina country of oil worth as much as was paid to the whole of Naftagas, the whole of NIS. This was done under pressure from Russian services, whose main parties are sitting in this congregation. I will never understand how it is possible for this country to close its eyes to the fact that decentralisation by the Constitution in 1974 led to war. The war began when Milosevic stopped that decentralisation by force, when it was run over by Vojvodina's tanks of autonomy and Kosovo's autonomy. Then she stopped functioning the good country we lived in until then. Having a selfless love for other people's money, gentlemen of the Russian Service Party, the need for a Russian ambassador to teach you patriotism because you haven't destroyed this country enough, we'll talk about it some other time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60570	It's been used 17 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Boris Aleksic has been reported. (Boris Aleksic, from the site: Replica. You have nothing to gain from a replica. I'm asking you to throw away on who's recognized in the Russian service party, not to serve as a basis for replication. (Boris Aleksic, from the post: Man defends the 1974 Constitution. ) National MP, the 1974 Constitution cannot be a basis for replication at all. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60571	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get back to this law of public property. We cannot talk about the law today unless we mention that 1995 law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia. It is a law that has had a deep age, given the speed in which we are replacing the existing law with new ones, which are the results of this law. The law produced catastrophic results. The damage is measured in billions of euros. There is no settlement in Serbia in which people will not show you some property that has been devastated only thanks to the application of this unfortunate law in funds owned by the Republic of Serbia. So the state turned out to be a bad boss, as a bad owner, as a bad driver. I'd like to give you just a few examples of our country's poor bossing in recent history. First of all, I'd like to cite the NIS case. It's the oil industry of Serbia. She's a legal follower of the Duke of Naphtagas. In two ways, the state mismanaged the property, in fact, public enterprises. First, the way the company was privatised tells enough about how much it cared about Serbia's interests. Secondly, NIS, among other things, involves oil exploitation. Oil is natural wealth. Unfortunately, for the next 30 years, this country will make only 3% of the mining rent, five times less than any country in Europe that exploits oil. It's one of the examples of the state having economic wealth. It is these economic treasures, as good as the general interest, that are unquestionable to this public property law. We can't talk about it, it still remains state-owned, although the state has shown itself unable to manage an asset that seems to give jurisdiction. We've waited a long time for this law on public property. We're not satisfied with the reform potential he's offering us. As a curiosity, I would like to mention the Law on Planning and Construction, which, for example, in Article 100, is far more courageously engaged in this own transformation, since users of the unit of local self-government, the province and the Republic become owners, it becomes a public property of undeveloped and built city building land, which previously existed in the form of rights of use. It is a brave move in this Law on Planning and Construction, and I can tell you that the amendment of the LDP's intervention has resulted in that result. To avoid confusion, the 1995 law has circled Serbia's centralisation. This Law on Public Property definitely does not represent discontinuity and definitely does not stop with this bad habit, with this poor practice that we are holding to centralization as the greatest achievement in the development of a country. However, given that there are certain developments, given that there are some good solutions in this law, and if, in our opinion, that is not enough, in our opinion, it is very slow to work on state and legislation reform, i.e. laws that are of such capital importance for the further development of society. We must support this legislative proposal and we will support it with expectations, that this law will soon change and all in that order, that it will actually work to strengthen decentralisation. There's not only one law on public property that can end the business of decentralisation, it's not enough. So we expect this country to do far more in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60572	Thank you. The People's MP Branimir Mitrovica has the word. After him, MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60573	Madam Chairman, Mr Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we are discussing the Law on Public Property, the Law on which the last years, and especially since 2006, have spoken much since the adoption of our last Constitution, I would say, much less, my first comment and my first impressions can be summed up in one sentence – it was high time to pass this law. It's not just my comment and it's not just my opinion, it's the appeal of many representatives of local self-government, those representatives who face daily problems that are related to the lack of such a law. I will remind you once again that our parliamentary group submitted a request to the National Assembly on 4 January last year for the public property law to be found in the assembly procedure. Afterwards, she set out for a serious initiative to collect signatures, and I must say that the coming of this law to parliament is one great success of the URI, but not only ours, but over half a million citizens of Serbia and over 10,000 citizens of my Užic, where I came from, who demanded that this law be found in the assembly procedure. Also, I must say that at that time, along with half a million Serbian citizens, we proposed that the Law on the financing of local self-government be entered into the assembly procedure. I'll remind you that law has already been passed. We expect the first effects by the end of this year, but also the law on the direct election of the president of municipalities and mayors, which has not been in the assembly procedure so far. We do not give up on this proposal, because we believe that for local self-government, and first of all for cities and municipalities, it is very important that mayors and presidents of municipalities are elected in direct elections. As a reason for the adoption of this law, it is said that the adoption of this law is one of the conditions for obtaining a bid to join the EU. It's one of the laws of the so-called law. European agendas. For the adoption of this law, the necessity for essential decentralisation is stated, which is certainly true. However, I would say that in the desire to live better, we are looking for good solutions. Of course, the adoption of public property laws is a good solution. In this House, I represent the citizens of Užica and the citizens of Zlatibor County. He's been enjoying a city that's been struggling to get out of the average for the past few years, but there's a lot of trouble in that fight, and it's hard for him to handle it. There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, I would say that these are subjective reasons that are being viewed and initiated by the current current local government. Very bad traffic infrastructure. I'm also taking this opportunity as always, the absence of Corridor 10, building a highway south of the Adriatic. I must say that the future of western Serbia and Užica as the centre of western Serbia is directly related to the construction of the Belgrade highway -- the southern Adriatic. In the end, but not least, the lack of own property. All this has resulted in investors investing very little in western Serbia and Užice in our neighborhood in recent years. It is devastating that only 3% of young people, after completing studies at major university centres, return to Užice and Zlatibor County. That's the information that scares you. If there's anything we want to change, we need to remove these causes. Today, at the same time, we are removing one of the causes, but also the injustice committed to local self-government in 1995, by the adoption of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia. That it is a very valuable and very important property, it is seen from the data of the immovableity currently used by the city of Uzice, which will be owned after the adoption of this law. The so-called The ZOS pattern, the town of Užice recorded over 4,000 items as assets that the town of Užice will become useful after the law was passed. I'm just going to list some specific examples. For example, a building plot of 21,431 m2, then a building of 70,352 m2, as well as a plot next to a building of 66,387 m2. It is interesting to know that there is an infertile land area of 4.108.788 square meters, then, residential buildings of 6,203 square meters and over six thousand plots along these or by that residential building. It certainly is a valuable asset which in a rightful way to put into operation i.e. To offer it to partners and investors. It is precisely because of this value of this asset that responsibility is an important segment in the application of this law. On this occasion, I would like to touch Articles 22, 26 and 27 concerning the rights to use the concept of availability and decision-making, where it is predicted that things in their own local self-government as well as obtaining things are decided by the local self-government unit, I stress the authorities and units of local self-government. I believe that in these cases it was necessary to stress that this body is a local self-government assembly, because of the importance of the decision, not any other body. So, because of the high value of these immovableities, I think the local self-government assembly should decide what to do with these immovableities. Of course, the responsibility of those who make these decisions is great, but on the other hand, citizens themselves in the coming period have a great responsibility when choosing those people who will make those decisions in the bodies of local self-government and make it. In the end, I must say that I am expressing great personal satisfaction for the adoption of this law, but I am expressing great gratitude to my Uzicans who supported us in promoting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60574	Seven minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Meho Omerovic, followed by Parliamentarian Marija Bulgarcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60575	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government, this law is good for several reasons. The first and basic, in principle, most of the MPs in the RS Assembly are for decentralisation and as much financial as possible, the independence of municipalities and cities, and this very law provides for municipal and city property, a fundamental change that will directly benefit all citizens of Serbia. This will also benefit from the fact that citizens at local level, through elected representatives in local government, will manage and dispose of municipal property and will no longer have reason to experience, as has been the case so often and rightly so far, shifted centres of power that are far from their citizens and without hearing for their real and everyday needs. This law is one of the very important laws, and it seems to me, perhaps one of the most important laws in the package, which Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic spoke of when it comes to the agenda on our path to obtain EU membership candidate status. In addition to financially empowering municipalities and cities, this law aims to put man and citizen first, primarily in the middle in which he lives, therefore, in the municipality, or in the city. The municipality that has the property, you will agree with me, it has both the reputation and the citizens who live in a municipality that has property that is harder to create their own assets logically have their own reputation. The passing of this law is our not only legal but constitutional obligation. I would like to repeat what I was saying when we passed the Law on the financing of municipalities and cities, which is that it is not easy and simple after a very long period of centralism to re-establish centralised. By that I mean, first of all, the local structures of the government, which must be speeded up and introduced and new jobs that await them, not only after the adoption of this law, but also after the adoption of some other laws. When municipal and city property is established, it must be managed by people who know how to do it, so, best of all, let's say the best experts. This is another reason amongst many other reasons why partocracy must give way to managing places of knowledge. The president of the municipality will be expected to be a good host who should contribute to the increase above all municipal incomes, so that citizens of its municipalities live better and have more. Today, we have indeed the presidents of municipalities and mayors who are good and real hosts, but unfortunately, in Serbia this is not the rule. What must be done immediately is that, after the adoption of this law, trainings for local self-government and local property management officials and their rational, or domestic business are organised. In the end, I would like to point out, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the Prime Minister, that I am not satisfied, that I will, through the amendment and explain, to Article 54. With regard to housing, I repeat once again, public-owned apartments, unfortunately retains the existing situation, which means that state-owned dwellings can still, as so far, be leased to public administration employees with the right of purchase. It is even prescribed that housing loans can be shared. To be honest, I expected that the practice of the current destruction of state property and the distribution of privileged dwellings would cease and that this segment would also be reformed in the upcoming bill. That's why I'm saying it's privileged housing distributions, because we passed the Social Housing Act, when Minister Dulic said, I quote -- the law is the basic law in the area of housing. It should, in its essence, be that in view of the fact that the Housing Act that regulates the lease and purchase of apartments is practically exhausted and should be put out of effect. To short the story, there's no reason for the state, the province, the city, the municipality to share apartments with its employees, with the possibility that they might buy them out after, because these apartments should be kept for some part for official purposes. That's fine, but in the second part, we have to define them in social housing that, under equal conditions, all citizens can compete, especially those who have no settled housing issue, including civil servants. Indeed, it is nonsensical for employees of the ministries, in the RS government, in the presidency, employees of the National Assembly, employees of the SO, in the city's congregations, to deal with certain housing commissions of an outdated type of score, checking, peeking into a foreign bedroom instead of focusing fully on their profession and improving their work in local self-government and for the general benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, state authorities are not financial organisations and I don't know how it is possible to distribute housing loans when there are no singles for these purposes long ago. So I ask you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to understand that the state authorities of the administration and the SO are not banks. Please pay attention to this article 54. The draft law and that in preparation for the substantial amendment of this article, in collaboration with the relevant assembly committees, accept the amendment that I will talk about when the time comes, or become more detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60576	Six minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. I apologize to Parliamentarian Maria Bulgarcic. She has been called, and the parliamentary group has taken advantage of its time and it is not usual for us to read the name. Really, it's an unintentional slip. National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word, so MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60577	The Honorable President, Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on public property, and I think as a state and society we are late to pass this law. It is very important to start by saying that the state of Serbia is the last state in Europe to give property to local self-government and all those who fear that local self-government will not manage property well, it is clear when they are well-owned in all countries of Europe, it will prove in time that it is very important for the development of local self-government in the state of Serbia and that they will be good owners of local property. On the other hand, we must admit that we are late to fulfill our obligations under the 2006 Constitution. By 31 December 2008, we were obliged to pass this law. Unfortunately, 2.5 years later we bring it in. It seems to me that we have the impression that we are bringing it under pressure from the EU, that is, to get the candidacy, but what is important today is that we discuss the law on public property. At first, I'm saying that this law is basically a good law. What is important is that we today discuss the Law on Public Property. At first, I'm saying that this law is basically a good law. What the current asset law in the possession of the Republic of Serbia has done the most damage, it is to local self-government. Why local self-government? There's a few important things that make it so. One thing is, you've been wasting a lot of time in certain procedures. Some of my colleagues here mentioned that they would give something into the law, to buy something local self-government, or use it, so that an ordinary school could have a gym, in free time to rent, to get some income, you had to ask for consent from the Property Directorate. Now think about how many municipalities there are, there are 68 municipalities in Serbia and cities as many cities as there are, how many demands a day they arrive at the Property Directorate. We can talk here if it's an operational property management? But it's perfectly clear when you have so many demands, it's very hard to answer within a short time for whoever's looking for it, and then it's a waste of time, so when you get that consent, then you have to do something called public procedure to do it and all that just, um, what it costs, um, you can't finish this quickly. On the other hand, local self-governments couldn't have been more effective in attracting investment, which is important for Serbia today because it's a great unemployment, for a simple reason, because if you want to give a country to a potential investor, you have to get consent from the Property Directorate. It's very clear that it's a waste of time. All those who are in a hurry and who want to invest in one place do not have much time to wait, and competition is great, because not only one municipality in Serbia, but also between municipalities in Serbia, and many investors attract countries in the environment, so it is no wonder that many local self-governments who had a letter of intent for potential investors have failed to realise this idea because the procedure is complicated. When you add all of this together, I'm absolutely sure there was a lot less money in local budgets, and that means there wasn't enough attention to the development of local self-government. For the URS, this law is a political issue, an important political issue, the issue of Serbia's decentralisation, because it is clear that without this segment of decentralisation, Serbia has no more even regional development. Many times in this parliament, we have said that today regional differences in Serbia are large, one to 15 per municipality and one to seven in the regions. If local self-governments don't have property, if local self-government doesn't have the property, if they don't have enough resources for their development, it's clear that these differences will be greater. It is very important for us to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government in June, it is very important that we now adopt this law. We are fully aware that we want to get stable local self-governments that can really care about their development. It is important that the mayor is elected in the direct elections. I am absolutely certain that at some point, perhaps after the next election, if there is no political issue and unity now, the mayors choose directly. In fact, if you have the property, if you have the right income, then you are responsible for the development of a municipality and you cannot hide behind any other political group or other individuals or political groups because the municipality is not in that place that you promised citizens in the election campaign, and that means that citizens will also have to take care of people who choose to run local self-government. As far as the law itself is concerned, what is very important, the titleholders of property are the Republic of Serbia, that is state property, province, province public property and municipal public property. What makes public property is natural wealth, good of general interest and good in general use. It seems to me one important thing, which is not talked about today, which is networks, networks like physically fixed things with their own elements, are used for distribution and for the flow of materials and energy. This law defines networks of general interest. It is also important that networks are publicly owned and that legal entities dealing with energy and material distribution can give them that public property. For example, with the Power Network of Serbia, they will own the Electric Networks. It seems to me that in the basic text of the law, it is left out that local self-government can also give their distribution companies the right ownership of networks. For example, Toplana in the King or in another city itself financed the construction of a hot water line. I think it's a good thing they own it, too. It seems to me that, in the amendments that the government has made, that this thing is also regulated by the fact that it is likely to be settled by the Law on Community Action, because that's something that's defined there. The other thing, which is also important, is that those networks that were until the entry into force of this law, which were private, remain private. There may be one concern, probably this is happening right now in Serbia, that we have private gas distributors, that they can have, and if you have a network, and if you're the one giving the service, then you can form the price yourself. So there's something that needs to be seen, that something that's possible in the future to be a monopoly is avoided, because the bottom line is that citizens get a quality service and the price is the one that's real on the market. What is also important, the law defines how property can be earned, i.e. to buy, how everything that is relevant for the transport of that property can be alienated. It is defined as enroling that property by local self-government and public enterprises. If the property of local self-government can be entered within the next three years of the law-making day, can we discuss whether the deadline is long or short, but the thing to say is – what is the capacity of local self-government at this point? It may sometimes be good to shorten that deadline, for according to the information we have from the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, 17 cities and municipalities have so far gone to the list of these properties. I think after the law's passed, everyone's gonna have to go. We have one thing that is important, and these are local elections that are likely to be in the spring, so maybe it makes sense that this is well assessed, and that is, after all, the requirement of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. Data is the possibility that those municipalities that fail to enter their assets, that the property will be property of the Serbian state, and that for the next 10 years they will be able to own that property. It is important for public companies to enter the property within the next two years and it is important to obtain the consent of the local level, from the founders, i.e. City Halls, if this is a Republic-level enterprise, then the government's consent must be obtained, so they can enroll in that property. I think it's a good solution because we're going to talk about the law on restitution, the return of property and the compensation, that everything that's the subject of the enrollment of property has to be seen that no claim for restitution has been filed. Where there is a request for a refund, it simply cannot be entered, unless the damage has already been made and that it is impossible to return in that form, which I think is in accordance with the government's tendencies, that we have compensation for all the old owners in some relationship. It seems to me that it's very important here for public enterprises that they can have property. It is important here what is the ability of public enterprises, or their management, to be good. The code said a lot how successful these public enterprises are, whether they can be more successful, whether parliament needs to ratify all the duties that go towards public enterprises. What is important now that they have assets on the capital market, in banks, public enterprises can be in charge of some of the investments that are important to them. There is a need to think about what the URS advocates, that we have professional management, not a partocracy that is currently making inefficient businesses in Serbia, we have to admit that. I think that should be taken seriously in the next period. In the end, what is important for this law is that this law meets what we have written in the Constitution. On the other hand, it seems to me that in public enterprises, as well as in local self-government, we will have a more efficient management of the resources we have, we will also have a better functioning of local self-government and public enterprises, and we meet another condition, and that is what we have as a state decision to make – to move towards European integration, which is a condition for obtaining Serbia's country's candidacy. What I mean at the end, I am absolutely certain that the application of this law is important in practice and has shown how much our and local self-government and public enterprises, ultimately and states in general, are capable of applying this law. I am absolutely sure that some things in this law, which may not be well defined at this time, will be seen in application, so sometimes we may also do some amendments and additions to the law, but I am sure that at this moment this law deserves the support of this Parliament and I expect that in the day of voting, it will be supported by most of the parliamentary groups in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60578	Ten minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we're talking about three laws, a law on public property, a law on the return of seized property and compensation and amendments to the Return Act to churches and religious communities. These are three very important laws and I am pleased that they are in preparation and the law on concessions and public-private partnerships, the property law and other real rights and amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which should be rounded up by this set of laws. I think it's a good thing that the same session also discusses the Law on Public Property and the Law on Restitution, precisely because it's normal to have a restitution first, and then a devolution, or in some way realisation of property, i.e. property powers. In any case, I would merely taxively like to point out that this law on public property provides that any level of government, or public utility cannot be entered in property unless there is paper from the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which makes it clear what would be the outcome of the restitution. I think it's a good thing this bill finally defines what it belongs to and we need to enter the age of balanced relations in terms of functionality, to make the most efficient, quickest and most comprehensive decisions. Many things are well solved in the bill. I must say that special attention is given to the economic wealth, good from the general interest and the category of goods in general, where distinguished counterpart Nesovic mentioned the special status of the network, which is very important at all levels of the state. I must say that this bill particularly underlines responsibility, because by establishing the form of property, it also means by binding a certain responsibility for the property itself, the responsibility of both the republican and regional authorities and the authorities of local self-government is increased. Many talked about roads, many talked about the channel network, many talked about many things, not to repeat myself now. This law allows for the conqualification of the procurement contracts, which have been concluded without the government's consent. I'm talking about obtaining from local self-government. It is good that certain amendments are proposed at the last cabinet session, that they are all voted, especially in terms of defining the pathways of the second row, channel networks, unless they are waterways. Then, the issue of immovableity, which are citizens exclusively, for example, by the means of the province, then the immovableity in the former republics, where certain things are defined in terms of responsibility further for the property and as regards the province and local self-government. I have to say, those who remember very well what illogicalities we've encountered in the past 10 years or 15 years. There, somewhere at the end of the 1980s, there was a transfer of competence of local self-government and provinces to the central authorities, regardless of whether something was functional or not functional, but it was mainly the fact that all resources, which existed at local, or at the province level, were well damaged, and on the other hand, the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate was covered by a number of objects which it was objectively unable to solve. In the past few years, life itself has forced the state to even allow the recording of mortgages on state-owned buildings and on those facilities used by local self-government, for loans given to local self-government for capital investment. It is unquestionably all, for all the benefit of such an act, but an illogical and better solution to define what the property of local self-government is, to define what is the property of the province, what is the property of the Republic and then possibly, if there is a mortgage and any burden on such property, to know what it is. I have to say, there were enormous illogicalities on the ground, for example. specifically in Pancheva, I come from Pancheva, a temporary home apartment within the Agricultural School, is allowed to buy that apartment. After a number of years, the buyer, or legal follower, wanted to sell the home apartment in the circle of the Agricultural School. Once again, local self - administration has set aside money to buy the home apartment, so that a foreign person does not come within the Agricultural School and that home apartment has become a republican property again. All of these are some illogicalities that, by voting this bill for the future, such things will not happen. I have to say that all those environments that have had a well-to-do infrastructure, which have done a lot of work on investment, domestically, these get virtually the opportunity to take care of their own, and each and every local self-government will have the responsibility to manage what they get, to enjoy and benefiate, but also to be held accountable if they do not have the right to behave. Far from the eyes, far from the heart, it is certain that whoever sat in Belgrade in the Property Directorate could not create an insight into the overall situation on the ground in Serbia as a whole, and again, I am allowing the increase of responsibility to anyone who is given the opportunity to manage certain assets. I think it's good that the new amendments are made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, certain deadlines have been extended, from three to 10 years in terms of applying for registration, I speak in an example of local self-government in relation to some of the assets on which "exlegio" is entered in the Republic, and therefore, if local self-government requires, if that is basic, there is the possibility of that entry. It is an interesting solution to public and public enterprises in terms of the possibility of enrolment and of the property, but also to decide the founders, whether some property to which public or public utility is predominant should be registered as a public, or as a public utility, or whether it should use that particular country, a particular facility, or certain mobile or immovable things to be better used by the founders rather than invested in a public enterprise. It is good, because yet the assembly, or the competent authority, at each level of government, can better see the general interest than a separate public, or public utility company, which it sees, above all, its narrow interest, and in a less possibility it is able to see the general social interest. In any case, dear colleagues and colleagues, I call for us to be involved in the debate and when we consider amendments to both this and the following laws that we are discussing at this session and that in any case we also pass this law, as well as the Law on Restitution, which I consider to be a correction or at least an attempt to correct a huge injustice that has been brought to a large number of subjects in Serbia. I call upon you to support these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60580	Nine minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. After him, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60581	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government, I don't think we should waste any time convincing each other that the adoption of the Property Act is necessary. Not that it's necessary to bring today, or tomorrow, it was necessary to bring it three years ago. Not just because it's a constitutional obligation, but because it's a life obligation to regulate it in a perfectly normal, correct, human way. However, unfortunately, the story of the law we received a few days ago, I have to start with what we got at noon today, which is 18 government amendments to a reminder of 90 members of the law. In other words, 20% of the law is changing. It's not the first time that this government does that, the most drastic example was when we passed the Information Law, now I'm asking, not going into at all what the amendments are and what they're changing, I'm asking a very far-fetched question, the right of MPs to all in parliament is to submit amendments to the law. The MPs of this parliament have been prevented from submitting amendments to 20% of the law. We can't stand it, the time for the amendment is up, we can't submit amendments to the government's proposal, so we can't, technically we can't. I think this is, I can understand that the government is about to send us amendments to its own text of the law. I don't think it's correct, especially when it comes to such an important law, that on the very day when the law is discussed, amendments that change 20% of the text of the law are sent. Of course, to return to the very nature of the law, there may be two extremes in this matter. These two extremes have unfortunately appeared, even today they appear in our political practice, often wrapped in various landscapes, to be easily swallowed, but let me say, cartoonally simplified, it looks about like this, one where the state is said to own everything, including the air we breathe, and the birds on the branch and benches in the park, and the other is that the state, about, the alas of straw escape and is not the owner of anything, but consists of the ownership of completely independent feuds. It's clear and it doesn't have to be said that both approaches are wrong and that, of course, the truth is somewhere in the middle, but with one great sense of measure. The state, on the one hand, must own everything that is of global importance for the functioning of the state, and the owner of everything else should be different levels of local self-government, including the AP. Unfortunately, and it's actually a fundamental flaw of this law, which the law has not been consistently implemented to the end. Of course, I wish I could recognize that in all the provisions of the law there is some attitude, which is and in some way the owner of something, but that attitude is changing from member to member, in other words the law is asymmetric and he was right, I think, Mr Dinkic when he noticed it. We sort things out for one part of the state, and in another way for the other part of the state, as the old Latina said (not understood), but unfortunately, we have Jupiter's issue, the question of the survival of the government, because some are in a position to blackmail power, and others are not in that position. Then the law is to these first ones, not to these others. I don't want to remind myself that it's been the government for a few months now, and I'm not going to draw any other moral conclusions regarding this and this kind of government. Of course, and that should say, it's not just about whether you're going to return some level of local self-government, because it often means a new cost to local self-government. I assure you that 90% of the country's local self-government in Serbia will not be able to maintain the property you may rightly return to them. In other words, efforts would have to be made, but we do not make this effort, that funding of local self-government is reversing some of the original incomes and local self-government and that it does not depend on whether a government will bring any regulation that will transfer funds, in principle – who I like, who I like, and who I don't like, so much worse for it. There was a lot of talk in the debate today about traffic infrastructure, and that's a very interesting story. It's perfectly understandable to me that local roads and railways can be returned to local self-government, but what does that mean? Is there any material gain on the local roads? No, direct material gain, no. Does it cost their maintenance? It's worth it. In other words, what are we bringing back to local self-government? We give them a new burden for them to invest in these local roads and local railways, and there's no direct profit. However, something I was talking about when we talked about the Law on Railways, but it is not a waste to repeat, traffic infrastructure cannot be reduced to direct cost and direct profit. There are some profits, but on another level, at the state level. It's the state that needs and must have an interest, that there's a local network of roads, that there's a local network of railroads, and I'm going to face it again and again, you know who saw it? They've spotted those we always think a dollar is the main idea of leadership. The Americans saw it in the fifties of the last century, so they can't all down to the dollar unit, so something that's called more criteria programming. In other words, I absolutely think that traffic infrastructure does not go into different views of how the state should be arranged, it should and must, as a matter of great national importance, remain at the state level, not because I stand for centralism, just work, and not because it brings, my God, some profit, so there is now someone to profit, but because it is the biggest profit of traffic infrastructure, the global state interest. Maybe you can make something on highways, maybe you can go on some major railway routes, I believe it's much less than it costs, and it shows that many countries in Europe, not to say everything, finance their railway or their own road network, and it doesn't come to their mind that they need to finance themselves. There is one very interesting question, and why is it that local, or representatives of the AP so advocate to get a stone around their necks? What's the motive? I'm afraid the motive lies only in the domain of politics, in other words, the motive is that they want to get something that is a couple of excelent attributes of statehood. I'm not sure it's a good idea to go in there, and if anything, the experience of the past 40 years has taught us how to break up some country most easily. In the end, this is not a formal remark but I essentially resent the chairman, shortly before one of the speakers, Mr. Canak, called the Serbian Orthodox Church an NGO. To be clear, I don't mean just SPC, I mean all the other churches that exist in the country of Serbia. So, both at the Roman Catholic Church, both on Muslims and on Jews and on three recognized Protestant churches etc. Of course, everyone has the right to be an atheist or agnostic, but he must not insult the feelings of the largest number of Serbian citizens, however much they believe. This is my extremely well-intentioned objection to the chairman, and I think she'll understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60582	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. After him, the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov, and the messenger of the people, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60583	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Chairman, on the working text of the law that arrived in the parliamentary procedure, the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted 18 amendments and a large number of amendments were submitted by the government of the AP Vojvodina. No one can now know the final version of the law, but what is visible and what is recognizable by reading the working text of the law, is the following. The clear intentions of the promoters that are acceptable to the SPS members and SPS MPs are visible. I'll share my discussion in two parts. One part will be a brief analysis of the bill's proposal, and the other part – what we in political terms expect with the final version of the law that we adopt. We've broken through the ears of all governments since 1995, when the poor municipalities, with constricted powers and small assets, were seized by an anti-constitutional coup, and little property. We can give an assessment of the situation 16 years after that, the property then taken away by the Government of the Republic of Serbia – abandoned, derelicted, left behind, the property that collapses wherever you look. The constitution adopted several years ago abolished social property. One legal nonsens, one, was abolished, as professors who taught property-legal relations called it, "the Chard of both heaven and earth". To serious lawyers, serious investors, serious statesmen, no one could explain who owned the company, and what it means to the user and you're not the owner. Then how seriously can you discuss investment, business relations and take seriously this country where, and I am talking about regulated countries, regulated property-legal relations are the most important relations in a society and the precondition for its strong economic development. But it is also the property of the most sacred right, besides its owner, i.e. the landlord, and the state. In this work version of the text of the Law on Public Property, most of the principles of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities have been accepted, as well as the views and recommendations of the Council of Europe expert group. The issue of property, in the end, when this law is passed, we must precisely arrange for every level of government. The primary principle for us from the SPO by law – ex-lege, return most of the property. In the task force to draft this law was also the MP of the province's SPO and the famous lawyer from Novi Sad Milan Djukic and the attitudes expressed by the SPO on behalf of the province's Committee were the SPO's views. In the present state, many presidents of municipalities, many people who manage local self-government, with great ideas, with great projects, could not talk to potential investors at all, because they could talk about how to create some development project for local self-government while at the same time asking the state at the same time, in a procedure that is more than complicated. With the Law on State Property of the Republic of Serbia, the state was the owner of everything, and now with this law on public property, besides the state, there will be significant property in the possession of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, as well as AP Vojvodina. The central question, many respected colleagues have made this excellent conclusion, and this is the question that we are asking, is how will many poor municipalities and cities, when their property is returned, manage that property, maintain that property, increase its value without increasing jurisdiction and without increasing the original ways of financing cities and municipalities? It is a matter of comprehensive financial decentralisation at which the SPO insists on its establishment. What the SPO expects after the debate on amendments, and be assured that any amendment that we believe is best submitted, that it will significantly improve the text of the law, insist that you accept, regardless of which parliamentary groups the amendment comes from. It is vital for Serbia to return all their property to municipalities, including land and building land and forests, and to return to deprived competencies. The municipalities would also have a lease from a business space, and after the adoption of the announced concession law they would probably have the right to make certain revenues based on the concession. There are now largely upside down pyramids of government and power at which the top of the state and super-brains in Belgrade decide on all levels of government, on asset management because, past Belgrade and beyond the top of the government of this country, there are no people who know how to manage their property. It's a completely upside down reson. This law will greatly correct this resolution, but without a comprehensive process of decentralisation, without significantly increasing the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, without new sources of funding, we will not achieve the full effect that I believe is everyone's intention. Now no small or new municipality can support either its municipal administration or cooperate well with the CAP, develop its own travel network, develop a sewerage network, a pipeline network and a series of transactions within its jurisdiction until what we are talking about is done. When we do so, instead of the current abdominal escape after the bread of our citizens from all over Serbia to Belgrade, instead of the demographic discharge of Serbia, we will have the consequences of the process that is happening in Ljubljana. But the state of Slovenia has passed a comprehensive process of decentralisation. We today, unlike Serbia, have the opposite process there. In the last 10 years, Ljubljana has lost 30,000 inhabitants. They're running to smaller municipalities. They do not run away, but go on their own free will, into more ecologically healthy environments, communally equally equipped environments and living conditions as in Ljubljana. This is a process that everyone talks about in a declaration and is not enough in practice in the process of balanced development and the process of fundamental decentralisation. This way to the sea, Serbia, immediately and without hesitation. When the developmental opportunities of our dying villages, towns and provinces, the business gift and the workings of the people, all of Serbia will move towards the progress and biological recovery of the nation. In this process, it is certain that there will be losers. Who are the losers? Well, the losers of this process will be all those who profit today from the robbery, the suffering of their people and the inappropriately large centralisation of Serbia, inherited by the exotic Yugoslavia. The centralized power centers will be stretched out. It's easy to get away from stolen theft and theft. When the people own their wealth of labor, it will be much harder and impossible to rob in his backyard and in his eyes because in small municipalities and environments people know each other and control is direct. In the debate on amendments, I will repeat once again, regardless of which parliamentary groups a good amendment comes from, which is essentially going towards the political thinking of MEPs, we will support it, and in the voting day, since we have recognised the spirit of this law, you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60584	Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. After her, the MP Zlata Djeric. Just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60585	I thank you, Madam Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, there is no doubt that there is an extremely important law in front of us today for more than one reason. The first reason certainly is that this law is one of the laws that Serbia is obliged to adopt on its way to the EU, which has proved to be extremely good laws, laws that we would need all and that we are not going to the EU, which help us to introduce standards that make this country more organised, more orderly, that make life easier for our citizens. Certainly, many examples of countries that have no intention of entering the EU, yet they apply European standards and adopt European laws, says that these laws are good, that they are useful and that we should certainly be satisfied that we are encouraged to adopt them in this way. Another reason why this law is important is that it represents the correcting of an injustice which was committed 15 years ago to local self-government and autonomous provinces in our country and which has actually made local self-governments in Serbia the only local self-governments in Europe that do not have their own property, and unfortunately made our country the only country in Europe that has refused to return property to local self-government until now, and therefore I think that the adoption of this law is one big step forward, which will actually, in fact, create conditions for people across Serbia, citizens of all local self-government to take advantage of all the opportunities provided by this law and actually find a way to create their own life and in places that are not the center of Serbia, and to find opportunities for life that they can have. Unfortunately, the adoption of this law is being followed, it would say, by unnecessary controversy. First, there was a mysterious appointment, so cancelling the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, a controversy over the work of the Working Group for the draft of this law. There are amendments to the government that have changed this law to such a degree that it can be spoken of, even today we are discussing a bill that is different from yesterday's, and of course, most of the phenomena of some political issues that follow the adoption of such laws that should not actually be. We only remember how much politicisation of all the laws that restores any level of jurisdiction or local self-government or autonomous provinces has been and how much this politicisation has damaged the atmosphere in our society in general and the atmosphere in which these laws are passed. This law also characterises LSV totally unnecessary delays. Eleven years have passed since the first promise by the then democratic opposition to Serbia to adopt the law. Three years have passed since the obligation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this law and for this reason I say, the success of this government is great, and it is good that this law is finally in front of the MPs. Regardless of all the good things that this law brings, regardless of the property that local self-government will receive, there are, of course, certain differences. As it is known. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina belongs to those parties who believe that Vojvodina must also have ownership rights over all those assets that are partly, mainly or entirely financed by AP Vojvodina and its citizens. However, we are aware that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as that of the previous Milosevic Constitution, recognises neither the governing nor the founding nor the ownership rights of the Vojvodina's own over major systems that it has in the past rules. It's a fight we won't give up on. It's a question of changing the Constitution. Unfortunately, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was proposed in 2006, we were lonely in our fight against the Constitution. We weren't exactly lonely, the people of Vojvodina stood by us. I will remind you that this referendum has not passed in the AP Vojvodina. Because of this and because we are aware that most of the problems the AP Vojvodina has today in terms of economic problems stem from this Constitution. We will continue our fight, and we will insist that the AP Vojvodina belongs to all those assets that she herself has built. We heard in today's debate, as well as in many debates, whenever it comes to any assets of the AP Vojvodina, that parties like mine advocate to return to the 1974 Constitution. It is an argument that is as valid as the argument is valid, that those who advocate restitution are in favour of the 1944 state. It's about establishing one principle, that's the principle that whoever built something must also have property rights over what he was building. We had opportunities that I was extremely pleased with, and that was precisely those who were great opponents of the property of the Vojvodina, who rebelled against the property of the Vojvodina. I hear the guy's arguments - why is Vojvodina getting something now? I guess we were in Surdulica, Vranjska Banja, or we were building something somewhere else. I'm glad those colleagues finally got into the essence of decentralisation. The point of decentralisation is that each one belongs to what he built. So, just as we advocate that Vojvodina belongs to what it was building, we advocate that Surdulica belongs to what she was building, that every municipality in our country belongs to what she was building, which is not necessary for the normal functioning of the country. The government of Vojvodina, as we have seen, has given some amendments. She did it in quite a ignorance, and some would say, a non-democratic way, given that she abused the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina as some kind of threat to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but for that I suppose those who run the government of Vojvodina will have to account for the citizens, who are candidates in the elections, a very different programme that meant much more autonomy for Vojvodina than it is today, than what today stands for. We, too, have submitted our own amendments, with the support of the government's amendment to Vojvodina. They relate, first of all, to the ownership of agricultural land in Vojvodina, to the opening of the possibility of one day entering Vojvodina and additional systems, to enter even more property. Depending on these amendments, we will define whether or not we will support this law. When the debate is in particular, we will explain these amendments. I will only end up being, one of my colleagues is ironically speaking about this law, saying that when this law is adopted that honey and milk will come tomorrow and that citizens across Serbia will be better off. No, it won't grow honey and milk. It may not be better for them right away, but what no one can deny – it is that those closest to their lives and those closest to them will be able to solve their problems. This is the biggest contribution this law makes and if it wasn't for these misunderstandings, when it comes to the AP Vojvodina and its assets, we would be happy to support this law. However, there remains another major problem. I hope that we will be able to smooth it out to the end and that LSV MPs will be able to fight for what they consider necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60586	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Zlata Djeric, then MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, Your Honor, Mr Vice President, we have before us a law that has really caused a number of controversy while he has been in public listening and, of course, you will allow us to create certain views towards him, and in the day of voting, we will be made known by how many of us or how much we have convinced you of the validity of this law. However, when a law like this is ahead of us and this much is said about the interests of the citizens, I must say one thing and remind both my colleagues and my citizens of something that is indisputable. There is no MP in this high house who does not want, when he comes to his city tomorrow, to say that he has not really taken up that his city has more, to be better, and that from tomorrow on, the effect in this home of our work is seen. I come from a city that I always proudly say was a European city two and a half centuries ago, when Belgrade was a Turkish barracks. I come from Somboro, which for centuries and a half has a railway, which has almost a century and a half has a theater, a museum, from the same city where the text of "God of Justice" was created in our great Salivel mayor, his secretary wrote that text, from the same city where they still get mixed up in front of their house every morning. So that's what I like to say. Let me tell you, about this unbreakable relationship in these late hours of our work, Vojvodina and Serbia or Somboro and Serbia, even these famous trumpeters in Guca came from Somboro. Schlezinger left Somboro and built the first trumpet orchestra during Prince Milos in Serbia. It's something Sombor can be proud of, and I'm glad I can say it. But let's get back to the law. So when one of these laws is passed, then you have something that is a visible stream of things and something that is an invisible stream of things. I welcome that my city has more tomorrow, that it can dispose of its property, because my city will surely appreciate and be able to do so, as it has been known in these two and a half centuries, how we have fought to be a free royal city. That's not what I'm worried about. I'm more concerned about them, as I like to say, the political commissioners from the neo-altered houses, who are taking on more power, more power, more rights, and, of course, deny many things to the citizens of Serbia on behalf of political power. Mr. Vice President, there's a lot we don't agree on in this law. We've submitted the amendments, but in time I'm going to ask you for a member, who's really intrigued me, and that's something I thought belonged to that part of the invisible flow of things. This is Article 31. — alienation of the immovableity below the market price. Otherwise, he draws my attention to the particular verb "to alienate" which is too, my taste, too often repeated in this law. Article 31 says - exclusively from Article 29(1) of this Act, immovableities can be estranged from public property and below the market price, i.e. without compensation, if there is an interest in such availability, such as resolving socio-humanitarian issues, you have today abolished it by amendment, eliminating the consequences of elemental disasters, or establishing good relations with other countries, i.e., right now, this has really bothered me more than this previous syntagma, international organisations and in other cases specific law. What are international organisations and other countries, where can you let some government give public property to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to alienate it, in the name of this relationship? I'd like you to explain to me, since I'm not a lawyer, I believe that the task force has done this seriously, which countries in Europe have similarly arranged a relationship to their property? That would be an interesting question. It is one of the amendments that we have submitted to this law and which we really think you should do differently, at least this member, solve. The alienation of property is something that is the ultimate goal, something that the citizens of Serbia are on, and we know that the people who have always loved taps, loved to have papers in the property, to know that, so this law goes in favour of it. The alienation of property is something we're all very sensitive to. What we were finally talking about in that law about 15, 16 years as it was waiting for us was that we got it within a very short time, that it could be the right political position and it didn't have to, that before it was going to be passed a law on the compensation of citizens, but we're going to pass it through the restitution law, but to bring 20 more amendments to that same law today, 18 amendments, means 20% of that same law, that the next day, that is, the next day after we got it, you change, it's a little bit, Mr. Vice President, irresponsibly, I'm not going to say another addition that would stand there. You yourself did not agree with your opinion until the end, or you may have made some concessions that we were not informed of. It is not good that such a law, which is really important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for each environment and which should contribute to decentralisation, is accompanied by a lot of controversy in which we recognize both visionaries and mechanics. But what is it, there it is, it's our political reality. Mr. Vice President, I would only remind you that in this law, which is the essence of the property that needs to be taken care of and which must be dealt with in the long run, it is not one of those laws that we will soon be able or have to change. So you know you're reducing the degree of acquired rights. They need us to be particularly sensitive, because they are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We expect you to show enough understanding and width for all amendments, to recognize and be a visionary, how much can you, what can come, and today you are very clearly distracted by what can happen after the adoption of this law, to remind you of one good rule – who rules the situation? It's the one that controls four central fields in chess: d4, e4, b5 and f5. I don't think at this point the government has that quality or that advantage, that it has lost to others and that around these three laws that are waiting for us today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, which Serbian citizens are very closely following, perhaps more carefully than any law-making so far, we all have equal and great responsibility. You have an obligation to view every amendment as already in the law and what it could produce if it was introduced into the law. That is what we expect from you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we cannot all be right, but those whose voice is final and whose proposal is last adopted, and who comes before the citizens of Serbia as executives, has great responsibility. I'm afraid this government doesn't have much time to fix some results. A few years ago, a colleague said, it took her three years to find this law, which she had committed to three years ago, before the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I am afraid that even in one time extortion before the EU and some missionaries who have come to remind you that all obligations have been taken over. So we expect, in any case, that the law on public property should be, above all, for the benefit of the citizens and be respected without any political vanity, the best intentions and best suggestions of all MPs in this House. Indeed, what I said at the outset, there is no representative of the people in this home who does not want a good environment from which he came. The only thing that's difficult in the whole story is that we're not talking about this demagogue anymore about how this law is going to be a solution and how it's going to bring people back where they came from -- to Belgrade. He won't. As long as a square in a two-way in Belgrade, living space will cost 4,000 euros, same as a two-bedroom house in my Somboro's villages, people will still strive to squeeze into that square and sell their houses at 4,000 euros. It's another strategy this government hasn't talked about yet, and it's looking for a solution, but we'll do it on another occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60588	The word is made by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, and then by MP Zeljko Tomic. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60589	I thank you, Madam Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is an extremely important, great law, system law, I would say one of the ten most important laws adopted, or passed in this assembly of parliament. I will remind you that public property is a constitutional category, according to the 2006 Constitution, and it is elaborated on making constitutional norms, other constitutional norms, the provisions of this law. In our legal order, for two decades now, there has been one anachrons, an overriding non-functional form and understanding and understanding of the forms of state property, and such a single model, hence the foundation of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the 1995 Law, which was updated in 1996, 1997, 2005 and so on. This model, which has been overcome, comes from one concept of the comprehensive state property of an all-powerful state and all-powerful state property that eliminates autonomous provinces and eliminates local self-government. I will also remind you of the principle of public property and this constitutional standard of public property, to put you in line with a constitutional standard that says that the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy and local self-government. These two norms are coherent and must have their place in this law that we are discussing today. If these standards were only to remain nominal, only declaratively without this law, they would have one virtual local self-government, virtual decentralization, virtual form of autonomous province. This law largely materialises this constitutional norm through a consistent normative and functional development of the Institute of Public Property. Therefore, public property holders are the state, the Republic of Serbia, the province and units of local self-government. The subject of public property is natural wealth, good in general use, good in general interest, things used by the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, bodies and organisations of autonomous province, units of local self-government and other things provided for by this law, which are primarily commercial matters. I would like to point out something that has not been spoken about today, and as regards the solutions given in the proposal for this law, which is that investment in capital is treated as available, which has not been the case so far, and has been a very large obstacle to the availability of funds, when the state, now and the autonomous province, or local self-government units, invests funds in public property in the capital of public enterprises and capital companies established by these public property holders. The right to use, which was previously dominant, will remain in the portfolio, so to speak, the institution, local communities and city municipalities, and fully eliminate that legal identity in relation to the local self-government unit, so municipalities and cities and AP Vojvodina. The law that is before us gives us the possibility that city municipalities can also be holders of public property rights, if provided for by the statute of the city. This is what I consider to be one of the important domains of this law in terms of decentralisation of the state government and decentralization at all. What is also less said, and I think that in the opening statement, Mr. Vice President, is that investment in capital is an exception, it is stated in the law, it is natural wealth, good in general use, good in general interest, network, and networks are one special category of goods of general interest that has not been defined so far and remain in public property. It is important to say that the networks are defined as things that serve the flow of energy, the flow of matter and are consensually defined according to European standards, and are primarily meant by municipal networks, water lines, sewerage, gas networks, and on some global plan are transmission power grids, distribution power grids, gas pipelines, freeway pipelines, etc. When it comes to good use in general, I would like to say that the good in general use is in a certain way separated from the goods of general interest, primarily because of the agreement with the Constitution and because of the fact that part of the goods in general use, practically and in law and other provisions, are passed on to the property of the AP Vojvodina, the roads of the second order, as well as the property, which I will later talk about, and the streets, squares, parks, municipal roads, untegrated roads, it is transmitted to the units of local self-government. This is huge progress and a big step made by this law. In my view, it is still important to say that the Republic of Serbia retains an ex-legislative entry on natural resources, on those resources in general use that have not been transferred to the provinces and units of local self-government, as well as on the good of general interest. The AP Vojvodina, a unit of local self-government, on the principle of use, is transferred to funds, i.e. immovable and mobile things, which serve to carry out the work of the authorities and organisations of the province and units of local self-government, then those who use institutions established by the province and these units and are given certain specific instruments, which, as the municipal networks pass into public property, and units of local self-government. I would like to say that this law is largely harmonised with the solutions in the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. When we talk about the funds used by public enterprises founded by the AP Vojvodina, that is what is well and positively resolved by the amendments made by the government during today, established yesterday, and delivered today to the National Assembly. I will remind you that the state roads of the second row are roads connecting the region and places between the region. That's very important for the AP Vojvodina. The Channel Network in Vojvodina is owned by the AP Vojvodina, unless it represents waterways. The real estates which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are consistent with the constitutional provisions on the funds of the AP Vojvodina budget, which are built by these funds, which are financed directly by the Capital Investment Fund, it is important to know our citizens, are passed by this law in the possession of the AP Vojvodina. And as for the AP Vojvodina under four, the facilities that were once at the disposal of the AP Vojvodina institutions that it founded in the former republics or are possibly registered now. So that's what this law also passes into the possession of the AP Vojvodina. It is also important here to say that there is a possibility, given by this law, that public property holders transfer property from one subject to another, therefore, the right to public property in transport and that is regulated by the amendment that the government has submitted. Therefore, that transfer may be burdensome or unreserved, either with compensation or without compensation. As far as enrolment in public books is concerned, it is important to say that the state which, by the way, the owner is now enrolling in "exlegage" and the other carriers are enrolling so-called. with a constant enrolment. The application is submitted to the public registers and, in my opinion, these deadlines for enrolment are set in one national and comprehensive manner and it is envisaged that if public property holders do not apply for registration after ten years, that property is transferred to state property, i.e. in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say that we have taken this law one big step towards decentralisation of the state government, by resolving the public property institute in the first place, but we have also opened the issue and largely resolved the status of public enterprises, by predicting that in the possession of the public enterprises of which AP Vojvodina or units of local self-government, municipalities and cities will become titlers of property rights on buildings and on land they use. But what is important here to say is that often public enterprises have been a brakester in local self-government development, i.e. a braker of potential investment. Now we have one solution that I will illustrate on one occasion that if a local water company owns an object in which it has its own business premises, offices, etc., an entity in which machines serving the functions of the company are kept, it is not disputed that it will be owned by that public enterprise. However, if this is a public company, in particular a local water pipeline, located and located on a plot that is 10 hectares of example, this public company will not be able to dispose of this building land, that plot without the consent of the founder, or without the consent of the Assembly of the units of local self-government. Therefore, if the Assembly of Local Self-Government assesses and assesses that the land is in a function of carrying out the work of the local public enterprise, this land will be owned by a public enterprise if it is deemed to be in the interest of local environment development, attracting investments from the local self-government assembly will now make a different decision and that land is intended for construction and investment. I want you to. I say, in the end, that the process of decentralisation of the state government by this law is very significant, we can't say that this is an epochal law, I'm going to paraphrase at the end of the Nile Amstrong, which in 1969 said that something small is a step for a man but great for humanity. I'd say this is a small step for true decentralisation, but a big step for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60590	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60591	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything that has happened in recent months, and about the proposal for a law on the public environment, speaks of how the ruling coalition does not have the capacity to regulate a very important area, what is public property. It is unfortunate that the politicisation of this law was allowed, even quoting some MPs of the ruling coalition who said this law was politicized. But for the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens, who has politicized this law? Is it the opposition, by any chance? Where in the last few months how long stories of the Public Property Bill have taken you to see that someone from the opposition has politicized this law. No, only from the government's ranks came the politicisation of the public property bill. The text of the bill, I will have to repeat what several MPs have said, has been approved, not a minute to 12, but in 12 and many minutes. We started the session today, and we had the opportunity to get amendments to the government after an hour of two debates, because the AP Vojvodina, the authorities of Vojvodina, had negotiated and barely, not at the last minute, but after the last hour, had agreed on something that we had obtained in the form of amendments, which is the subject of a months-long papazian, more month-long messaging on this law. I must repeat, we have received today from the Government 18 amendments to 90 members of this bill. It's again possible to quote one of the MPs of the ruling coalition, a completely different law than the one we had yesterday. The working group on the draft of Prime Minister Cvetkovic was formed in April of this year, and I do not think that the task has been properly carried out, in fact has not been carried out at all, the Working Group has not passed this law, we do not find the Working Group formed on a proposal from the Prime Minister to draw up this law. The president of the Working Group, Mr. Bojan Kostreš, who himself admitted that the Working Group for Lawmaking is not in a position, quotes – that it is making political decisions and that it provides a political consensus for the adoption of public property laws. What's he saying? I repeat that I am talking about the full and unnecessary politicisation of the public property law, but it is also talking about something else, shooting at all the stitches of the ruling coalition. What's been going on over the past few months, I'm going to say very quickly. The first and first adoption of this law as well as the one on the restitution is practically as we know it was forced under EU pressure, and there is a little pinnacle that no one has mentioned today, and we are talking about Vojvodina for half a day, that the European Parliament's resolution since 19 January of this year is also calling for the continuation of the process of transferring power to the AP Vojvodina, just by passing certain laws, and especially by the one we are discussing today. This is not the first time the European Parliament has interfered with the internal affairs of the Republic of Serbia, in this way. It happened for the first time that an emergency session of the AP Vojvodina Assembly was scheduled, by emergency procedure. This was the first time, i.e. the first time, that was the time that the duchy government was to react to the relationship between the republican authorities and the province's administration, all due to the public property law. That session hasn't been held, we've heard a little moaning about why it hasn't been held, but there's going to be a chance for some more opportunities to do something else about property, property, etc. Furthermore, I intend to quote several copies of the press that speak of the many times mentioned politicization and of the very lack of a ruling coalition in the making and adoption of this law. I will quote here the present Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who expected a broad consensus, not only within the ruling coalition but throughout the Serbian Parliament. You didn't have it, Mr. Djelic, all these months, that consensus didn't exist, so don't accidentally say it did. But you didn't have it today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, within the ruling coalition. Come on, to some extent and to imply that the opposition would harshly criticise this law, but so many dissonant tones in the ranks of the ruling coalition couldn't expect you either, I suppose. You didn't have a consensus in the DS, the headquarters of the ruling coalition, compared to Belgrade – Novi Sad, or the Republic government of the province government, and you didn't even have it in the Assembly, you didn't have it in the RS government itself. That's why it's been all this long, so this is how it all turned out, and that's why you pissed off all of us MPs, but God help me and the citizens of Serbia. There was no public debate, Mr. Djelic. On the site of your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, certain objections, I will taxfully state, have submitted LSV, SVM, BIA, Elektroprivreda Sr., one law firm and Sokobanja Municipality. That's all she gave you certain objections, at least that's how we saw it at the finance ministry's fair. The public debates, in fact, were not there, because we didn't know either, you didn't know what we were going to talk about today, how many amendments you were going to submit in 12 and a lot of minutes, not five to 12, as I said before. Next, one address: "Secret alignment of the public property law". Transparency, it's your favorite expression, it's nowhere to be found. Secret alignment. President of the Working Group, Bojan Kostreš, quote – the issues in question concern the public property of autonomous provinces over large systems, i.e. Telekom, Railways, Elektroprivreda, roads, post office. The railways are excluded, but Telekom is not mentioned. Working group president in a wedge, you in a board. Also, Bojan Pajtic, Vojvodina is asking for regional railway routes, a channel network and other infrastructures, as well as anything else financed from the Railway Capital Investment Fund. In public, there's one thing, you're secretly agreeing on another, we don't know what's going on here. The text was made past the Working Group, which was specially formed for this reason, so that the formal president of the working body, Bojan Kostreš, handed over the draft to Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic before consulting with other members of the group. If it wasn't tragic, it would be more than funny. Analysts, in essence, will be able to dissipate the few remaining assets. It was first done in Belgrade, now Vojvodina is fighting for it "rightly", and the locale is expecting its share. By introducing a concept – public property, the real owner is clouded, and management is delegated through the political system, which completely eliminates responsibility, as our current democratic practice has shown. President of the Republic, Boris Tadic -- I will not sign anti-constitutional solutions. Whether he suggested it, he is obliged to explain it to all of us, perhaps you, Deputy Prime Minister, to explain to us what it means, whether it means that there was a suspicion that there would be some anti-constitutional solutions, so he had to react himself to the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. Very interesting. Today we also had a lecture from history, by MPs, so-called The autonomous parties, so we heard in 1869, that the first railway was built in Vojvodina, and something was mentioned in 1920, and it immediately jumped to 1980 and one, as the desolation of the Duke's railroad arose. Today, another autonomous MP said that in the last 80 years, the train of Vojvodina has been destroyed, interesting. They didn't want to say exactly what it meant. It is precisely that the political fathers and fathers of these MPs and the parties they come from, not to mention all those political autonomys from the 1970s from Nandor Major, to Živan Marelj, Zivan Milisavljevic, and in the 1970s, they pulled the thresholds and rails across Vojvodina, they destroyed the duchy railway for two reasons. Apparently, they said it was more economical to build roads, not railways, railways, and that it was discovered that there were oil in Vojvodina and that because of the many wells to be built, it was not meaningful to have railways all over Vojvodina. This reminds me of the government of Slobodan Milosevic, who discovered oil in Turkey, so some MPs at the time suggested that Serbia request admission to OPEC membership. Serbia has never been an oil force, nor will it be, however, wanted by the Toonomad Slobodan Milosevic, however wanted by the duchy autonomists, whose political children today speak and hide it like a snake's feet. Railways were destroyed in Vojvodina, I repeat, political mentors, today's autonomous parties destroyed, not the church, the SPC especially, not some Serbian clerofashists, some kind of Chetniks, etc. Since it's easy for others to find fault, it's hard to hide the truth here in the O.R. today. What do you expect from a man, I'm talking about Nenad Canka, who once said that Vojvodina is the neighbour of five states, so let's name Romania, Hungary, Croatia, Bosnia, and who is the fifth neighbour, that is, neighbour Serbia. When Vojvodina, or some Vojvodina politicians, put in the same plane, not to say in the same basket as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania and Hungary, Serbia, it is not surprising today's debate that many have had objections, but they could not get the word. More railways in Vojvodina, so we Novosadians know best, because how many abandoned railways are in Vojvodina? Here's the railroad, and today there's all weed and growth, Petrovadin - Beocin. With that railroad, I don't think the 50-year train has passed, and if it's 40, I apologize. No, there's no sense of today's political parties from Vojvodina talking about Vojvodina as well as some big political entity, no practicality, no pragmaticity, and that's why this debate has been politicised, and all these months and today, because they're pulling political points and nothing more. What do the people of the Vojvodina have from today's story of the railroad, the roads, the main, the side? They've got nothing, that's all. You only did this because you were pressed by the EU. The provinceal authority in Vojvodina has seized for itself competences that are not within the Constitution of Serbia and we expect, that is one message, that the smaller Serbia in Vojvodina will live better. We at the DSS will always stand up to it and this fight is not to make citizens better, but to open up more opportunities for corruption and personal wealth of the provinces...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60592	People's MP, I beg you, for two minutes, and this is how you used more in the spirit of good debate, so please without abuse. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60593	as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, since I haven't used my time, respected vice president, Deputy Prime Minister, I would just like to say in the end that the full debate today shows me a few essential things, that no one argues that this law is very important. No one essentially questioned that he was in accordance with the Constitution and that he was created as an obligation to regulate the issue of public property as provided for by the Constitution. No one has disputed, regardless of what some claim to be a lack of decentralisation, but at the same time a surplus of decentralisation, and it is difficult to conclude, whether they are centralisedly struggling for local self-government to gain more jurisdiction, and hence the right to property, while believing that a centralised state is what should exist. The debates of some MPs here have shown, some have not even read the law, that some have read the law only from the point of view of their narrow ideological understanding of the state and the way the state should be organised. Of course, as always, this topic was an opportunity to conduct some political and party action, where I really don't see the justification for the argument in which the Constitution was foreseen, which is precisely what those who have now attacked these solutions are drilling that their merit is what it is, that he predicted exactly these forms of property and that he predicted this measure of property that implies the property of local self-government, autonomous province and property of the Republic of Serbia. So this constitution that they claim is their merit is actually what this law goes from and within what this law moves. There are amendments that need to be seriously considered. So there are amendments that can help make this text of the law clearer, and what is very important, that everything that can contribute to raising the application of this law and make this law more effective, I think the government and MPs of the ruling majority need to pay attention to and accept all these amendments. Because what's important about this law is that we don't pass it, it's important for this law to apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60594	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60595	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, in the principle of public property law, I would just like to note that there have been various positions, but that it is essentially time to pass one of these laws. First, as Mrs Kolundzija said, because the Constitution, which is the predecessor of this law and this law is actually one of the obligations of the Constitution adopted in 2006, foresees to provide that dose of decentralisation and rationalisation in the functioning of a state that is in line with such a Constitution. We saw today during the debate that there are other ideas, but that they will have to wait for democratic confirmation of the change of the Constitution. And it's a legitimate democratic struggle and it's a possible outcome. I believe that over the past few years it has been observed that the Constitution which has been the subject of broad consensus, incomplete but broad consensus, has elements to improve. I believe that in the years to come, and I certainly will not speculate on the right moment when it will happen, there will be a change in this domain. However, the Law on Public Property will allow, above all, those who make decisions, on behalf of the citizens who chose them, to have more power, more efficiency, more opportunities. But I want to add more responsibility right now. Because responsibility follows ingenuity. Today, we have often heard how many central levels the government has disabled, slowed down, but, at the same time, why not say so, and there has been an excuse for a number of people who may not have worked enough, may not have been persistent enough, and there has always been an excuse that someone in a ministry somewhere in Belgrade has not done his job quickly and quality enough. Of course, that was often true, but not rarely a very comfortable excuse. Because of all this, with this decentralisation measure that is essential, decentralisation is primarily political, but as several speakers have said today, it's a really empty story unless there's an ingenuity. And on paper, unless there are budgets and if there is no property that can implement it, it is still within the scope of a political declaration but not yet a concrete programme and concrete works for citizens who voted in favour of such programmes. If this esteemed home votes this law, we will have a public sector that will have three very clear and recognizable levels. We will have a public sector and a public property whose governance will be clearly regulated by the fact that those usual property laws are applied to the property that public property holders have, unless otherwise specified by this law. We have 10 years of theoretical debate about whether the state should have public property, on the one hand, and at the same time private property. We have made it clear here that public property holders can invest this public property in public and public-communal enterprises. From that moment on, the property becomes the property of these companies, which does not mean that it is private. Because otherwise these companies would be private. There are also certain specificities in the management of these companies, which is quite normal, because otherwise they should not exist, but there would be competition and only a market that would meet the needs of our citizens at a republican, regional and local level. A few speakers today well noticed that this law is just the beginning. It is a start because it involves a huge job, a huge job at a local level, to prepare the necessary papers, the necessary procedure to obtain the registration of property. A huge job because the founders are waiting for a strategic dialogue with public and public-public enterprises. Finally, what is often the subject of debate in our public life gets a certain outcome in real life. Not to mention that there are too many public enterprises, that they are mismanaged, here are now new opportunities, but also responsibilities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for national public enterprises, in the province, in the city, in the municipality, for the circuit public enterprises they run, to determine what they need and what they don't need. But at the same time, when things are entered into property, then these public enterprises have full capacity, to be on the one hand ready for competition that will appear in a number of such activities. On the other hand, the fact that no constitution can predict everything and therefore, in this law, we have very specific provisions on continuation, but also alienation of public property. I insist on estrangement because we have a law on public procurement, but we don't have a law on public estrangement, i.e. on the alienation of public property and therefore the key provisions concerning the second aspect of how public property is being sold or invested, essentially this law must be this parent law and therefore, with the provisions that we have here, a number of quality amendments that we want and we want to accept and sublegal acts that the Government must adopt, this will be very important for the application of this law. At the same time, when we look at what is proposed and we have some 155 amendments, I can immediately say that after the first reading, and that is not yet the government's decision, but it will be my proposal for a session that should be held tomorrow, that is to say that at least 20 of these amendments will be accepted. I believe it will prove very clearly that there is no ideological awareness, there is this amendment that almost all political parties have proposed. I believe that with this promotion, along with these amendments that the government has adopted and that it will provide, which I am convinced of, a very broad majority, we will have a very good law on public property. A law that will ensure that our country is fundamentally closer to the citizens, that those who make decisions are closer to those to whom they give their trust and mandate. In this way, both efficiency and accountability will be better combined. When the streets are fixed, the president can no longer say he's waiting three weeks, four weeks, two months, for someone from the Republic Property Directorate to give him some paper. He won't have to anymore, and he won't be able to say he's waiting to make a deal, so he's about to get the director of "The Way of Serbia" on the phone. It was humiliating and it was not systemically well done. It opened, openly speaking, and a lot of room for political influence, for some things for which there must actually be a system. The system today, it is that for all local roads, untegrated roads, squares, streets, parks, all the presidents of municipalities and cities will have, not only legal authority, but property and through changes adopted in June of the month in this house and money to advance as far as possible, the public finances of the Republic of Serbia ensure the daily life of our citizens. The roads are one example, there will be many more, rationalising the way in which the administration generally uses real estate, the opportunities to deliver from the public sector what does not belong to it, to see if there are these hotels, whether there are medical equipment that does not belong to the railways, but rather whether they should be, for example, united in what is the health system of the Republic of Serbia and that these public enterprises are fully focused on what they are formed for, their significant activity. Therefore, I believe that through a law like this, and I conclude, the Republic of Serbia is finally getting a modern law on public property. It gets the opportunity to see clearly who does what, what belongs to him within the state, and that it will benefit all citizens of our country. Thank you very much for your attention and for this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-20-0.u60596	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the hope that our work in a similar spirit will continue, and when there is a search in particular, I conclude a principled search of the proposal for a law on public property. This concludes work for today and continues tomorrow, September 21st at 10.00 p.m., in the principle of the next item of the agenda. Thank you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 98 MPs, and in order to determine the number of MPs who put their parliamentary cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please determine whether there are any working conditions. I find that the electronic system has established that 87 MPs have inserted their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system and that another number of MPs are present in the hall, and there are conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the normal work of the National Assembly session. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: the National Assembly President, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, MP Milos Radulović and MP Riza Halimi. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, called for the sittings to be attended by Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Svetlana Markanovic, adviser to the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers. We continue our work and move on to the principle search of the 2nd item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE RETURNING OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTS AND REFERRED TO YOU HAVE received the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as to be allocated to parliamentary groups of approximately the number of MPs, so that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G 17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with lists of MPs who wish to take a word in the debate and in their order, and on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure so that a list of speakers could be drawn up. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Nikola Novakovic, MP of the URS; MP Dejan Mirovic, SRS parliamentary group and MP Laslo Varga, Parliament group of Manjin. Are there any other authorised representatives? Not yet. If the parliamentary groups decide to empower one of the members of the group to represent them during the debate in principle, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of Proposer Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Bozidar Djelic.
