ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62723	Ladies and gentlemen, the motions proposed that Article 3 be made. The bill is deleted. I could not agree with that, because I think it is very necessary to define in the law the terms used in the proposal for a law on residence and residence of citizens. If this did not occur, it would allow arbitrary interpretation of the provision. But I have one more thing to say, a few words about all of us who have a residence and residence in the town of Panchev. According to the latest list of 150,000 citizens living in the town of Panchev with settlements, and it was all of us who had a big problem among other things and getting ready for today's session, and today we are discussing amendments to the Bill on residence and residence of citizens, precisely because we were exposed all night to single air pollution and a great concentration of benzene and other polluting substances. It was all of us who had a residence and residence in Panchev that we were in a position to think about whether we would be in a position to seek medical intervention because children who had problems with respiratory organs were normally parents concerned, many of them brought their children to school this morning and that is exactly what will be the occasion, to ask themselves tomorrow, when all MPs are able to ask the question to the competent state authorities. I must say again, that this issue is of interest to all those who have a residence and residence in Panchev, to finally resolve the issue of aero-pollution, because regardless of the atmospheric conditions, regardless of the temperature inversion, regardless of the fog that was in the city this morning and during the night, I believe that there is also a possibility that certain other processes in production can reduce the risk of pollution. In any case, I am going back to the subject of the agenda, I believe that the amendment that has been submitted, where it is proposed to delete members where the term citizens are defined, the concept of residence, the concept of residence, the concept of home address and other concepts, that this is exactly what should remain in the law, and that we all definitely know that these basic concepts should be defined in the law. But I think that this second part of my discussion should be worth the attention and I expect a reaction in that part, especially by the competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62724	Three minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word in search of the details of the amendment to Article 3? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd Amendment together includes national MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, enough of what we've already criticised in the law. Of course, I will take the opportunity to point out once again how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to understand and does not want to accept even those suggestions that are extremely well-intentioned. Article 3 defines the concepts which apply in this law. You used the word "expression." The word "expression" is not a word commonly used in laws in the Republic of Serbia, but rather definitions are defined by certain laws. It's the first drawback that may be the smallest in this law, but I think you could've accepted that, too. What the SRS amendment refers to is point 3 in the first position of this member, where it is said – the residence is the place where the citizen is temporarily staying outside his place of residence for more than 90 days. The amendment, which we have submitted, requires that this deadline be changed and that the deadline be 60 days. Just before the beginning of the session, we received the government's opinion on the amendments submitted, which I also think is not correct and it had to be delivered significantly earlier, however, the government rejected this amendment. Look at the explanation. It says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the stated 90-day period outside of the place of residence is optimal. And who's to say that this is a handball? The government of the Republic of Serbia could not make a single argument in favour of this thesis that the deadline is optimal. It's an optimal 60-day deadline for us. You could say for any period that this deadline is optimal and if we accepted this explanation then you could refuse each of our amendments by saying – the amendment is rejected because the solution sent by the Government is optimal. Why is it optimal, no one knows, but if it is below that it is optimally signed by Mirko Cvetkovic, then it is optimal. I think that you and the entire National Assembly and all of us as MPs should be much more concerned about the dignity of the National Assembly. If it is prescribed that the Government must give its opinion on amendments submitted by MPs, then that means that this opinion is rational, that this opinion is meaningful, and that it is not just not because it is optimal. I'd like to ask Mr. Dacic, who's here now, to state for what reason it's optimal. You're still saying that the deadline is foresaw by other laws. For example, the Foreigning Law provides for this deadline in such a way that a stranger who intends to spend more than 90 days in the Republic of Serbia must obtain from the competent authority the approval for temporary stay. What does Mr Dacic have to do with the Law on Foreigners with the Law on residence and residence and what links and may the provision of Article 3 define the concept of residence with the Foreign Law and how much someone must implement in the Republic of Serbia in order to ask the competent authority for a temporary stay permit? How are these two legal solutions in college? They're not absolutely in any way and that's what's the point. So, you usually call on the EU, and in this case you couldn't, you are now referring to the Foreign Law, but that's something that absolutely doesn't matter, which is not in any amount of cohesion, and then to make up in the end you say, as stated in the definition of residence, the citizen is temporarily staying outside his place of residence for more than 90 days, which draws further legal obligations for him in terms of application and check-out. What does this have to do with my amendment? I'm asking you, Mr. Dacic, did you even read this argument, do you know who was giving the government's opinion, whether this was your opinion or whether it was signed by someone else because this was simply... Now I'm watching what it says. Here, it says Mirko Cvetkovic. Is this pointless because it was done by the prime minister who said he didn't read all the legal proposals so maybe he didn't understand this well, but I think that you as a minister who was in charge, or whose ministry is directly responsible for these matters and that as a minister who came before the MPs to defend this law, to try and convince us to vote for him, that you should have all the answers. So, regardless of all the nonsense you wrote in the explanation, I have stated in the amendment why this is done – because we believe that this deadline must be shorter. This member of the law continues to rely on Article 18(2) and Article 19 of the Law, and that is not the fruit of any will. The adoption of this amendment in any way will not make it difficult to implement this law, but will only improve it. If your goal is to pass a good law for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please accept this amendment or at least give a meaningful explanation why you do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62726	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Dear Members of Parliament, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf members of the University of Law Association in Kragujevac, who are today guests and hosts in their home, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The presence is: Rakita Pavle, Ivković Nikola, Tanovic Milan, Vukomanović Nikola, Bulatović Slobodan, Manić Nemanja, Erić Katarina, Živković Aleksandra, Pusulić Tijana, Radojić Snežanović, Pantić Ivana, Obradović Lazar, Popović Jovana, Makimović Andrijana, Mikić Sanja, Tesić Jelena, Pavović Milica, Panić Nevena, Blažić Predrag, Jevtic Momcilo, Petrović David, Trifunović Jovana, Jevtić Mila, Beločić Nikona, Žukanović Suzana, Rvović Milan, Ravović, Žarjana Žarjana Žažaž, Žarjanažanović, Žažana Žažanić, Miražina Žažić, Miražna Žažić, Miražić, Mira Žažić, Miraljić, Miražić, Dragažić, Miražović, Dragažić, Drag, Draga Ža Žažović, Dragažić, Draga Žaljkić, Miražažić, Miražić, Mir, Mir, Mir, Miražić, Draga Ža Žažić, Žažić, Miražak and Žažak and Žažić, Žažak, Žažić, Žažkić, Žavić, Žažk, Žavi, Žavi, Žavi, Žavi, Žavić, Žvić, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Ković, Žvić, Ković, Ković, Please welcome our guests to the gallery. Welcome to the National Assembly, to your house. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to take part in the debate on the amendment to article 3, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62727	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, I had a dilemma about whether or not I should vote for this amendment, and then the Proposer gave such an insufferable and scrupulous explanation and removed every dilemma from me. I'm not voting for this amendment. The promoter gave a very meaningful, reasonable explanation why this amendment should not be accepted. Everyone has the right to be angry with the legislator, and anyone can interpret that reluctant answer as they will, according to their abilities and potentials, according to their wishes and intentions to obstruct parliamentary work or wishes to point out here. But sometimes it is better when you get such a good explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you do not answer for a word, because, by reporting for the word and explaining this amendment, every dilemma is removed whether or not I should vote for it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62728	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, the amendment is under review and will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of this 6th Law, reads: "In the course of reporting and checking out of residence and reporting and checking out of residence, as well as reporting for temporary stay abroad and returning from abroad, citizens are obliged to give true information." As far as the duties of citizens are concerned, they provide true information about foreign stay and return from abroad, there are no dilemmas in this country. The problem is the first part of the sentence. He's slow, he's pretty confusing, too long, too wide, for no reason at all. That's why we submitted the amendment. In fact, in two places you put "logins and logouts" completely unnecessary. That's why we've submitted an amendment to delete the words "logins" and "logouts" in one place. I will read to you only the first part of the sentence, as written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and as proposed by the SRS. The government suggested this way: "In the course of reporting and checking out of residence and reporting and checking out of residence", twice the same word. This is how the SRS proposed: "When you log in and log out of your residence and residence", clearer, more precise, simpler, easier to read, easier for those who read the law, easier for those who interpret the law. The government is completely unnecessary from a simple sentence making an extended sentence, which is not precise, which is confusing, and I don't know for what reason, does the government just prescribe laws from abroad, translate them and so deliver them? I believe that those who write the law, who write the members of the law, must consider the circumstances for one who reads, that the member is extremely clear to him and as simple as possible. That is why I have proposed this amendment. I'm glad the government met and accepted this amendment. The fundamental amendment doesn't change anything at all. This member of the law will be clearer, simpler, more precise and far easier for both reading and interpreting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62730	Thank you. The amendment is under review because the Committee has not spoken, but in the day of voting, the Assembly decides, so you have the right to your two minutes, which you have used. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken out, so the amendment is under review, and it will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, joint MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although Mr Milivojevic is undoubtedly the most brilliant mind of the DS Group is not there, I will try to give some explanation that will not be offensive to him, but I will say once again that even on this article, as in the previous one, it can be seen that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to accept even those suggestions that are well-intentioned and even those arguments where it is absolutely clear that what you wrote in the bill is in line with common sense. In Article 13(1), the competent authority shall refuse to report a residence if it cannot be determined that the citizen intends to reside permanently at the address it reports. So, if a citizen is going to, how can the competent authority determine someone's intention? It's something that's impossible. I asked you that, and in the discussion of the previous one, will you hire any mind readers? Are you going to connect citizens who come to report their residence to a polygraph, to a lie detector? How can you judge anyone's intentions? You have no right, except for those documents prescribed by law to be sufficient to report a residence, you have no right to seek anything else. The law prescribes conditions for a person to report or log out his residence, residence, and anything else. The government's reasoning is certainly, I can say, more pointless than what I was talking about earlier. This is what they say - the amendment is not accepted because the decision, i.e. the decision of the Authority, can be made by appeal under the General Administrative Procedure Act. What does the complaint have to do with the fact that a counter officer at a police station, imagine me coming in, bringing in the necessary documents, bringing in a lease agreement, bringing in a personal ticket, and saying, "I bought an apartment, I want to report a residence, and I'm looking at a counter officer, who may have gotten up on the wrong foot that morning, or he ran off the bus and said, "It seems to me that you have no intention of living here?" So I guess I'll write a special statement or bring my priest or I don't know how to prove my intention? What is this way for a counter-officer to assess anyone's intention to live here? If this provision remains in the law, if you don't give this to God, you will only allow arbitration in action. You will allow different people and citizens to get different answers with the same documents. Whoever comes with the document to report the residence will be pleased with it, and whoever may be less likable, who is not young enough, is not handsome enough, is not educated enough, you will say to him – see, it seems to me that you have no intention of doing such a thing. Then he says further -- also, sublegal regulations will help to regulate the issue of the necessary contributions and documents that citizens should apply when reporting their residence. Then what do you need the law for, gentlemen dear? Then you could write that sublaws would determine how residence and residence were registered and which documents needed. You can't sublegal acts, you can edit the procedure itself, the administration, but you can't determine new legal conditions. Can the Underlaw Minister say – he will be able to report a residence with a ID card and an apartment-owned contract by someone who can jump two metres away, or have blue eyes, or have long legs? Of course he can't. What other document can you prescribe for your home registration? After all, even if you prescribe sublaws, the additional documents needed to report a residence, it has nothing to do with the intention. The intention is subjective. The document, any document, which may be submitted, shall be a document issued by the competent national authority. Any such document, that's a legal assumption, is based on certain facts. Facts are an objective category. The intention is something subjective. Don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. So even if you prescribe some additional terms and additional documents, the question remains, how are you going to evaluate anyone's intention? What is even worse in the 2nd position of that member is said – that the complaint against the decision of the authority which refuses the application of the residence does not delay the execution. It means that you will benefit from the legal option set out in Article 11 which gives authority to an officer of the police to voluntarily determine the address of the residence. Imagine coming in, buying an apartment, getting an apartment certificate, getting a ID card, coming to a counter clerk, he says – it seems to me that you have no intention of living in that apartment and according to the authority of Article 11 says – I will assign you a place of residence with your parents. What does that look like? You're talking about civil liberties and civil rights, and something like this couldn't happen at the time of communism. Answer Mr Dacic - you came here to communicate with the MPs. You didn't come here to stay an hour. So we're making remarks that can certainly say that they're justified. If you think they're not, get up and answer the word. Tell us that secret of how you will determine someone's intention. He can't do that anywhere. In certain cases, the court may establish a criminal act of someone's intention. But that's what judges who have completed college, who have certain years of work experience, are doing the whole court council, and that's the hardest part of the process. I worked in court. I'm very familiar with that. How do you think a police officer who has finished high school and who knows which education, whether he's finished high school or who knows what else, a high-end commercial, that he's assessing the intention of someone who comes with valid documents, prescribed by law, to say—you can't report a residence there? It's just not normal. This leads to self-will, this leads to arbitration, this leads to corruption, whenever you give any state authority the opportunity to voluntarily, therefore, not by law, but by self-evaluation of whom they will obey under the law based on a request, you open up a broad possibility of corruption. Because if he won't, you come to the counter, he doesn't like you the first time, the second time you come with a hundred, two hundred, three hundred, five hundred euros, I guess that's when you'll be nicer. But if you are already constantly talking about the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, and you know that you are at the top, not in Europe, not in the Balkans, but in the whole world, that our country is at the top of corruption of the administration, then don't continue to create systemic conditions for corruption. This is a system condition, you systematically create corruption. You eliminate this from the law, you eliminate the possibility that someone, based on free will, refuses to do what the law obliges him to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62732	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is seven minutes and 15 seconds. Does he want the word Vice President Vlad? Yeah. Just sign in, please. The word is Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62733	I understand the desire to explain the amendment, I just don't understand why so much heat, when you can talk about it nicely, and especially to me, since I come here to talk to you? I didn't come here to listen to you and not comment. After all, you have witnessed all these years that there are abuses in reporting and residence and residence, and you know who this applies to. So don't talk like that. You know we've had a problem with the false reporting of residences and residences, that 10-20 people are registered at one address. You know it's also connected to some parts of our country. So don't talk like that now, like you don't know what it's about. You know very well that there are the middle of our country, where Albanians from KIM apply, that they have a false residence in southern Serbia's territory, as well as in Belgrade. Do you want me to tell you how many reported Albanians are here in one address? You know we arrested cops for that. You know we've arrested people who give them permission to fake residence. If there are 10 or 20 people reported to one address, what is it, but it's fake? This is about giving the police the right to send a field check to determine whether it's true or not. Therefore, who has the right to draw conclusions on non-democratic methods, I think you're absolutely wrong about that. Also, I would like to remind you that Muslims who have moved to Turkey are now seeking mass citizenship and registering residence in the Rasko area. I'd like to ask you to take a moment to see when you're making amendments, and especially when you explain them, take care of them. This applies not only to Nemanja Sarovic, but also to where there is a national state interest, where the state behaves with the rules that exist in the democratic world. After all, when Albanians from Presevo came to protest with me because we don't let them change their residence just like that, and at that meeting was Dežer, I told them – here he is, from the European Commission, because they are asking us for visa liberalisation. Besides, you're all users of visa liberalisation. Therefore, in order to have this, there must be clear residence control, or residence. This is just about the fact that field checks determine whether or not that's true. Who has the right and who has the right documents, and when it comes to the obvious appearance when it compares whether or not there's real estate in that address, and if there's no real estate in the other address, there's no other suspicious stuff, of course no one's going to raise any questions. The state must have a mechanism to check it out. Then you come and say, "How is there no one at that address?" Now let's be realistic. How many people today have a place of residence and a place where you can't find them? So it's a fact that exists and we have to stop it. That's why it's defined in law like this. So don't worry, it won't be there and there aren't any arbitration issues. This is about the right of the competent state authority to react. If you want to listen to me at all, I hope you asked me because you want me to answer you, Mr. Sarovic. If you were talking about me answering your questions, then you should listen to what I'm saying, because I'm answering you. (Alexander Martinovic: I am guilty of ministers. I'm sorry. All right. There are no sanctions for that, of course. I'm kidding. I want to be clear here. Once again in the end, this is the right of the state authority that we previously had to define by regulation, which is that we have the right to refuse by field insight someone the right to enter a residence, or residence. On this basis we even took away passports because false residences and residences have been reported, and that is one institution we need, it has nothing to do with any other citizens who can exercise their rights without any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62734	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, you have the rights to the replica. Two minutes, then. You have to decide, either you have the right to a two-minute replica, or you are using the MP's time group. Then you only have two minutes at your disposal. [[Nemanja Sarovic: First as a replica.]] National MP Nemanja Sarovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62735	Mr. Dacic, at least I'm surprised by your answer, I'll tell you why. The first thing you're talking about is how Muslims who moved to Turkey are now looking for a place of residence and residence. So what? Are we a secular state? I'm surprised that you, as police minister, are assessing someone's request for whether he's Muslim, Orthodox, atheist or anything else. It's not your job to refuse someone's residence because they're Muslim. It's your job, if we're already talking about the Raška area, to arrest those who wave guns, which broadcasts all the news during a protest organised by Zukorlic, and there's nothing wrong with these people, it's your job. Your job is to arrest those who call for a boycott of the list. I was recently in the Raska area. They speak openly on TV "The Unity" to the New Market about the genocide that implemented Serbia over the Bosniak population in the Rasko area. (President: National MP, the replica you receive must have something to do with the response given to you by the first Deputy Prime Minister, so please use the replica. That's right about the relationship, I'm just at what he said. I'm moving on now. As for the possibility of the police checking someone out whether they're at the address or not, that possibility is given to the police by article 18. This has nothing to do with Article 13. I'm not saying that the police in accordance with Article 18 can't check if anyone's here, but you have to allow everyone to apply in accordance with the law. Go the same day, go the next day, make sure he's there, and then let him suffer certain consequences. You can't judge the intention because it's impossible and you can't deny it at the first moment that someone is applying. The Republic of Serbia is an increasingly poor country. The fact that he's living somewhere at 10, about 15, somewhere 20 people, is the result of a general misery that the state has fallen into for the past 11 years, and that kind of thing is growing. The fact that 10 or 15 people are going to live in an apartment, you have no legal basis to prevent it. There is no law that says - can live one man per square... (President: Two minutes, thank you. )......................................................................................................... Or he can live up to three squares.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62736	Anyone else want a word? The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62737	I'm glad the SRS is warning me of national equality. I absolutely accept what you're talking about, I'd just like to remind you. I wasn't talking about the nationality of anyone. I was talking about the false application of a false residence. In order for someone to exercise the right to, among other things, citizenship, they must report both residence or residence. This is about why the Turks are looking for our citizenship. Because they don't need visas. Bosniaks, those who have moved, to be precise, emigrants who once went to Turkey, who have lost their citizenship over time, are now interested in getting our citizenship back, which is not controversial. There's a commitment. It's not a questionable nationality. It is a dispute that we have a problem tomorrow, because someone from the European Commission will say – you are allowing false reporting of residences and residences. I guess we're all aware of that. That's the only reason. Besides, you know what it's like here with us, there's almost no way to report 10 to 20 people to one address, and that's how it really is. With all due respect, they're not Chinese or Japanese, they do that, rationally. I've never heard of such an example, that so many of our citizens should be registered at one address. Besides, let's not discuss it. I suggested what's in our national and state interest. If you don't understand it or you don't want to understand it, or for political reasons right now, you want to oppose it or you want to submit an amendment, I agree, I just answered you because the citizens know what it is. This isn't about any repression against citizens, but, you know, every democracy in the world has its limits, so here we must have a clear insight into where it is and where it is staying. After all, it is in all the documents that our country has towards international institutions and organisations, these are the obligations that we have made, which means that we are keeping an eye on the fact that we are preventing false applications of residence, residence, false admission to citizenship, etc. We'll stick to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62738	The People's MP Mirko Cikiriz has the word, so the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic and the MP of the people, Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62739	I think it is an opportunity to recall the importance of correct and accurate records and residences and residences of citizens, not only in the public interest which is very important, but also in the realization of many private interests. We are certainly based on the facts presented by Mr Dacic, who are indisputable, all witnesses that in the present state there have been many incorrect reports of residence and residence and many fictitious ones. The residence and residence are important for the exercise of rights, but also for the achievement of certain obligations. How many problems in the functioning of the rule of law, for example, when handing over subpoenas or calls for jail sentences, or in the procedure of executing a court obligation, were the fact that the person is falsely staying at a particular address, and even members of the household family do not know that the person is registered at that address. Not to talk about divorce cases or property disputes with foreign elements, when you see that another country whose citizen is in the process has much better regulated the application of residence and residence to our country. This is a law that will, in any case, improve the existing state. What I don't like either, I think this is what the minister was talking about, to settle the regulation as a sublegal act, because really this member, every legal norm has to be very clear, very precise and unequivocal. This can be interpreted in various ways. Mr. Sarovic, of course, interprets it in his own way and he looks at it from only one angle. Okay, that's probably politically motivated watching. But there shouldn't really be any policy here. There's no political interest here. I think that a really existing member provides opportunities for a variety of interpretations and that the regulation should first and foremost clarify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62740	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is byram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62741	I just wanted to get involved and say a few words about that kind of potential fear and national interest in the Raski area, whether someone gets citizenship or not. Remember, our intervention was then put into the law that if his ancestors lived in our territory and had citizenship, to gain the right and to determine it according to, not the origin of a nation, but the origin that he once lived in that territory, or that he was a citizen of this country. At the time, we had a debate that someone on the side would come, who would win citizenship, participate in the elections, and so on. Here, check the data, no one comes from Istanbul to vote here. Therefore, the minister said exactly, they are really interested, they are citizens from our neighborhoods, allowing them to make jobs in Western Europe, travel. It was one way to maybe draw that capital to our territory, since these citizens are currently investing in Bulgaria and Romania for more than five billion dollars. So we can't get into one thing, and that's that if that control goes on the ground, we have our citizens who live 20-30 years in London, Vienna, New York, and you can go into control 15 times and see that you'll never find a man there. We have an empty house in the province, so there's a man in Sandzak who builds a palace and for 2-3 years he doesn't come or in two years. You can check for three years. Do we want to take his citizenship? There's no man at that address. There we have to have one nuanced attitude which means checking, how many times we check, ask the neighbors if this guy shows up, doesn't appear, etc. Let me tell you something, in Western Europe you have a man within the EU to gain citizenship in the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, at three addresses he is registered and has the citizenship of three states. So I think that tomorrow and when we apply this standard, we need to be very precise and stick to the spirit of that norm, not to make sense that this check will save our national interest and that it will come to some of us who we didn't plan for or that we don't want them to come and live in our territory. I advocate that this standard is interpreted precisely and that in practice it does not receive any volunteer interpretations, that it is simply applied so that all those living in Istanbul, and under this law have acquired the right to citizenship, that they are banned from it. If that's the point, then we'll vote against this law. But I don't think so, so I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62742	It's been used for three minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP, from the time of the parliamentary group or the deputy president of the parliamentary group, what time should we count from? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62743	Mr. Omeragic, you may think what you would like to think, but I still think you must consider what the Deputy Prime Minister has told us. So he claims something else. I have to say, there are a few problems here. So, Mr. Dacic is now talking about some national interest, so he's talking about how the SRS has become the protector of national minorities. No, we didn't become, we stayed, with it having nothing to do with the fact that we expect every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, including members of national minorities, primarily to take care of the interest of the state in which they live. It's totally natural. But, Mr. Dacic, if it's a national interest, why didn't you write it in an explanation? Your argument differs entirely from the reasons for the refusal of the amendments made by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. There is also a question of communication between you as vice president, first vice president and minister of police with the finance minister and prime minister. That's what's the problem here. Who do we trust now? Should we trust Mirko Cvetkovic or trust you? Of course, we'll choose not to trust anyone. The other thing is, there's no such story, you say, that's what Mr. Chikiriz said that I'm looking at it politically. No, I haven't seen this politically, I've seen this strictly legal. I've seen this from a professional point of view. I didn't say - I like these in the Raska area, not in Sandzak, as Mr. Bajro says, or I like the Turks, and I don't like them. I said that the state authority, or police officer in any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, cannot have and must not have the authority to assess anyone's intention. He simply can't, because he's not qualified for it, he's not a psychiatrist, he's not a psychologist, he's not a judge, he can't have the authority to do that. It leads to self-will, to arbitrary work. So these are legal categories, not political ones. That's what the point is. Besides, if you want to do background checks, we're not against it, and we're gonna get there, and we're gonna get to article 18. No one will take away any citizenship unless they find it at home, but that article 18, which was also submitted to the SRS amendment, needs to be better defined. We have submitted an amendment to improve that member of the law. But for the second time, I'm telling you, don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. Do not interfere with the authority of police officers to go to someone's address and determine whether they live here or not. And that 50 people have been reported to one address, theoretically, you have no right fifty first to say – you have no intention of living here. Maybe none of those first 50 don't live, and he's gonna live. You still don't have the option, you don't have the means to determine anyone's intention in an objective way, to make it verifiable. What kind of data is someone going to give? You say - appeal is allowed to the administrative court. What document will be submitted by one who feels that his right has been violated by not being given a solution to the residence application? Will he take out his brain and say, "Here, attach it to some apparatus, and see what my intention is?" Will they sign an oath in a church, like those sitting here stealing the mandates, and forget it? So that's not good enough. It must be brought to mind by what is objective, something based on fact, not on the goodwill of any police officer. You can defend visa liberalisation, but visa liberalisation did not bring good to Serbian citizens, especially when we know what price we paid for it. There are now far fewer people travelling abroad than there were before visa liberalisation. That's what the fact is. You've betrayed over three million new passports. Now you have a situation in the country that twice as many people have passports as a new ID card. Is that a normal state in a particular state? Of course not. You took, at the very least, huge money for it, because Serbian citizens ran to give 2-3 thousand dinars to have some kind of passport, but you failed the promises you made about the economic situation in the country. It doesn't matter if anyone has a passport. As long as there was money, it was traveling. It's a free passport now that no one has any money left and there's no way in the country to travel. That's what the point is. So, don't swear beyond the EU, not beyond visa liberalisation, this has nothing to do with visa liberalisation. I don't know what these European values are. Is it European value to evaluate someone's intention or value that if there are valid documents, which require the law to enable them to report their residence, then go to that address the next day, determine that they are not there and apply the sanctions in accordance with the law? It's never been a problem for us that we didn't have good laws. We have, too, Mr. Dacic, good laws, the problem is these laws don't apply. Although we're wasting our time now and we're passing some law, I'm not saying that perhaps in some elements this law was no better than it was, but let it be as it should be, so we don't meet again here in a year or two days. Not tomorrow, when someone else is a minister, that he has to work again to correct what you're wrong with right now. So let's get back to Article 13. We'll talk about all the other members later. A police officer cannot have the authority to assess someone's intention. Let go of the EU, let go of the Turks, let go of everyone else. Do you have any argument that you stand up to it and say that a counterman in a police station has a crystal ball and will use it to assess the intention either it's psychic or anyone will use a lie detector? So these are arguments that we are interested in strictly for Article 13. When we get to the other members, we'll talk further.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62744	Six minutes and 35 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Mirko Cikiriz, and the People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62745	Now I will be very clear and I think that my discussion will be between what Mr. Sarovic said and what Mr. Dacic said, in order, of course, to come up with the best solution. The explanation given by the minister is acceptable, but it is not visible from this member. The legal explanation given by Mr. Sarovic is also acceptable. It leaves the possibility of a worker on the counter to voluntarily determine whether or not they will allow someone to register their residence. What the minister said is not seen from this standard. It's perfectly okay for the police to run a background check in case there's a suspicion, so the amendment submitted to this member seems to be more specific. The amendment says the police administration refuses to report to the residence if in a reliable manner in the prescribed procedure it is determined that the citizen does not live or has no intention of living permanently at the address. The process is even predicted here, what the minister was talking about, the police come out, check, find out otherwise, etc. I don't think there's any reason not to find some solution that's best for everyone. I think it would be both in the interests of the state and in the interests of the citizens. I haven't constructed Mr. Sarovic's legal opinion, I've constructed what comes out of the domain of law, and it enters the domain of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62746	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62747	On behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I would like to join in this debate very briefly. So, this law that treats the issue of residence and residence is very necessary, because every regulated state must have a clear record of its citizens, where they reside or live at a certain point, and with more aspects, this is important. So, we have these several problems that have arisen in the past, that we have an unregulated substance, that maybe some legal norms in the current or previous laws have been overcome, we have various tendencies that arise for different reasons, so we have the appearance of a fictional number of people who live or reside in certain areas, and then, based on this fictitious status, they have certain rights for themselves, but by achieving these rights, they actually bring the state into a certain position, and even at certain times, it leaves certain consequences, which have long-term consequences in some direction. When the election time comes, we have a fictitious vote of such citizens who have just found themselves there to mistake at some point a number of votes for a particular option that projects the next day a particular policy that may have other intentions, which is not in line with what needs to be a comprehensive interest. We have to say that there are citizens in our country, whether they are members of national minorities or others, that they consider themselves residents of this country, that they are in their own home, and that we have certain groups that act as temporary tenants with some other goals, etc. We also have some other aspect that we have to look at here – how these issues are regulated in some other countries, whether this is in a sufficiently liberal way, how we may be advocating or considering in the spirit of what democracy is, for example, in the United States or in some other Western European countries, it is only possible to obtain the status of residence or stay in their countries, in their cities and in some other parts of their country, and on this basis to exercise certain rights that satisfy some ad hoc needs and yet leave consequences for that country in one unfavourable direction. So I don't understand this norm that this is about, that it is such that the state authorities are now judging, and that the party that has sought its right has no other mechanism to solve it. There is a procedure to address this issue, and in another step it can prove and exercise its right. In any case, we believe that checking and the existence of certain mechanisms by state authorities are absolutely legitimate mechanisms that must exist and state, through their state authorities and certain procedures, must have the possibility of controlling all of this. So, democracy, which we often use in one radical way, is absolutely one way to check everything and control it more perfectly, and in such a context that citizens exercise their rights. After all, if we have any objections to the law that has been in force so far or to the laws that were once in this matter, this is an attempt to correct certain things, to correct them in the interest of a better arrangement, which is in the interest of both the state and the citizens themselves. If these standards are not good or not perfect, the practice will show very quickly, so again on the agenda we can have changes and additions that will fix all of this, to make it even better, I repeat, in the interests of the citizens, but certainly also the state that has to take care of itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62748	Six minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want to take the floor on Amendment 13? First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62749	In the end, I'm just going to do a little résumé. So this has absolutely nothing to do with basic human rights and freedoms. This is not about a person on a police station counter making a decision, it's about a competent authority that needs to make a decision based on a procedure that needs to be conducted, which is the so-called procedure. "terrestrial control." I'd also like to remind you of what Bajro was just talking about, so it's all true and there's no reason why, we're not challenging anyone's right to seek citizenship at all and it's defined by law. Here we have only constant pressure from the European Commission, which is constantly defining, which resents the fact that it has false residences and residences and interprets it as, so to speak, the failure to fulfil our obligations under visa liberalisation and comments as tendencies and they have a negative view that we are at all allowing someone to have dual citizenship or that they can report residence or residence. The whole problem has arisen, as you know, with Albanians with KIM, who are transferring residence from the KIM area to central Serbia so that they can achieve visa liberalisation, because citizens' passports from KIM are not subject to visa liberalisation and false applications have occurred in this respect. That's what our citizens gave them. That's what our police officers gave them. We arrested the men on that occasion. In some areas, even municipal officials reported to their addresses by a dozen, twenty people with kiM. To be exact now, it's just that the state has to have the right to in one procedure that's properly regulated by someone refuses to enter a residence. This is about a change of residence. In case, until this procedure is completed if it is conducted, it remains an old residence. No one's been damaged that they're about to lose their residence. It's just something we have to do. When it comes to passports and ID cards, let me just say that so far, some 3,600,000 new passports have been issued, and about 3,300,000 new ID cards have been issued. When it comes to visa liberalisation, I don't think it's a subject that we need to debate because it may be the only concrete and good thing that Serbian citizens could feel from European integration all these years. It is not a topic to talk about, because it is certain that if Serbian citizens do not criticise anything, I am sure they are not criticising visa liberalisation, because who will criticise it can travel without a visa. Don't get involved now whether he can travel or not, it's not the MUP, whether he has economic opportunities or not, I'm talking about these issues that are responsible for the MUP. I invite you not to make a big drama around this member because there is no reason for that. This is primarily motivated by this, so far we have not had the practical right to challenge anyone, whoever comes and says – we ask, to be honest, there are also great abuses by the police, by other state authorities that have allowed such false reporting. That's why, in order to have complete control of it, this possibility has been left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62750	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word, so MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62751	Mr. Dacic, I really didn't intend to answer any more. The right to tell you, after Mr Chikiriz's discussion with the DS and the SPS gentleman, when you came forward after they praised the amendment submitted by the SRS, when you came forward, I hoped it was because of it, and that you would say that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia you accepted this amendment. Instead, you've given some sort of explanation that I really can't accept. So, you're now saying it's not about a counter-officer, I'm going to quote you, write you down to be precise "but rather about the competent authority refusing to report residence based on a procedure to be conducted, i.e. field checks". It's just a counter-officer. There's no other procedure. When a residence is reported, it's not for you to come, file an application, and then someone decides on some kind of deadline, there are bigger old people who will decide. It's a competent authority. The competent authority always comes down to a natural person, an individual who makes a decision. The objective of the amendment is to eliminate subjectivity in the decision-making process, to base the decision on objective facts. You say – additional documents will be prescribed, but the documents are objective facts again. The intention isn't, it's the only thing that's controversial. No one disputes the police's right to do a field check, but there's no such thing as a previous field check. Then why didn't you prescribe it in the law and say, "The police have the right to carry out a preliminary field check?" Then within seven days, three days, 24 hours determine whether someone is at the address or not. Otherwise, you're just left with this ex post field check. So, let someone check in, go in within 15 minutes, go back to his house the next day, go every day and find out if he's not here to suffer the consequences according to the law. That's the point, just to put an end to arbitration. In no way can the EU blame you for allowing someone to sign up, report their residence or residence. I guess that's the goal of the EU that I hope we'll never get into, which is more and more obvious and large numbers of citizens. That there's a higher degree of human freedom, that's the point. Then you say - no one can criticise visa liberalisation. Okay, here I am against visa liberalisation. I'll tell you why. It's not true that I'm using it. I don't have a biometric passport, Mr. Dacic. I am against visa liberalisation because it is not positive for Serbian citizens, because visa liberalisation in Serbia established that there are citizens of the first and second order. Do you boast of visa liberalisation when you go to KIM? Is there a country in the world that has allowed such a relationship to its citizens? Of course not. That's the problem, that's the essence of the problem, because you've been giving in and out of the EU, that's why they have a relationship with us, that's why they're taking KIM away from us, that's why they attack people at barricades, that's what the point is. (President: National MP, now it is essential that you have an obligation to speak about the agenda. ) I am finishing Mrs. Komic, and DS representatives also spoke about aero pollution. So I'm talking about residence and residence at KIM. (President: No, MP, you are talking about the amendment to Article 13, which you have submitted, so I ask you that when I remind you that you are in violation of Rule 6 which obliges you to take it as my obligation under the Rules of Procedure to remind you to return to the agenda topic. ) Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I just want to make sure that this law and these guarantees are applied to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, to be in the Raška area, to be in Vojvodina, to be in Belgrade or Kragujevac, but also to be in KIM. Do we have a constitution? So now I'm just referring to the Constitution. Will the provision of Article 13, paragraph 13, apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? You just said -- it's not for Nemanja Sarovic, it's not for Belgrade. Unfortunately, it is. You are giving this legal opportunity to police administrations throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and this will be applied both in Belgrade and in Kragujevac, and in Nemanja Sarovic and on Ivica Dacic and Gordan Komic, to everyone. So you can't say – it's not this provision for one. Do not give possibility and create provisions that will be easily misused tomorrow. It's possible for political reasons that tomorrow someone will be prevented from signing up for these or those. I'm not against mechanisms that will sanction abuses, but you can't say, but this is a clone to abuse, so we won't let him sign up to not abuse. You have after the criminal order, have you seen the amounts. They are huge, are not at all applied to the situation in the Republic of Serbia, economic development, the economic standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When government officials abuse millions of people, they get misdemeanors with minimum sentences, and look for something as banal as they have lived and lived, when they take their skin off the backs of Serbian citizens, as they are. Don't really mix it up again. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's the third baby and the frogs. One option is to report and abuse it, which is sanctioned by criminal provisions, where you have the opportunity to prevent it and that member from doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62752	Six minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic has the word, so the MP Bajram Omeragic and MP Mirko Cikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62753	I just want to take the next one out for a little while. With all due respect to the rights of the SRS and to submit an amendment to defend it, to criticise from their point of view the solution given in this article, as well as other solutions when it comes to the SPS-JS parliamentary group when it comes to me, which I am talking about on behalf of it. I have to say, of course, we didn't agree with the attitude, the political attitudes, and the view of the SRS of this matter, because I was in principle trying to make a approach, in what it is to approve the government in the sense of not applying such standards in this law that will improve the mechanisms and we see it that way. Practice will show that there may be a need tomorrow to improve this law in certain provisions. In any case, we approve of the government's activity on what it is to perfecte and improve that legal norm and legislation in this area, because the state has to take care of its citizens about its territory and the mechanisms that will contribute to a single order that is in the interest of everyone. So we spoke in favour of what the government was trying to do in that direction, with the approval of all of it, not in the sense of some opposition view. Of course, everyone has the right to do that, it's a legitimate right for both you and everyone else, because if it wasn't for that, it would lose the meaning of this Parliament's existence and debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62754	Two minutes used by the MP's group. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62755	I wanted to say to the minister that, by analysing the situation with false asylum seekers, we have come to the conclusion that there is very little from this group of Sandzak citizens now on the territory of the Republic of Turkey, and they have citizenship, very few have sought asylum in Western Europe. Thus, that kind of right is not in any way misused. I'm taking the opportunity to say, another story that was told when we said whether these citizens are going to come mass to Serbia and Sandzak now, you know what, in Sandzak, unemployment is 50%, even people who live in Sandzak are looking for rescue in Western Europe, to get jobs, let alone someone else on the side to come. We cannot motivate foreign investors despite giving 10,000 euros for one job. Finally, I must say, since the representatives of the MUP we are working with are here and we communicate with many times, and when it comes to our citizens who have remained to live on the territory of Montenegro, they are seeking citizenship, and these citizens in the territory of Republika Srpska, the territory of the Republic of Turkey. I want to say that we have good co-operation with the administration at the MUP and I thank them for the co-operation and the good conditions they've created, that these citizens can come and achieve this right. Of course, these procedures can be a little longer. Let them be longer and be determined for everyone whether or not he has acquired the right to gain our citizenship, and we have always been in favour, if someone abuses, that it be analysed and that there is no abuse of such right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62756	Two minutes spent from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62757	I think on this article, this may be the most important member of this law. Therefore, Minister, in my first presentation, I suggested that at least a detailed procedure be regulated by the regulation, but it is much better to keep it in the law. As it is written, the possibility for various interpretations and various abuses is allowed, which I do not believe is your intention and in the legal part of the argument fully agrees with Mr Sarovic. You can't see from Article 13 what you're talking about. You can tell from the amendments. It can be seen from a regulation which will elaborate on this, such as a good member, article 18 in the case of residence and residence, where there is a suspicion that someone has been fictitiously reported at an address, and the competent authority shall carry out checks, etc. It did not mind that such a thing was also in Article 13, that the legal norm would be very clear, very precise, very concise and that citizens would know under which conditions they could automatically get their residence and why they could not get their residence immediately, but in the appeal procedure or after certain checks. The reasoning you gave orally is acceptable, but if we are to European principles, and clearly, if we are to respect human rights, and we are, then they must be unequivocally defined and not leave room for another interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62758	One minute and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, the MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62759	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, this amendment refers to a new chapter in the law, which is the application of the residence and this member of the 15th regulates in his position the 2nd length of the stay. You need to think about it and I will give you some of the reasons and arguments, which is why it is necessary for the length of your stay, from a maximum of one year to five years, because in the event that it stays this way in the legal proposal you gave us, it will cause a huge dissatisfaction among hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who, after the Ustasha actions in 1994 and 1995, had to leave their centuries-old hearths and settle here in Serbia, and also with Serbs who, officially, are led by the state as displaced persons, who cannot live because of the Shiptar terror in our southern province of KIM. Now if you look, and I assume that the co-operation of the Ministry of Interior and the Commissioner for Refugees in Serbia, at least at some level, is envious or whatever, you have to cooperate. You have, I will speak only in Kragujevac and in Šumadia, what I know. In Raca, you know that there is a Karadjordjev home and that refugees, i.e. displaced persons from KIM who have been staying there for 11 years, have been since the occupation began and that NATO villains have come to KIM. You have refugee camp Trmbas, also near Kragujevac, as well as in Bresnica. Mrs. Radeta, a few years ago, along with our colleagues, visited most of these refugee centres, among other things at the Mataruska Banja, and these people, Mr. Dacic, because they no longer have and can't return to their homes, and the poor, they barely survive some of the poor donations they have or do, something they sell and you see for themselves, is now an ever-increasing TV show about those people who have been Ustasha and the enemies of the Serbian people, have six, seven children each, or our Serbs with KIM. Every year, if this stays like this, they have to report their residence. Well, isn't it enough for them to suffer or not just be in those centers, but they're like tenants in some houses, some rooms? They haven't moved from there in years. We cannot, as you, or the Serbian Government, have given reasons for refusing this amendment and a better solution, to be the longest for five years, so the competent authority, or the police administration, will determine what is going on, not only with them, but at all, if someone reports that residence, and not at that address, because it was regulated by the members before that, and we talked a lot about it and in the principle debate. But this, and not only because of those faces, but also because of the fact that because of the ruined, satanized economy in our country, that statistics say, several hundred people moved to Belgrade during the month and they now have their place. Why are they coming here? They're leaving. Now, you go to Black Trev, there's 1,800 of them registered to the Black Grass Community, and when you look there, I don't know if there are 500 people living. It's the same when it comes to Serbs in Tutin. There are 600 or something or 800 reported there, but there's really not that many. There's not even 300 of them. They found their place of residence somewhere where they found salvation for themselves and their family. Imagine now if the management of the M.O.P. unit isn't up-to-date in every city, and it usually happens that it isn't, these people should be harassed every year because they're running out of time... Well, imagine, he doesn't know where his head is in this mess, the hoarding, the inability to survive, he can't pay the bills, he can't train the kids, and now he has to go and say, I'm still here, in that same address. So, the MUP has to deal with those, and we've already talked about it, and you said you had these mechanisms, and it's nothing new. You remember in 1999, when such an action was carried out, when the government, we were then in the coalition, Mr. Dacic, in the same government, when the M.P. tried to get through that action that was the widest possible, so all the O.D.s attacked us, so this Sonja Licht, so all those who work for the CIA, M-6, who then began to do before this five-octobaric coup here. So, it's systematic then. It's nothing new. These are not some European standards. There, that power in the country that was under sanctions tried to do it. It's a long-term process and a job and that's what every country is going to do. I cannot accept that the same status is now in place when it comes to the length of the stay of the party, as it is given in the explanation of these international conventions and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing, Mr Dacic, you were, it is nice and commendable, twenty days ago in Republika Srpska in the context of strengthening the special parallel relations we have with the Western Serb republic. You've met with both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Ministry of Interior. You know how many of our compatriots from Republika Srpska, former BiH who also have here, some have not received citizenship, their place of residence, so they don't change it every year and so it would be most logical to accept this amendment and say nicely – for the longest time in five years. This is the only way we are helping the citizens of Serbia. The fact that there are various abuses, which we don't know and the question is how much you can follow, whether foreigners who come to the Republic of Serbia violate the provisions of the Foreign Law, would be very interesting to me, because here, under the influence of some different NGOs, agents do and do whatever they want. They usually co-operate with that traitor, Nikolic, who runs both at the US Embassy and everything else, and when you mentioned that someone was committing this abuse, here, remembers Mrs. Comic, Tomislav Nikolic was before he started robbing his own party he betrayed and stole these 56 million and being paid by tycoons. He also robbed the National Assembly. He was registered in Belgrade in 2002, and charged travel expenses as if he lived in Kragujevac, and has an official apartment here. Afterwards, his apartment was small, so now he has this one of 800,000 euros. What our people would say – there may be a Miskovic, Beko Kesa, but these are cases of such wicked people, but these honorable people and those who have been forced to flee from Ustasha knife, from the Shiptar terror, must change this and have the opportunity to be the longest for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62760	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken, and the National Assembly will declare this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, of these frauds by Tomislav Nikolic, which Natasa Jovanovic spoke of, are not unique to Serbian citizens. For the majority of Serbian citizens, this law may not be necessary, but immediately to be understood, we are not generally against the law, we would all report a place of residence, a possible place of residence and there would be nothing controversial, however, residence and residence are two extremely important categories that are related to each individual. Based on these facts, a large number of Serbian citizens are in a position to achieve some benefits compared to others. If something is characteristic of a local self-government relative to someone else, they can exercise such rights. Then, on the basis of the place of residence or residence, judicial jurisdiction and the fact that they are established and under the law are also very important on the keeping of an account where there is a place of residence or residence. As soon as the state became a little modern, it was taken care of. When this law arrived in the congregation procedure, we thought that you were going to solve some problems seriously, and then we waited for article 18 and we saw that there were certain gaps. I deeply believe that Mrs Kasalica and Mr Todorovic will probably provide further information to Mr Dacic that this amendment should be accepted. Namely, there are certain things that can be raised, so now whether the place of residence is reached after 90 days, that is, the obligation to apply after 90 days, or perhaps what Mr Sarovic pointed out in his discussion about some amendments, perhaps even after 60 days, and even if that deadline was cut after 30 days, it could be something that is controversial, something that can be discussed. It was solved with a longer or possibly shorter deadline, but this applies to the amendment to Article 18 that I submitted, it was very important for us to accept, if anything, at least because of the piety of the deceased. We support and we can understand that Article 18 proposes updating from the field of acquisition or registration of a place of residence or residence. Previous members have regulated how and how this occurs, which are the obligations of Serbian citizens and then what are the obligations of state authorities, or before all the interior ministries. Then, since there is a possibility, and it has been seen to exist and intend to abuse this, the state had to intervene in one other way, that is, in front of all the MUPs. Article 18(1) said that the court, either any other state body or perhaps a natural or legal person, may raise doubts about the place of residence or residence for a particular person, as it may also be that a natural person has an interest in proving that a person does not have a place of residence or residence exactly where he officially has a place of residence in relation to the application. And then, on the basis of such a request, the State Authority, or the Ministry of State, can initiate the procedure and lead to the passiveisation of such a situation. If the MUP has decided on such a thing, then that solution to the residence or residence is establishing a commitment for a citizen of Serbia or a person who has citizenship in Serbia and is presumed to be alive, certainly, has an obligation to report within eight days of the place of residence or residence. What happens if it doesn't want to do it? It was said that Article 4 of the 18th draft law would then give rise to the Authority or the MUP, in accordance with Article 11(2). Bill of laws, regulate and solve that part. He's leaving the possibility of a complaint again. So there's a series of variants and nuances here and it's wrong and the possible mistake is removed. Then finally comes the position of the sixth member where one was actually made, I would say, and a morbid suggestion to do so. But counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic is not here right now, and he says we should pass a law like this and let's let it go a little bit, see what the practice says, so if the practice fails, we will approach the changes. Here, we're proposing a change right now because we're sure this isn't really good. We think we should accept this. It is said: "The competent authority will, under official duty, passiveise the address of the residence or residence in case of termination of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia". All right. But this adds "or the death of a citizen". How can you pass on the place of residence or residence to someone who has passed away? There's no need to passiveize anything at all. If you think again about this amendment, I think you'll accept it, because it's pointless to keep it like this. Still, someone's going to read this and they're going to cause a lot of trouble. Mr Dacicu, don't have the illusion that after the adoption of this law, with or without the amendments adopted, many of the problems that arise from this area will be solved by this law. He won't. Some people, I'm not talking about those who move to certain areas to commit criminal acts, in order to organise an attack on an individual or the state of Serbia in general, I'm talking about those who because of many unresolved problems that this government has not been able to solve, some, I must say, and those who have been inherited from earlier, are physically not reporting the place of residence or residence in some other places because of schooling, treatment, because of the possibility of employment, because of the possibility of enrolment in high schools and colleges and therefore registering the place of residence without really staying or not staying there. It's necessary to include a complete system here, complete, I'd say, the state administration and the government to solve these problems. They have accumulated and there will always be a desire or need to provide certain privileges, such as Belgrade offers compared to Baja's Garden, Krupanj, Ljubovija or other places, without talking about Black Grass. It is not possible to resolve this through this law, but good behaviour on domestic policy-making, taking care of its citizens is possible to solve these problems. Mr. Minister, in this home, and also in public, there was a problem that was characteristic of a particular locality where I came from. You've probably heard, so perhaps as part of the need to respond to these arguments that I've made, about accepting this amendment, you might as well shed some light on that in some way. In Banja Koviljaca, there is a big problem with asylum seekers, and this is both the position and the opposition and the citizens' talk. You've heard of the problems that have arisen, that a woman who has English citizenship has been raped, it's off the record that there is one murder between the members of the people who are here, who are asylum seekers. This problem should be resolved much more seriously and much faster, while the problems have not accumulated yet, and they will later be harder and more difficult to solve. I urge you once again, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment from the SRS. He will certainly remove some ambiguities, in fact one injustice toward those who have passed away and one great senselessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62762	Six minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62763	The Serbian Radical Party, Mr Dacic, has submitted two amendments to this Article 18. You will see that this is fully in line with what we discussed on the previous article, which was quite a debate, Article 13. In article 18, you define the concept of passive residence and residence. The first amendment was submitted by Mr Petar Jojic and what is extremely interesting, it is wanted, it says – if it finds that the citizen does not live in the address at which he has registered residence, then it will be passived. We have asked for a time limit to be set there and to say that if the police determine that a citizen does not live in a specific address for more than 60 days, then his residence or residence can be passiveized. Otherwise, there is a great possibility of abuse. The police can't go out on the field once, knock on somebody's door, and maybe he's at work, maybe on his way, maybe anywhere else, and from that one tour to find out that he's no longer living in that address, to make a decision about pascising or to give him some other residence. So, there's got to be a time limit. There's nothing in your proposal. The team's more surprised by your explanation. You said you did not accept this amendment for the same reasons why the amendment to Article 3 is not accepted and in that explanation you say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the stated 90-day period outside of the place of residence is optimal. If the 90-day deadline is optimal, we're looking for a 60-year deadline, and you don't have any in the bill. You're just saying, if the police find out that the citizen doesn't live. There's no deadline, no 90-day deadline, no 60-day deadline, no other one. It is obvious that the person who gave the reasons absolutely does not understand what he was talking about and what he was giving his opinion and did not realize what this amendment meant. So, some kind of minimum deadline has to be set. Let it be seven days, to say that in the past seven days he does not live and the residence is passive. You can't come once, not find someone home and say he doesn't live here anymore and bring the solution. In doing so, the appeal does not delay execution. This raises an objective question – how will you bring someone you find not living in an address, because here he says to take effect within eight days of the day of receiving a solution? How are you going to get someone who doesn't live at some address, who's been reported here, who's moved, who's gone in an unknown direction, how do you plan on giving him that solution? That's gonna be really hard. The second thing, in the last position the amendment was filed by Mr. Sreto Peric, is that the competent authority will, by official duty, passiveise the address in case of termination of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia or the death of a citizen. You can't pass when someone dies. That person no longer exists. A physical face means someone's alive. The deceased person cannot pass the residence. A dead man doesn't have a place to stay or a place to stay, there's no man, there's remains. He's a man until the moment he's alive. You cannot set a place and a place for the remains of the dead. Or are you going to introduce an obligation to report to the cemetery where who is who? The explanation you gave for not accepting is extremely unwise. You say: "It is not accepted." I guess the amendment makes it impossible to update the database regularly, which is absolutely not true. So they're going to sign up for whoever dies, that he died, and there's no change in that previous residence anymore, but there's no passiveity either. Second, you say, they have fulfilled certain obligations, both by birth and by the end of life, so what difference does it make? Is Liam in the way of anything here? Of course you don't mind. We do not claim that there will be no change, but we claim that there can be no residence of a dead person, that it cannot be passiveized. In Article 3 where you define the terms of this law, you say – passiveization of the address and labelling of the records of the competent authority, that the citizen does not reside in the address of the registered residence or residence. Supposedly, it's a legal assumption-- if someone's dead, they won't live in that address anymore. The moment you marked that a person had passed away, on official duty, based on a copy of the death certificate, you solved the problem. Is it necessary to further indicate that the deceased person cannot change his residence? You say here – it prevents this member from misusing the reported residence of the deceased. And what is this, please, possible abuse? What is this possible abuse with the whereabouts of the deceased? The moment he died, he died. No more new solution, no more changing the whereabouts of the deceased person, because it no longer exists. So, by the time a man is alive, you can talk about a citizen, the moment someone dies, you can't anymore. So these amendments don't touch the law in any part, and in law itself, essentially. We're trying to throw out those provisions that go with common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62764	Five minutes and 55 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group, noting that the MP who took part in the debate had previously been the MP Sreto Peric and the applicant of the amendment, so that 4 minutes were spent. My slip wasn't given the total time, two minutes on the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62765	So, Mr Dacic, this amendment that we have submitted and which is in accordance with Article 3 and Article 18(2) and Article 19, we are asking that a deadline be set for the application of residence, for the application of residence, for the application of permanent eviction abroad. We believe that this deadline should be shorter than what you suggested in the law. You say you want to be effective. You should have, and unfortunately, you haven't applied to any other laws, first of all, the Criminal and some others that regulate civil matter. It is very important that there is no possibility of avoiding false reporting and everything else. I suppose it's clear to you that this possibility will be much less, if that deadline is reduced and if it's 60, instead of 90 days. The explanation you gave, you say - the amendment is not accepted because the residence is taken as a citizen temporarily staying outside his place of residence for more than 90 days. What does that mean? We're asking that deadline to be 60 days. You haven't given a single reason why it's better to be 90 instead of 60 days. You say then – it is up to the citizen to decide whether he will stay for more than 90 days abroad or outside his place of residence. Did we ask the law to regulate that it couldn't? Of course not. We just asked that deadline to be 60 days. In the end, something that is most pointless, you say that the deadline is foreseen in the same way in the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community, a facilitated visa procedure, where a 90-day deadline is foreseen as the closest time limit for our citizens to stay on EU territory without visas, within 180 days. What does staying abroad have to do with staying in Serbia and staying in Serbia have to do with it? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. Nothing changes for you in terms of residence in Serbia. With regard to the passiveity of the address, nothing is changed. As far as reporting stays, nothing changes. No one can stay in the EU at the same time, and have some residence or residence temporarily in Serbia. These two things, you refer to laws and regulations of law and agreement, which absolutely have nothing to do with this. Mr. Dacic, I suggest you go back a little bit and focus on the discussion, instead of having a pleasant chat with your associates here and try to make these arguments regarding the laws, the law, and the law that you're entitled to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62766	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are a member of the 24th. The proposal for this law also provides for a record of residence, residence and temporary stay abroad. The SRS responded to point 1. Proposal for this law, i.e. Article 24. Just to remind you, the position of Article 24(1) provides that the residence records, residences and temporary stay abroad shall be kept by the MUP in electronic form. I've asked my name to cover the record and the case of a permanent stay abroad. Namely, this is a case that is directly linked to Article 14. A bill of this law. Article 14, I'll remind you, regulates the issue of a residence checkout. Article 14 states that a citizen is required to check out his residence if he moves out of Serbia. He, therefore, is filling out that statement of residence and in that statement in the residence logout, clearly notes that he wants to move out of the Republic of Serbia and wants to go to another country. The very act of this check-out of residence in case someone is moving out of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, implies his clear defined will, to move out of the country permanently and to intend to move into the country to have his permanent residence. That's exactly what we asked for with the amendment. In an explanation for not accepting the amendments, the government says it is not known by the proposal for this law to the Institute of Permanent Residence. Right, that's exactly what we've come to realize by submitting this amendment. We have just come to realize that you do not know the proposal of this law to the Institute of Permanent stay abroad. That's exactly what we're looking for. I would understand that there is a reason for the government in terms of the essence of a permanent residence abroad, that possibly the Government gives one argument that it does not mean that someone wants to stay abroad permanently. An explanation saying that the law does not know the Institute of Permanent stay abroad, in my opinion, is not good enough, and I believe that you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62768	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62769	We have submitted an amendment to Article 25(4) where we asked that the word "separate" be added in front of the word "distant". We wanted to make sure that this applies to individuals. However, the government's reply states that they use the terminology of another law dealing with the protection of personal data and that there is no such term as "separate". It doesn't matter that there's no "separate data" in there, it's important that we want to specify this data. Now let's get back to the concept of this law. I think this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, because Article 1 and Article 2 of this law don't talk to each other. This should be, first of all, technical regulations. But these pro-European geniuses, you know what they did? They say there's also a right to residence. I don't know what the right to stay would be. There is no such right. There is a right to citizenship, but there is no right to residence. The residence and residence are simply technical categories of recording a place where a man fills his life activities. They have made the dwelling a right to a place of residence. If something's right, then under certain conditions it's acquired, under some conditions it's lost. Under what conditions is the right to residence lost? There's not one word. It's a terrible thing. I don't know who fooled them from the EU, but they, however, swallow anything that comes from the EU, so they would swallow this. Furthermore, the citizen is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Then we're talking about registering the place of life activities of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What have they defined as a residence here? They've given three variations, with the third version not talking to the first variant. The residence is the place, then the place where he settled. He's settled in twice. This passive address is a special matter. We knew about writing and deleting from the records, and this passiveization for the dead and for those who lost their citizenship, I don't know where they could find it. If you put it in context with Article 18, then, respected citizens, you will have this situation, especially you pensioners who spend the summer in the homeland and spend the winter in an apartment. If the summer police arrive, they may conclude that you do not live here even though for 20 years you are going to work your fatherland or spend some time at the cottage, because in order to justify this new pro-European law, in the spring when you go to the cottage, you have to stop by the municipality where your village is to report your residence. If you do not log in, you are passive. In translation it means, you are frozen. You don't know where you are. Now we will have a situation – you do not know where you are – from the point of view of this law, and from the point of view of the elections you will be invited to this address to report that you are voting on the territory of that place. If we look at Article 25, then the data on residence and residence can be made available to anyone, so that NGOs and debt eviction agencies can, all of them can make an insight, get the data officially, just enough to represent that they have some disputed relationship with you. Then the paper gets the information. Amazing things can happen. This law must be returned urgently to work because the right to residence does not exist. Article 1 says what regulates this law. The law regulates reporting, checking out and recording. If there were a right to residence, then it would be said in the first article – this law regulates the way in which the right to residence is exercised, and there is no such thing. Then we're surprised the agencies are getting the data. It would not surprise us, given KIM territory, they have now given data to EULEX, now they will give information to Thaci, if they can catastre, they can also ID cards and other records, because this is a condition for good neighbourly relations, it is a condition that they cultivate relations with the transitional ones, I call them temporary institutions, because the transitionals do not yet exist in KIM, because the International Court of Justice has said – a group of citizens have gathered and we have said independent Kosovo, so it turns out after the International Court of Justice's decision. I cannot understand that someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia is talking to a group of citizens who said we are independent. You can imagine what would happen if these records were elected by the EU order, which is the interest of Brussels, that it should break the spine of this people that resists these objections, because it wants to be free in its territory. So return the law, because the right to residence does not exist. You can't turn everything right. It's not the right to record. The obligation to register exists with the ministry, and there is no right. The citizen has the right to residence. That category doesn't exist. There is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and there is a place where this man lives. Whether it'll be a residence, a residence, that's a technical question. Here you forgot about another category – property rights. It is perfectly legal for a person to have more immovable property and while using one, the right of property means the right to use, manage and dispose, and you, through sequestering, in terms of records, forbid a man to visit his property. It's amazing stuff. What's this all about? If those who have abused their official position were to be arrested, 50, 60, or 150 registered at the same address, it is a matter of crime, not a question of residence and residence. I don't understand when someone defends himself against the SRS amendment with some story about some abuses, because then I don't understand whether they're boasting or complaining. We don't need to complain. Why don't you do your job according to the law? If the cops have broken, let them get away with certain consequences in accordance with the law. Now, because of the possibility of abuse, we introduce the right to residence. So do we have the right to stay? Come on in the next step right to breathe. Imagine, the address of the man whose citizenship of the Republic of Serbia has ceased and who has passed away is passive. Where could that brilliant mind come up with that? Passing the address is a temporary condition, until a man fulfils the obligation to report a new address or until the police give him a new address under official duty. How can you erase a man who has received another citizenship, and his property, for example, in Serbia? Do you know what this list was like, and this has to do with these things? The writers worked on maps, and there is no whole new settlement on the map on Chukarica, in Rakovica, where the mafia built apartments. You know what kind of discrepancies there will be after the list of police records, what percentage is there going to be a discrepancy? At a terrible percentage. Why? Because Serbia has incomparably more housing units than family households. Now it's supposed to be some kind of strictness training, because the state is in danger, and as a justification for strictness training, it can also be the passiveization of a dead person. Mr. Dacic, at least send a hot meal to these cops who are in the Warblers, who are guarding the cemetery. People can't go to the parastos of your police over there. The solution to the general interest in Kolubara has fallen before the administrative court, so you know. So there's no expropriation under the law right now. People hate each other out there, you know. People can't go to the parastos, and the whole process is in front of the administrative court stopped. Find a solution, aman. Don't be like in 2009, you've changed the Expropriation Act because of the people in Colubara. Changed the law and now doesn't need a lot number at all, it's enough Colubar just to write in his program. You know, this cemetery thing is a dead end, because somebody used up the money the government gave earlier. Now they're making noises to justify those random spent money. I don't think I know better what's going on out there than you are, you're the police minister, you have police around every corner. You can imagine when this data, as you wrote, gets a cop who works part-time at the Security Agency. Do you know that security agencies are now working as debt seekers, so they get a list from the bank and invite citizens? These records include residence and residence. They call and say if you don't pay for the war on Raiffeisen Bank or this protected Bank of Intects... (President: People's Parliament, I would still like to pray on the subject of the agenda. They're not calling the residence, they're calling the phone number. Please continue to adjust your argument according to the agenda theme. ) At the request of the bank, police provide information on the whereabouts of a particular person. These data are the address of the apartment, residence or residence. They give those data to the debt relief agency. (President: National MP, this is not the subject of this amendment, so I ask you on the agenda topic. ) Paragraph 4 speaks of the delivery of data on residence and residence, the fact that you have not read the bill does not justify you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62770	People's MP, I'm warning you now. I remind the MPs that they have strayed from the agenda theme and are violating Article 106 because I read every act that enters the procedure in the Assembly, because it is not possible otherwise to carry out the work of the chairman, in accordance with Article 27. So when I remind you that you're not speaking according to the agenda theme, I'm doing it with very good reasons, which can be determined by the insight into the stenogram. So, please, on the subject of the agenda. Do you want to continue? The Messenger of the People throws it away. Where can I go? You can always use knowledge, and you can't break the Rules of Procedure. You do not violate the Rules of Procedure and you can use your right, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure is to call freedom of speech, you cannot, because it obliges me and you not to allow it together during the session of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Krasic used eight minutes and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62771	One more thing I'd like to add, Mr. Dacic, you also mentioned Vincent Deger, negotiations with him, he was visiting on a show a few days ago saying an interesting thing. He said that he had reached an agreement with the Serbian government's negotiating team in the area of parent books, but that the agreement could not yet be published because there is a conflict between the agreement and the laws in force in the Republic of Serbia, so it is necessary to amend several laws first. This was one of the basic reasons why we asked to define here that when someone is given information that it can only be individual data, in fear that tomorrow you will give information to Eulex, which will give these data to the Shiptars further, or that you will give the EU that will do the same, or to your US friends, who are the main propagators of that independence of the southern Serbian province. So we want to make sure. The second thing, it's totally controversial here, you didn't define it well, whether these conditions set out in attitude 4. were set cumulatively or alternatively. So is it enough to meet one of those three conditions to get data or to get cumulative to get data you have to meet all three? If it was cumulative, then it had to be written differently, to stand in the bill. So instead of what you said, under the following conditions, if this is, if that's what you had to say, if they meet the following conditions, then instead of the law, they're the law. So, then, the second termology used to make the law accurate and that tomorrow would not be controversial when applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62772	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word, since the amendment is under review? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, and the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. The MP has two minutes to explain the amendments and, of course, the remaining time of the parliamentary group. National MP Mirko Munjic will have his word. Before I give my word to MP Mirko Munjic, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the SRS parliamentary group has authorized MP Nemko Sarovic to be an authorised representative on this agenda point. MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62773	I'm just going to say for the public that the 27th member has been regulated by criminal provisions. In order to make it easier for those who vote for this, given that the amendment is most likely to be accepted, I will say that I responded to the monetary amount provided for by the six points, which you provide for Article 27(1). You initially provided that it would be an amount of 30 to 150 000, in cases where it did not report residence within a period of time, unless it entered the residence within a period of time, if it did not report the residence and the address at which it resides within eight days, if it did not report a temporary stay abroad and if it did not put a record of the arrival and departure of the citizens, as provided for in Article 21(2) of this Act. I think it's a good thing you've realized that this amendment needs to be accepted, that it actually needs to reduce these fines, the fines from 30 to 10 grand and 150 to 50 grand, as I've just asked for an amendment. I'll just give you a few examples of what we thought was necessary. First because of the economic situation that Serbian citizens are in, because of the really difficult economic situation in which they are all in. I'll give an example from the surrounding area, from Luciano, where the trumpet assembly is held in Guca. You know it's necessary to put a police officer on record of the arrival and departure of citizens. But let me remind you, in that period, about 800,000 to millions of people get there and it's possible that someone might leave this out. Normally, in order not to be more expensive, they say, tepsia pie, if it doesn't report it to a police officer, it's appropriate to be punished, but that punishment is relatively less than originally foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62774	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62775	We just wanted to warn the promoter that something here is wrong with Article 29. He says this: "nationals of the former republics of the SFRY". Who are they? It is a category – it has a republican citizenship, and it has no federal citizenship. It doesn't exist with us anymore. The former SFRY expressed citizenship in two ways: SFRY and the republican membership. They were all Yugoslavs, etc. Who are they? If you mean the category of citizens from Republika Srpska, who did not sign the housekeeper, so they were expelled by the genocide policy of Franjo Tudjman in a coalition with Americans, Germans, Vatican, NATO pact, etc., then they are refugees here and have the right to seek citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. There is a need to achieve efficiency, that these people resolve their citizenship, because the intensity of the civilized world is that no person should be without citizenship. So, if you think of former Yugoslav citizens who have not in the meantime gained citizenship of an independent state of Croatia, an independent state of Slovenia, an independent state of Macedonia, an independent state of Montenegro, and have a residence in Serbia, that is one category and theirs, as you say, the right to residence must be regulated in accordance with Article 2, where it reads: "the citizen of the Republic of Serbia has a residence in Serbia". The talk here is about people who have a registered residence in Serbia. What did you add next? Since we discussed what this is, "the stateship of the former republics of the SFRY", "or the citizens of another state formed in the territory of the former SFRY". What other country was created in the territory of the former SFRY? Croatia? They're strangers. Slovenia? Foreigners. Montenegrins? Voluntary strangers. Macedonians? Foreigners. Or is this where you think of some new state being created in the territory of the former SFRY? What were you thinking? Is this in front of the "or" behind the "or" supposed to have the same meaning? Let me tell you, in this building, the termology was quite different. The newly created countries in the territories of the former SFRY – there is no more that formulation. Here you question citizenship, because you have tied your right to residence to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Are these synonyms in front of the "or" behind the "or"? The fact that you refused our amendment means this government has other intentions. Do you participate in the creation of a new state in the territory of the former SFRY and now in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Whom the snake burns, he's afraid of the lizard. Tadic said he would hire 200,000, so fire 450,000. The younger one said – 1,000 euros in free action, and then – I was joking. What exactly does this apply to? We are not talking about the second part of this article, the passiveization of the address from the moment he runs out of the importance of his ID card, etc. We're not talking about that part. Consider what it means in front of "or" what it means behind "or" what it means. Like this, standing both ways, that's impossible. If this is first in front of the "or" that stands, it should tell us that these are Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska, who will not accept a housewife for life, do not want Croatian citizenship, they are here, then their problem is that you need to solve, the problem of citizenship, not residence. You have an obligation, under the Law on Citizenship, to enable these people to gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. This isn't the Law of Citizenship. Then why did you put them there? If you look at this second behind "or has another state's citizenship created in the territory of the former SFRY", then it's a different situation. So, it has the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, the citizenship of Croatia, Macedonia, the citizenship of the barely welcomed independent Montenegro, though, now neither is Montenegro, but Montenegro, then explain. Then we're talking about strangers. As you wrote in Article 2 and Article 3 first, "The citizen is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The residence is the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The residence is the right citizen of the Republic of Serbia." This law does not communicate with you from member to member because you have invented a new right – right to residence, right to place. This is absolutely unacceptable, because we don't know what you're going to say, and we have reason to suspect you're making room for an independent state of Kosovo, since you're in pro-European parties, that Europe is in your soul. We also have one who was asked whether you are for the EU or for Kosovo," he says "don't, please, it's like asking me about two born children". The child of Nikolic is the EU, he is the EU's father. So it turns out, that's what the man said. "The EU, it's like asking me about Radomir, Kosovo, it's like asking me about Branislav." (President: Please, no direct communication. So this has to be discussed. He can't do both. Let me tell you one thing, if the first formulation in front of "or" refers to those who have only republican citizenship, and in the meantime have not received Serbian citizenship, and it is about refugees, expelled persons, then this member cannot be applied to them at all. If you delete the first four words and "or" from this article, then it is not clear why you write it at all, because the residence is the right citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as you wrote at the beginning of this law. The stay of strangers is regulated by another law. We're not talking about strangers on purpose. Other regulations exist for foreigners. Why are you putting a stranger in here now, like some sort of found-out state? It can't be like that. The law goes back to work, because there is no right to residence. This must only be a technical regulation, as recorded by the competent state authority of the home address, the place of residence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Very simple and simple. You can't go beyond that technical rule with this bill, because if you go outside the recording technique, then you get into the problem of citizenship, you enter a matter that can't regulate this law. You must not violate the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia with this law, you must not disabling something that has been recognised as human law by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is a regulation to record the will of a man, his will where he wants to live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is not a regulation that imposes – you have to live there. This is just a record, nothing more. You have made technical regulations for recording something that has come out of the framework that the Constitution allows. I hope I didn't overstep, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62776	Ten seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want the word People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62777	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not think this amendment should be accepted. The explanation is unlikely for the proposings, and let us not see the need to speak in this way about any part of the Republic of Serbia, because we do not intend to declare any resident of the Republic of Serbia as a foreigner in this country. After all, Boris Tadic did not say – if a NATO boot is screaming at KIM, I am pulling out of politics for life. That's what someone who was Deputy Prime Minister in 1999 said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62778	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62779	Mr. Milivojevic, we really don't know if you intend to make anyone a stranger, especially we don't know if that's what Boris Tadic is planning. You seem to be his spokeswoman, speaking for him. It really seems to me like it's quite the way it is. If you're already talking about Boris Tadic, then you must know one thing, that Boris Tadic was a foreigner in this country... (President: Please, on the subject of the agenda if you would like us to remain in common respect for the Rules of Procedure. ) Mrs. Komic, please listen, I am talking about residence and residence. (President: People's Parliament, when I interrupt you and warn you that you are in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you are required to listen. You have answered your word and have been told to speak on the subject of the agenda, i.e. the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. So together we will respect the Rules of Procedure, we will not break the Rules of Procedure together. Go on. ) Mrs. Comic, Article 29, I will read, says: "Citizens of the former republics of SFRY", I am talking about a specific case. Boris Tadic was a citizen of the former SFRY until that time, becoming a citizen of the Republic of Serbia the day before he submitted his candidacy for the president of the Republic of Serbia. He was, so this is exactly the member who's talking about it. Now I ask Mr. Dacic when he wrote this member of the law did he mean Boris Tadic? The most concrete question is possible, and Boris Tadic is also instigated by Mr Milivojevic. What I'm saying is completely legitimate. (President: National MP, it may be legitimate from your political point of view, but it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now for the second time I'm warning you, please, about the amendment that's under review. Just like we've done so far. Mr. Dacic, there was also a very serious debate in the principle debate in this law. At that time, Milan Markovic, who was then representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after a longer debate, I think we discussed at least half an hour, said he would accept this and would talk to you and suggest that you accept the amendment of the SRS, or accept the remarks that we have translated into the amendment and which has been submitted about you. In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you do not accept it. Now I ask you, did Mr. Markovic speak to you at all, do you know what the essence of the SRS objection is and are you in the mood and willing to remove our doubts? The essence of this story, just before we had a law relating to data giving, we openly expressed our suspicion that you wanted to give complete information to Eulex, KFOR, anyone else, UNMIK relating to the southern Serbian province of KIM and that you are doing with this law what Vensan Dežer said publicly, which is that you are creating legal frameworks to implement an agreement that you have reached on ID cards, parent books and everything else. (President: People's MP, I warn you one last time. The association of such a species that you are trying to connect to the agenda theme is absolutely impossible to connect. All your interest can be through parliamentary issues or through other forms, and now, for the last time, on the subject of the agenda. You leave me no space, unfortunately for me and for you, but for me to act on the obligation of a member in a different position, which is to give you measures of caution if you insist on violating article 106 and not talking about the subject of the agenda. Go on. ) Mrs. Comic, Article 29, I will read it again, says "Citizens of the former republics of the SFRY or citizens of another state formed in the territory of the former SFRY". So I'm asking the question of what state is it? If you say the former republics, you know what they are, Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, BiH and Montenegro. Is there anyone else? As far as I know, he's gone. There were six former republics, one of them is the state we live in, Serbia and for us, when we talk about the former republics there are those five. Then you say, "or the citizens of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY." It is perfectly legitimate to express fear that this provision of the law can apply tomorrow to an independent Kosovo. So neither did I speak a single word outside the law, Mrs. Comic, and you had no right to warn me. I talk about this all the time. In the government's explanation, something completely different is said. I asked Minister Dacic what he thought about it, and you warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62780	People's MP, you're required to listen to the chairman. I haven't warned you yet. Now, for the last time, I warn you not to deceive the public and not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I've made it very clear to you why I warn you every time I interrupt you and I told you that I didn't want to participate in a breach of the Rules of Procedure together and that I would not allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure, as I do not allow you to deceive the public and that you are saying that you have been given the measure of caution because it is not yet. National MP, you've used five minutes of the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62781	Mrs. Komic, I think you've injured Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and the powers that you have as chairman, when you said that I deceived the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62782	People's MP, the right that you now abuse is one of the most precious rights that MPs have. People's MP, you abuse the right of Article 103. It's my duty to express the warning measures. I give you my first warning about the abuse of rights that every MP in article 103 has. Given the stenogram of why I interrupted you and reminded you of the provisions, you can determine that I have the right and that at the moment you said that you had been warned, that you had been warned, that you were forced to interrupt you, that you did not deceive the public, and that you were false about the session and the course of the National Assembly. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62783	So, Mrs. Komic, all the time I've been trying to stay within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, as I've tried all along to talk exclusively about the subject of the agenda. I quoted a member of the law I'm talking about, tried to quote the argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when you interrupted me and gave me a warning. I just got back from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62784	People's MP, you're cheating on the public the second time, because you haven't been warned. You don't follow the course of the session, I'd like you to follow closely. So, as you explained the amendment, I interrupted you three times, and I interrupted you the last time by seeing the stenogram that I said you weren't cheating on the public because you weren't given a warning measure. So, I ask you to closely monitor the own exposures and interventions that I have been forced as chairman. A measure of caution has been given to you because of the abuse of Article 103 and because of your will to use your position politically, whatever you want, by abuse of the right to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In his view, Article 103 clearly states that the chairman is obliged to give the measure of warning to a MP who abuses the right to receive his word and to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the first sentence you used when you received the word on the basis of article 103, you said that I have no right to say that you are false, and by seeing the stenogram you will see that I am right, because I listen to you carefully. So, don't take part in the next warning measure together, any of your following will to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure obliges me to give you a second warning, take away the words, and finally exclude the session clearly and unequivocally to Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure which bind the chair. Does anyone else want a word by amendment to article 29 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic? People's MP, please sit down so as not to insist on the mess at the session. You cannot abuse a member who gives you his word in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Do you want a word on your amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic, do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62785	So, Mrs. Comic, I have a request for you, if you'd let me finish one sentence, that if you'd let me finish the sentence, believe me, we'd understand better. It wasn't even my intention...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62786	People's MP, you and I understand each other perfectly, you want the Rules of Procedure to violate, and I want the Rules of Procedure to apply. So please, Article 103, if you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, with respect to Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62787	Can I quote part of article 103?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62788	You can quote an entire member of 103 if you think it wasn't well written, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62789	Article 103 says - the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and directly injured. We consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I reported in culturally, not violating the order of the session and asked to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It goes on to say – which is directly from your side done, point 4. The Rules of Procedure - the MP is obliged to specify which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly (I have stated that this is Article 27, in my opinion, Mrs Komic) and to explain what this injury consists of with which he can speak for up to two minutes. The first moment, in the first sentence when I started to explain you interrupted me, that's the point... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62790	I will interrupt you now again, People's Messenger, for in that first sentence you have spoken falsely, and now if you want to continue to give me a measure, I am at your disposal. People's MP, you've told a lie and deceived the public, and that's why you're breaking up. So, do you want to talk about the amendment you submitted to Article 30? (Inemnja Sarovic: I want my remarks to be decided in the voting day. ) The remarks by MP Nemanja Sarovic will be decided by the Assembly on the day of the vote. Do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 30? Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62792	Mr. Dacic, I'm really going to do my best, and I hope that you will have a concentration after all this, to listen to my remarks, to Article 30. So this whole controversy and all the amendments of the SRS have a certain intensity. I'm sure you could see during this whole debate, as well as during the debate in principle, that none of our amendments have been submitted for any political or similar reason, all of the first to last amendments are meaningful and you could have accepted Mr. Dacic, a peaceful soul any of our amendments. No amendment would compromise the essence of the law, unfortunately I wasn't able to tell you everything I wanted to tell you. As far as this last amendment is concerned, it's about the residence of citizens. You say, and the bill also says – citizens who have registered their residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia before the entry into force of this law are required to register their residence in accordance with the provisions of this law within a year from the date of entry into force of this law. If you would apply this in practice, so imagine the situation, I would ask Mr. Dacic to listen to me and I would ask Mrs. Comic not to talk, while I try to explain the amendment because it makes me very distracted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62793	National MP, you are forbidden direct communication with other MPs, including the chairman, and it is also clear in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic breaks order at the National Assembly session with her movements. I ask you, MP, that you take all your intentions, take every political strategy into account with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then neither you nor I have a problem. Casualty will not be tolerated because it is forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Indecent movements, throwing objects around the National Assembly's hall in this case paper, in some other cases some other items are inadmissible and it is a disgrace, except for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62794	I'd like to suggest Zoran Krasic if he has one, if that's okay with him. So I agree that it would be useful to execute in Article 29 means, in the first part, but in the first part of this proposal. You have proposed an amendment to delete the second part of "the citizenship of other countries created in the territory of the former SFRY". Here is the urgency to cover themselves, to include those citizens and former SFRY with this member of the law, and when it ceased to exist, the SFRY of other countries that were formed in the territory of the SFRY. On the other hand, there are still some citizens who have federal citizenship, and have not entered any citizenship after Yugoslavia's collapse, I say. Since Serbia is a co-excessor of all these things, it must solve the issue. So, since I don't know what the parliamentary possibilities are anymore, they told me that it's possible, I also suggested for what Natasa Jovanovic said, that if there is a consensus and agreement, we are ready to accept, to the member who defined the residence to be registered for up to a year, the amendment was the longest for up to five years. We are ready to accept, if the amendment proposes two years, we will accept it and I suppose it will be at the vote in the voting day. Here, if Mr Krasic wanted to do so, if he went to the amendment, we would agree to stand - for the citizens of the former SFRY or for the citizens of another state created in the territory of the former SFRY. It's a provision that exists in the Law of Citizenship, so if you agree, I don't mind doing so, because these are formulas that would probably define exactly what we were talking about. Now, since we don't have any more ambassadorial options, if Mr Krasic wants it, to make such a correction, we will accept it. It means that instead of what it says, the citizens of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY, to delete it, to actually erase this -- the former republics of the SFRY, but only the former SFRY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62795	In the case of an amendment on which there is a dialogue between the proposings and the MPs who submitted it, as far as the deadline is concerned, it is possible, with the consent of the National Assembly, to agree to amend the amendment from five to two years. The problem with the amendment discussed by Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is that the MP submitted the amendment to another part of the sentence. In accordance with Article 27, it would be common for this search to be concluded in particular when we have completed the debate and according to the last amendment and then to be paused, but making sure that all possible interests and MPs and MPs are heard and tried to shape the amendments, I will not conclude the item of the agenda until we arrive at the afternoon part of the session, and I will leave that time with the order of the National Assembly, Secretary General of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Krasic, who has submitted the amendment and representatives of the Government to see whether and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Procedure, the agreement on how to amend Article 29, in which the amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic, is reached. That's the most I can do, and that's what I'm obliged to do to conclude a search in detail, because after that, nobody can really do anything, not even a proponent to withdraw the law, let alone something else. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Martinović Aleksandar is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, this is not the first time you have entered an unsuitable dose of anxiety at the National Assembly session. Mr Nemanja Sarovic most kindly asked you not to communicate with the minister while he is trying to convince the minister of the correctness of our amendment. You're saying no direct communication with the MP is allowed, but I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62797	National MP, the same kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure is not allowed. You know that better than I do. In the same article you are referring to, you are not allowed to call twice for the same violation in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62798	Mrs. Comic, for the first time, I have now reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62799	It doesn't matter how many times he shows up, you can't say the same kind of offense. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic wants to speak as an authorised representative. He has the right to use 10 minutes of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62800	Mr. Dacic, about what you just said, I tried earlier. What's the point? You wrote one in an explanation. In the light of the bill, the following is said: citizens of former SFRY republics or nationals of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY. We do not dispute "nationals of the former republics of the SFRY", the second part is disputed, and we have asked to delete the words "or citizens of another country created in the territory of the former SFRY". In the light of the law, you say the amendment is not accepted because the MUP records contain citizens who were registered as citizens of the former SFRY. As far as we're concerned, the former SFRY we all know what the former republic is, too, we all know what it is – Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, BiH, Montenegro, but we don't know what other countries are, except for the former republic. If other countries are former republics, then there's no need to write it twice. This is where you wrote it twice. We can accept one thing, to write the former SFRY, since it was the citizenship of the former SFRY, or the former republics of the SFRY, but we insist in any case on erasing the term - other states created in the territory of the former SFRY. Such a state does not exist except for those already numbered. Such a state can only be Kosovo. So, there was no citizenship of another country created in the territories at any time -- either it's the former republic or it's the former SFRY, the third one doesn't exist. (Ivica Dacic, from the scene: There is a third since the break-up of SFRY. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62801	Please, no direct communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62802	Be careful, since the break-up of the SFRY, Croatia has formed. Is Croatia the former Republic of SFRY? Yes, it is. If you say the former member of the SFRY, it is Croatia, it can be NDH 100 times. If you say Montenegro, whether it's this one now, it's the former republic of the SFRY again or it's the citizenship of the former SFRY as a whole. (Ivica Dacic, from the scene: it was never a state, but it was a republic. ) It was not a state and it is not controversial, because it is the former republic of the SFRY or former SFRY. That's the essence, there's no new state, it's created in the territory of the SFRY, except for those countries that were formed by the former republics. The only one who, God forbid, can come into existence is independent Kosovo in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and we want to make sure that such a possibility is excluded in the law. That's what the point is. So don't ask the SRS to change this first formulation that isn't disputed. For us, it's a dispute that we asked him to be erased. It's the only thing that matters. No matter how many warnings you make, whatever pressures they may be, we won't give up. So if this isn't what you want, then you can freely close the debate. What does it mean to hold an open debate until an agreement is reached? We've submitted the amendment, we know what we wanted with that amendment, it's not questionable at all. So we wanted to delete the words "or the citizens of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY". We believe that, apart from former members of the former republics, there are no other states.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62803	It was used four minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62804	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to, speaking of this amendment to Article 31, which speaks of regulations that must be harmonised and adopted in order to apply this law, point out one problem that can arise if, when it comes to these regulations, it is not mentioned by the Social Protection Act, but if, as one of the rules which is important for the change of this law, the Social Protection Act does not change in that part which speaks about the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Work. In this regard, Article 11 of this Act provides that all persons, when determining where the residence can be and how the residence is determined, all persons who cannot, in one of the ways that is stated in the draft law, are to apply to the Centre for Social Work and that their place of residence will be at the social work centre. I think it can cause a lot of difficulties in applying this law, and for a number of reasons. First of all, social work centres are not required to comply with this law. The responsibility of the Centre for Social Work has been established by the Social Protection Act, which does not foresee giving consent to the residence of certain persons in the Social Labour Centre, which the centres will certainly have to do in order for a person to have a place of residence at the Social Labour Centre. The Centre for Social Work, if it wants to give consent to a person having a place of residence in a social work centre, must also carry out a certain procedure. He is not in charge of this under the Social Protection Act, on the one hand, and on the other hand, there is no capacity in terms of the number of employees to implement it. Therefore, the legal obligation of the Centre for Social Work does not exist and some slightly braver director can say – I will not act according to this law, so I will not allow persons to apply, to have a place in a social work centre. On the other hand, if he says – okay, we will follow the Law on residence, there may be a problem when it comes to persons living as tenants. In fact, it often happens that 90% of people living as tenants have no registered residence where they really live, because the landlords don't want to conclude a contract with them because they're afraid they're going to have to pay a rent tax, so basically, they either have to report their residence to their parents. What if they don't have parents? Therefore, they have the only option under this law to register their residence at the social work centre. I find it extremely inappropriate that such persons, therefore, who are not in a state of social need, who have absolutely nothing to do with the responsibility of the Centre for Social Labour, with the jobs that the centre is doing, are being led to have their residence at the social work centre. So, first of all, I believe that this provision, that Article 11(4) does not comply with the Social Protection Act. I don't think social work centres are obliged to comply with this law unless the provisions of the Social Protection Act, which speaks of the responsibility of the Social Work Centre, are changed. Such an irregularity would be possible to correct by setting out the point of Article 11, in which it would be stated that the residence could only be registered at the social work centre by those in a state of social need. I think that in this way it would be fully respected the intention of the legislator who, in fact, had the idea to protect persons who were in a state of social need, who had no residence, who because they didn't have a residence, couldn't take out a personal card and, in the end, couldn't exercise some rights that belonged to them under the Social Protection Act, for example. the right to material security, which cannot exercise the right to a child's allowance. There is also a technical possibility, even though the deadlines for the amendment have expired, to do so, so I ask you to consider what I said. I don't think it would be a violation of the intention of the legislator, because the intention was to protect these people who don't have a residence, so they're hobos, people who have nowhere to live, and on the other hand, of course, that's the job of a social work center, it's like a custody body, like an organ that takes care of people who can't take care of themselves, it's bound to do it. Again, it would be in line with the Social Protection Act, which determines what is the responsibility of the Social Labour Centre.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62805	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Time is available for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, first of all, I would like to ask, if possible, to call the minister, because he is not currently in the O.R., and I would like to persuade him to accept this amendment. I don't know who I could communicate with if the government's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62807	People's MPs, the representatives of the promoter are here. If you take the Rules of Procedure and look at it, there is no provision of the Rules of Procedure which determines that the minister must be in the O.R. It is a good practice for which, of course, the creation and representatives of opposition and representatives of ruling parties share. So, the minister or any Deputy Prime Minister sent by the government has the right to be out of the O.R. as well as any other participant in the session. A little more knowledge of the Rules of Procedure can benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62808	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I didn't mean anything by it, but I really don't know the lady. I know Mr. Dacic, but okay, so be it. As regards the amendment to Article 31, Article 31 of the Law stipulates that the accompanying documents will, among other things, be all the documents we talked about when talking about Article 13, documents relating to the ability of the competent authority to assess whether a citizen wants to or does not want to live on a permanent basis. These are, among other things, documents relating to Article 18(2). These are documents relating to Article 19, documents relating to Article 30, documents relating to Article 29. So, under the proposal of your law, sublegal acts that will finally be put into office of this law will be passed within six months. It says – up to the adoption of sublegal regulations under this law is changed previously, etc. I ask you, what will happen in the meantime? The proposal was that within three months these sublegal acts were passed, because you practically and yourself, through reason, admit that for the next six months, you would not be able to enforce the law. If there were enough elements and the law was precise enough, you wouldn't need sublegal acts. You say here – the amendment is not accepted because the regulation of six months for the adoption of sublaws in our national legislation is taken and considered as a widely accepted and sufficient period of time in which regulations can be drawn up and adopted under the law. Excuse me, where are you and how did you find this to be a widely accepted deadline? Here, I don't accept that deadline. The SRS parliamentary group does not accept the deadline, the DSS parliamentary group does not accept the deadline. How can Mirko Cvetkovic explain that it is an accepted deadline? Obviously not. I guess the fact that the amendment submitted is enough to show that it's not an accepted deadline? It is said to be a matter of assessing the legislator within which the deadline, in accordance with its existing capacities and capabilities, will lay down rules on the basis of powers and laws. That's ridiculous. This is a misrepresentation of the National Assembly. You're the legislator. The National Assembly is the only one who has the capacity to determine what is and what is not, what is accepted and what is in line with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Where did you get the courage and the haughtiness to say that it was a matter of assessing the legislator? And that's an argument for you why you didn't accept the amendment? For no amendment you rejected, you have given no valid reason. You say it - it's the proposalor's assessment. Then what's the amendment for? I suppose the whole marriage is a matter of appraisal of the promoter, isn't it? You are, in fact, indignant to the National Assembly and the entire democratic process that takes place here when the law is passed. If this is a matter of legislator and a matter of assessment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what do you need a parliament for anyway? So that we may argue here, that we may receive warnings and that ye may say, behold, the ruling majority may vote and that the land is square. It's not a valid argument that you're saying it's the legislator's business. If that's a matter of your judgment, bring the law yourself. Don't even refer the laws to the procedure. Don't let us endure the amendments, don't do anything. We would also like to see that there is no "d" of democracy here, to show that the government of the Republic of Serbia's dictatorship above the Assembly is naked here, to see which branches you brought representatives of citizens to. In the National Assembly there used to be 250 MPs with equal rights and obligations, and there was one who was first among the equal. Obviously, there's been a imbalance now. It is obvious that you no longer allow opposition MPs to deliver their opinions here. And there's a difference in opinion here, so if an opinion doesn't like someone from the ruling coalition, then opposition MPs are hitting on the pocket. This is not a valid explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62809	Five minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word, given that the last amendment, in order, is on Article 31? (No) Before we conclude today's work in the morning and conclude the search, on the basis of Article 90, I shall inform the National Assembly that in amendments to Article 29 and to Article 18, in accordance with the procedure and Rules of Procedure, the agreement is to be reached in dialogue with the applicant of the amendment, with their undeniable intention to improve the quality of the law, to reach a solution which would be in accordance with the procedure and with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and until I am informed that such an agreement has been reached, there will be no conclusion of the search. Since the arguments have been exchanged and there is no longer any need to postpone the conclusion of the examination of the draft law in particular, and we have concluded the search for amendments, I am concluding a review of the bill in particular and the National Assembly will decide in the day of voting on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I'm setting a break that will take a little longer than the usual hour, based on Article 87, so we'll continue the afternoon session at 1600 hours, by searching the details of the draft law on administrative inspection. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, on the basis of this member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has called for the presence of Zoran Petrovic, Deputy Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Gordana Stanic, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The third item of the agenda: PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON ADMINISTRATIVES, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Jovan Palalić, Milica Radović, Zoran Krasić, Zlata Djerić, Srđan Spasović, Mirača Šarić, Mirjanić, Mirjavić, Miračina Miražina Miračina, Miršavić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made, and since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move to the debate following the first amendment submitted, just to remind you that the representatives under this item of the agenda for the parliamentary groups are the following MPs: The United People's Party of Serbia – MP Djuro Peric, MP New Serbia – MP Srdjan Spasojevic, Parliamentary Group Liberal Democratic Party – Parliament MP Judita Popovic, Democratic Party of Serbia – MP Jovan Palalic and the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group – MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Each of the authorised representatives in the debate shall have 15 minutes at his disposal, with the total time available to the parliamentary groups. If the MPs' groups would like to authorise another MP as a representative in the debate and in the search of particulars, please inform us about this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Do we work till the end or just 1800 hours? ) On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I repeat the information that we will be doing, as I have already informed during the afternoon, and after 18.00 hours, until the end of the search in the details of the point that has just been opened. Work on the search in particulars by the following points will continue tomorrow and the next working days. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The amendment, the previous and this, has not been declared by the committees, so that the amendment will be on the day of voting for the National Assembly's statement? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62811	This is the law on administrative inspection, and I think we should stick to what is prescribed by Article 1 of this bill. What needs to be regulated by this law is, first of all, the organisation of this service to carry out administrative inspection, mode of work, the status of the person involved in the affairs of administrative inspection and the corresponding number of provisions concerning the procedure, as is done. It would have to be contained in this bill and beyond that should not be gone. The inspection supervision is a specific type of supervision, and the administrative inspection is primarily responsible for controlling the state administration, as it applies the General Administrative Procedure Act and any other regulations concerning the status of civil servants, the organisation of public authorities. That's too wide a definition. If it were to be specified, it could be mentioned for days what this surveillance covers, a specific type of supervision that needs to be done by administrative inspection. Now I'm coming to Article 3. It's impossible for inspection to tell the story, Mr. Markovic. The department is characteristic of the organs, and when it comes to inspection, then we need to talk about what the inspection is in charge of. We need to define the jurisdiction of the administrative inspection by Article 3, because there is a big difference between jurisdiction and the detour. If you don't get me wrong, I fully understand what you were going to say to Article 3 to list all those areas that are regulated by special laws, where the jurisdiction of administrative inspection could be established. That's where you made the mistake. Why? Because you had to define jurisdiction with two attitudes. The second position in Article 3 is acceptable because it calls for individual laws, other laws where the administrative inspection is prescribed, and that is not the problem, but in the 1st position you entered into the story of the business and the part round, and you essentially had to talk about jurisdiction, so now I return to this amendment that I have submitted. I do not dispute what you have answered in your opinion on the amendment, is in the Law on Political Parties and in the Law on Associations, there are provisions that give jurisdiction to the administrative inspection to control. Who? First of all, the state authority keeping records, that's the provision. When you put it in the form of a detour and list all areas, then someone will think – wait, what has a administrative inspection with political parties and associations of citizens. You have unnecessarily caused the need to write the amendment. You unnecessarily caused the need to question yourself, only because in the first position you should have stated that she was in charge and that you were invoking special laws. You don't even have to say all the laws, but blanquetically – to those laws that require the jurisdiction of the administrative inspection, as something similar to what you did in paragraph 2. I think it's best to intervene in a completely different way. I don't think there's a similar amendment to Article 3, but attitude one would have to be re-reformed to look like jurisdiction, and not to the cleavage. The government has a detour. The National Assembly has some work to do. Now some new terms are used – rights and obligations. In the case of an administrative inspection, all we can talk about is jurisdiction. There is a defined actual authority, very specific. I don't argue, you wanted to count the areas and you caused the need for someone to now think about whether it could be prescribed in this way. The best thing to do is, I'm telling you, if by one provision, it's probably Article 3, the title above Article 3 should not be a detour, but the jurisdiction of an administrative inspection and simply refer to individual laws that prescribe the jurisdiction of an administrative inspection. As you missed the topic, you wrote – a detour, a range of jobs, not specific competences, you just caused confusion. I suggest you, if there's any possibility of intervening in some way, intervene, because we don't have a single regulation that defines inspection, inspection supervision, where they're told about their work, it's already clear what the inspection is in charge of. There is a jurisdiction of educational inspection, health inspection, etc. The administrative inspection is the same, the only thing different is the job content, but the inspection review is the inspection. They are very similar to the powers of an administrative inspector, as well as a health inspector, an educational inspector. You know that in education we have inspectors who control the normative act of the school, and then we have other inspectors who control how the program is announced, etc. In the end, what does that part of the educational inspection, which controls the normative act, the status of employees, it's a business of administrative inspection, there's no difference. That's where you wrote - jurisdiction, and this is where you entered the story of the detour. This is advice on how to remove this, because as stupid as it's written, it can only create problems. Here, we took the opportunity to ask this amendment to delete the words "political parties and associations". It was also possible to submit an amendment to any of these areas you listed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62812	Five minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62813	Tanana is this difference, and it is a complex issue of detour and jurisdiction. I can't say I wouldn't accept the amendment if what you said had been translated into the amendment. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place, are you who you are? Without a joke, I agree, it's more like a narrow term "judgment" than "deliquor." Simply, it is more relevant to jurisdiction than to a detour, although when it comes to organs, we generally say – a detour of the body, but the essential part of the circle is broader than jurisdiction. I'd prefer jurisdiction here. I mean, we don't really have a problem. It's a good thing you warned about that, but it's pretty clear what this is all about. I'm saying, really, if there was a possibility, it would certainly be in this text, if nothing else, just a title, so it would be better. Well, for what it's worth, I accept this suggestion, but I don't think anything can change right now. No damage was ever produced. It would be better if we could do it aesthetically now, and it would be more precise if it were – jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62814	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has accepted the amendment, but the committees have not declared themselves, and the amendment is under review and the applicant has the right to his two minutes. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. People's MPs, I'm sorry, you don't sound well, so if you can use a second MP's unit. The risk is not to be heard on television, so please either change the MP's unit or the professional service will fix it. My apologies, there's no intentional mistake, but it happens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62815	Mr. Martinovic submitted the amendment, Mr. Minister, and you accepted it. I think it's a good thing we've drawn your attention to this member of the law, but I would add to this explanation of this amendment, and also to the public, if they knew what this amendment refers to, the whole of Article 5 describes the purpose of the administrative inspection. You have suggested that it should contribute specifically to ensuring respect for the principle of legality in the work of state authorities, autonomous province authorities, local self-government units and public authorities. This is where we asked to put the point, that this is enough, as well as to delete the rest of the text, which reads – respect for human and minority rights and freedoms in the process before the authorities of the state administration, the authorities of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and public authorities. Obviously, we were right to ask for such a thing. You did not give an explanation during the debate in principle why you singled out human and minority rights from all other rights provided for by the constitution. That also justified the intervention on our part and the adoption of the amendments on your part. But that's what drove her to think and during the debate in principle that I claim that you really don't commit yourself enough, not just you, we know who prepares the laws, but all of you in the government when you're preparing the laws don't care to adapt them to our conditions, but you're taking over the finished solutions. You think that the law is much more advanced now and that it is more adapted to European standards if we mention human and minority rights in general. It is as if we question whether human and minority rights are respected in Serbia. There is no country in a world where human and minority rights are more respected than in Serbia. You will surely confirm it and agree with me. Now, how come we keep pushing something like that into the law? In this way we are practically challenging some to conclude that we have the need now to be in one way, which is inadequate, because if the Constitution protects in an adequate way human and minority rights, why do we need to put it into laws now? I am pleased that you have accepted this amendment by Mr Martinovic, but I simply wanted that, for the sake of the public and colleagues who should vote on this amendment, because you have accepted it, it does not mean that it will be an integral part of the law, because the parliamentary majority should declare this amendment, I give an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62816	Three minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National Parliament, Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62817	Article 6 concerns independence in the work of administrative inspectors. I'm going to go back to the fact that we convinced you that we didn't need this law in order to be happier as a parliamentary group, that's the SRS' position that this matter is regulated by the State Administration Act. We're against multiple laws. It could have been like it used to be, and now the administrative inspection is working on the only four members of the State Administration Act left, but you imagine it so, so you suggest, this law will probably pass. You accepted some of the amendments and our and Mr Mecca Omerovic, I saw, it's all going towards improving the very text of the law, but it's much easier to do. A much better functioning legal system in the state if there are fewer laws, especially when they regulate the same matter, regardless of what we need to do to be precise, right then we can cause the biggest confusion. With this amendment, we intervened on Article 6(2), where it states that the administrative inspector is independent in the work, within the limits of the powers laid down by law, which is logical, and that he is personally responsible for his work. We felt that the words "personally responsible" should be replaced by the words that he was responsible to the Chief Inspector. For what? We went through the logic of the Constitution itself and Article 125. The constitution, which states, for example, that the ministry as an authority of the administration and a minister as the head of the administration's body: "Ministers are responsible for their work and for the situation in the area of the ministry's work to the Prime Minister, the Government and the National Assembly." So, logically. Here, too, in our opinion, the inspector should be responsible for the Chief Inspector. It is understood, on the basis of other regulations, that he is responsible for the criminal, criminal or disciplinary, again to that same chief inspector or to whom he or she is already or the director of the ministry. We think this amendment could have been accepted and he would have defined better what you wanted to define, which is the responsibility of the inspector himself. It's far more precise, and the basis of responsibility is drawn from the body of the other laws. For you to still think, you have time and time during this debate to plead, but this was my supplementary explanation. The time I used was from representatives of the parliamentary group, for Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62818	A minute and 25 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62819	I can only assume why the government has not accepted this amendment. It is not only the reason why they stated why they do not accept the amendment, the invitation to Article 30. The State Administration Act. I don't even know how you wrote a bill like this. Article 6 has its title – independence in work, and it starts with attitude 1. where it is said: "the administrative inspectors' affairs are carried out by administrative inspectors". What does that have to do with independence? This has more to do with how administrative inspection is done. Maybe it should go, first of all, into these provisions on organisation, etc. In Section 2, I know what you're trying to say, to ensure the independence of the administrative inspector, not independence, just independence. However, both independence and independence when used to define the work of an organ or functioner is always an addition – within the limits of the prescribed law. The principle of rule of law means that all powers are in some way limited, curved. The very fact that there are limits in the law as long as someone can spread when they use their official authority is that guarantee. After all, it is also something that springs from the principle of dividing authorities, where all branches of government are independent and independent, but curved by the Constitution and law, so do not come into some conflict. What Mrs. Pop Lazic wanted with this amendment, she wanted to point out that this "personally is responsible", in fact, doesn't mean anything, what's in attitude 2. Anyone who does a job is personally responsible. And the driver is personally responsible and whoever works at the ministry as a civil servant is personally responsible for what he does and for what he doesn't do, but he's at work. The question of personal responsibility is the same as you said – you are also responsible for everything under criminal law, civil regulations, law violations, disciplinary regulations, in extreme cases and moral matters. Here it was intended to potential exactly what is already being discussed in Article 9, that the organisation of administrative - inspection affairs is based on the pyramid. So you have an administrative inspectorate, you have a chief administrative inspector and you have administrative inspectors. They can be classified. How? Under some real jurisdiction, they can be classified by territorial principle, with some lower organisational forms. It is indisputable that this chief administrative inspector is the most important, most responsible and has the right to seek the responsibility of the lower ones, in case they do not comply with the law and comply with the regulations. That's what Gordana wanted with this amendment. Of course, he is independent, etc. In point 3. You want to strengthen your independence by going with a provision that prohibits anyone from carrying out, allegedly, pressure, from misusing their position to disable the administrative inspector, etc. No problem, but there's no place in this article. It is for an independent member where everyone is forbidden to disturb and interfere, prevent, prevent an administrative inspector from carrying out the procedure, determine the truth, apply the law, impose measures, and all that is in the description of the inspection work. I don't think anything is lost if you adopt the amendment, Gordana Pop Lazic, but the amendment helps to make these things concrete. If the amendment is accepted, do not think that the first part of this sentence is analized – independence. All officials are independent in the exercise of their official powers. Everyone is independent within the official powers they have. Why? Official powers are defined by the relevant law. We know exactly where the authority begins and where it ends. Everyone has two lines: minimum and maximum. It must move in accordance with the law, but there must be someone who will control whether it was in those lines or out of those lines. You know, in many areas, administrative inspection has done so far so-called. formal control: whether a request has been received, whether it is completed, whether the object is well-formed, whether statements have been taken, whether a procedure has been implemented, whether a solution has been reached, within which time a solution has been reached, etc. Why am I telling you this? That's what the Citizens' Protector writes, because he's that kind of control, how management works, that he pours out the good one. Whether the administration is doing its job respecting the Constitution, the law, and especially the part reserved for the Protector of Citizens, which is respect for human rights. When you look at what the Citizens' Protector says in his reports, you will see for yourself that all his remarks refer to the fact that we do not have a good administration. We have problems in that administration, there's volunteerism and there's willpower, etc. Of course, it's a general problem beyond that we look at the problem of administration and bureaucracy. All countries have problems with bureaucracy, and the EU has problems with the Brussels administration, which has reproduced and destroyed everything alive, sometimes someone hears it, sometimes it's someone pretending they don't hear it, someone wants to say it, someone shuts up there honey and milk. It's not honey and milk. You can imagine how they'll just go when you get the candidacy, so when these families get in. One Dinkic comes, so 25 Dinkic enters the administration, there's nothing from that administration. So nothing is lost with this amendment, it's just helping to be more precisely defined that everything can help us understand what the independence of a governing inspector is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62820	Seven minutes used by the MP's group. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, so this is an amendment to Article 7. The proposal of your law, for the sake of the public, I will only say that Article 7 has the title "Supposed Authority position" and that in this Article 7 in Section 1, you say that the administrative inspector is obliged to allow the supervisory authority to participate in inspection actions and to give its opinion on the fact that he has found and in the position of 2 I have responded, says the administrative inspector is particularly obliged to meet the supervised authority with facts, data and evidence that has not been obtained from him and enables him to make known about them. So I responded to this point 2 with one addition that on these facts, evidence and data from the previous position, so on data not obtained from the supervised authority but from another body, the administrative inspector makes up a special record and that report is an integral part of the main, to say the minutes. So, Mr. Minister, this is about special, sort of specific facts and evidence. Facts and evidence obtained from a third organ, which has been supplied physically, not in the place of a supervised organ, but elsewhere. Therefore, they were added elsewhere, and that is why, at that moment, the inspector should make a special record, especially when it comes to facts and evidence that the supervised authority is to be declared tomorrow, and he then gives him an insight into what he has obtained, from that third authority, this statement is also being made in this report. Therefore, the amendment simply requires that a protocol be drawn up in addition to this, which would be an integral part of the main record of these data, facts and evidence obtained by a third authority by the administrative inspector. In response to not accepting this amendment, the Government informs me that these facts are actually an integral part of this main record. I don't think that says anything. It doesn't say anywhere that they're part of it. I'm just going to remind you of one other thing, Mr. Minister, I'm going to remind you of Article 29 of your bill, there's a regulation on what makes up that main record. It's a cab that says exactly what the main record should contain, and there's nothing I've reacted to anywhere, and you're saying it's an integral part of the main record. No, so I'm asking it to stand explicitly as an integral part of the special record, as an integral part of the main record. I think this is meaningful and that you could accept this amendment. I mean, I'm not sure, I guess you don't think it should be accepted for the reason it would be an extra job for the inspector, right? However, they physically go to a third party, going to a state body in a second place that is physically away from that supervised body, and in that place it makes up this special record. It's simple, I think it's a circumstance you should consider. You should simply accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62822	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The committees have not spoken, the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment, and the committees have not declared themselves. The National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62823	Mr. Minister, Article 13, i.e. the title above Article 13, reads "Inspector's Limitation in Long Jobs". First, we think it's too high, and on the other hand, when you talk about the administrative inspector, you keep forgetting about this Chief Inspector. We asked that you treat the Chief Inspector here as well as the Chief Inspector, and you, in your explanation, tell us that it is, in fact, and you are referring to Article 9 but we from that Article 9 see that the administrative inspector is actually a double personality. Because you formed that directorate, headed by the directorate, is the withdrawal of the chief administrative inspector. It seems a little funny, you have to admit. So either he's the director or he's the chief administrative inspector. You say, here in the law itself, in brackets, in the text below, chief administrative inspector. But you'll allow it, for legal norms, but it's also unacceptable for someone to be a director and have those powers and be the chief administrative inspector. So he can carry out administrative oversight and, in that case, how many complaints there are, and we know that the complaint is referred to you, a complaint about everything that other administrative inspectors are doing to which he's superior is referred to him. So if I have a headache from this much of your normity, what he is, is the chief administrative inspector, is the director, is the administrative inspector, and does not hurt the head, it seems to you, even because of this amendment of ours, that, in Article 13, in addition to the fact that the administrative inspector cannot carry out certain business or other activities, which bring him into conflict of interest, is also the chief administrative inspector. We don't like anything that you've regulated about this administrative inspector, especially if you're proposing that the government put him in a certain number of years, it seems to me to be five years. You're talking, you're working the other one. This is where you push for competitions to be explored, so let's find the best staff, so this is an extremely professional job, and on the other hand, it's gonna be a political frame. In general, it seems to us the whole law when we look at that, in fact, you want, even though the budget is the way it is, to host us before the elections or for the future one large number of your staff who have a certain education, of course, as is required by a member of this 10th law -- highly educated people, graduate lawyers with a certain number of years of work experience. So, you have rejected this amendment, believing that this is excessive and that this is understood, that the administrative inspector is the same as the chief administrative inspector. So, director, chief administrative inspector, administrative inspector, it's all this man you're going to propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. We'll see who it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62824	Three minutes and 25 seconds were used by an authorised representative. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62825	So, according to the law, since the current assistant minister of inspection has passed the competition and, after the competition, the change in the organisation itself cannot lead to him losing his position, so that he continues with the same mandate to perform this position. So it's in accordance with the Civil Service Act and there's no dilemma. To tell you the truth, the man who is currently in that place will continue to do so and remain. This is what all state officials in office of the ministry, whose head I am of, who have not been mandated at the moment of my appointment, have been proposed to them, and these are the people who have worked here for many years and who I have inherited and who will remain, I hope after me, too, from Zoran Loncar and Rodoljub Sabic and before that from the Ministry of Justice, so don't have a dilemma there. I absolutely don't think anyone else should come from those who've been doing it for 20 years. According to the State Administration Act, the first body of the administration in the department is the director and therefore the name is the director. The director of the administration's body is part of the ministry, director of the IRS, director of the Customs Administration, it's the State Administration Act, it's not what we wanted now to be inventive, so let's make something up. It's just like that. To go back to why the special law. That's what I said last time, the State Administration Act is supposed to pass a special law. I didn't come here now, so let's be inventive, it just said it. I agree with you, it could have been one law, but that's just the way it was. I think it's very important that what my predecessor did in this place and that since 2005 there has been, to keep working. It would be very bad if the moment someone becomes a minister to draw the line, cancel the previous system and start building their system, especially when it comes to state administration. The reason for the name is the director is because it's in the State Administration Act. As far as the competition is concerned, the competition will be called. As Minister, I am authorized to propose. If I'm a minister again, I know how many months I'm going to propose to the same man again. If he's a new minister, he'll propose whoever he thinks he should, but I don't think that's where he should work. Anyone who takes people as assistant ministers will make a mistake and has made a mistake anyone who has not taken for ministerial assistants people who have been doing this job for many years, who have some kind of institutional memory. I was very fortunate that after Zoran Lonchar, I had inherited a group of brilliant ministerial assistants who, unfortunately, at some point had parted. One became judge of the Constitutional Court, etc., but there is still a great group. I respect all your arguments, but understand that you and I have been limited by some other laws that have given elements for both this law and some future laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62826	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The committees have not declared themselves, so the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62827	Mr. Minister, we've drawn your attention in the principle debate that we're dissatisfied with how the law regulates not only trust in business, but by organising an administrative inspection at all. We tried to help this amendment, because it's unclear, if you've entrusted the job to the city administration, who's running this inspection, whether it's the head of the administration or if there's a city's chief administrative inspector here? It's logical that it exists. I don't see what we're losing by it, because it's certain that someone must rise above other administrative inspectors at that level of local self-government, to manage these bodies, and also because of their responsibility, because it is clear that the ministry can also raise its administrative inspector, and even the chief administrative inspector, or director, can exercise administrative oversight at the level of the City of Belgrade, has happened before. We had that case. Such an organization existed in the '80s, not to inform this city's chief administrative inspector and comes to carry out, say, an inspection, which is incorrect, but it can be done differently. A joint review can be carried out, but still someone has to be responsible for the work of all these inspectors at the level of the City of Belgrade, because I see you've isolated it from all other forms of local self-government. I spoke in the principle debate that it was not explained enough that administrative inspection at the level of all Serbia would work. Obviously, in some areas, but we're not quite clear, so we doubt that even. We're more inclined to believe that some new territorial organization you'll come up with because we see that for two districts you have one administrative inspector. It is impossible for this man to get the job done properly and to be effective and to achieve some effect of administrative inspection and therefore we doubt at all that this law will be of great importance, or that it will produce some results in the area in which it is expected because a large number of administrative inspectors are needed, which, given the number of entities to be controlled, can achieve that control. If we have more than 18 or 20,000 entities that he controls, I don't know how you think he controls it. You owe us that explanation. You left when we began the debate in principle, when our MP group discussed it. Now you have time, you can tell what you thought, that at least the public knows, that local self-government knows. You know, we're not the only ones interested, they're not just citizens interested in whom they're going to address in case the government's authority doesn't do something right. The local self-government doesn't know how it's gonna be controlled. Public enterprises don't know who's going to control them, whether someone from Belgrade will come, or if there's going to be someone from Nis, or if I don't know who, where that administrative inspection is going to sit, how many of these people are going to be there. There's nothing in the law about it, and you didn't say anything in your address defending the law on that matter. So we don't think it's bad to say it right now. Mr. Sarovic wanted to help you at least in this part, where you entrust jobs to the city of Belgrade's administrative inspection. Let it be prescribed that there is a chief inspector, so that we know who suits us if something is wrong and who needs to be dragged or called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62828	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The committees didn't come forward. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare itself. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. This amendment was also accepted by the government. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has also accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted an amendment to the title above Article 19 and to the introductory sentence of Article 19. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62829	This is a very good amendment, so I invite the MPs to vote in favour of the amendment. Although the report says it is not accepted here, I believe this amendment should be accepted. So, the amendment of Peter Jojic reads: "Article 21, paragraph 2, "brings" is replaced by the words "proposes" and after saying, "years", the point is replaced by a comma and the words "and adopted by the government" are added. "We think this solution would be very good and I invite all MPs to accept it. So it's about Article 21(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62830	Do you accept the amendment on behalf of the Proposer? For the sake of the stenogram, I understand that the motioner at the session accepted the amendment of MP Petar Jojic as a member of the 21st Parliament. Anyone else want a word? The 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment. The committees did not declare themselves, so the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has submitted an amendment to the title above Article 27 and Article 27. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62831	Mr. Minister, I think that we as a parliamentary group have really helped you to correct the bill. As far as I can tell, you've accepted a lot of our amendments. We have worked really hard to process this matter professionally, because this is not a law that expresses a political attitude and that is why we are interested in the administration doing what we would like to do and make it effective. I guess that's what we helped you with. But in Article 27 of which you are talking about preventive measures, you say: "The administrative inspector in carrying out inspection to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences due to the lack and irregularities in the enforcement of laws and other regulations, whose enforcement is supervised, may also take appropriate preventive measures, such as warning of the supervised authorities under the regulations, indicating possible adverse consequences, proposing measures to eliminate their causes and the like", may conclude that you have had a good intention here to help all supervised authorities correct any mistakes and to rule within the law. But you forgot that this is about state authorities, first of all, who are obliged to obey the law and that no one should teach them. We're not in a duck school so someone can teach them how to work. If they don't work properly, they're not so drastic here. The administrative inspector comes in, makes a record, and by that record he already points out irregularities and leaves the deadline for those irregularities to be corrected and only after that comes again, if he does not inform him, to see if it is all right and whether it is done on his order. Now, you're prescribing here that he needs to do one pre-work, so now let's educate you, then make seminars, and educate people as they should. This is completely excessive in law. It's kind of unacceptable. According to us, there is no special result, and also something called a preventive measure cannot exist in a law regarding inspection supervision. As a communal inspector, you can walk past the market and say, "Move, you're not allowed to hold boxes here, sell gloves." That poor people must live on something, so they sell something, flowers, winter gloves, hats, and I don't know what else, so the next time they come back, they make a circle, they can write a record or take away the goods. This isn't about that kind of thing. It's about state authorities working under the law and there's got to be some type of letter left behind what the administrative inspector did. He comes to the chief inspector, submits a report of what he was doing, he was in some municipality, say, in a public enterprise and says, "I warned an orally authorized person that he should do it and do it or say nothing." I don't know what he's gonna write in that report, what he was doing that day, if he just warned? Is that gonna record it? He'll write the record and say, "I'm warning you." He's gonna warn somebody, he's not gonna warn anybody. If he likes him, where he was in control, he'll warn him. If he doesn't like it, if there's an opposition party in power there, let's say, he'll be making him a record right away. If he's his party buddy, he'll warn him with coffee and whiskey. It's inappropriate to find such a thing in the law at all. It's inappropriate when it comes to administrative inspection. I've given you an example where it's possible that it's perfectly normal, that it's even desirable, but when it comes to this kind of work, it's kind of not acceptable. And your reasoning did not satisfy us, so we continue to insist that you consider completely erasing these preventive measures and that your administrative inspectors are then much easier to control and in some way prevent them from bringing anything subjectively into their work. So, there's one subjectivism if you tell someone -- you can go there, so now you can write something down, and you can warn him, so if he did, he did, and if he didn't, he didn't. There is certainly this volunteerism, and our amendment is about to survive everything else as you suggested in the law, which is the jurisdiction of administrative inspection, and that these preventive measures, and yet a little bit more serious about the effectiveness of the administrative inspection, you delete. Think again, then decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62832	Four minutes have been used since the time of authorised representatives 2.30 minutes and minutes and 30 of the parliamentary group's time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62833	These preventive measures are actually very important to us. They're kind of our goal. We would like to use preventive measures to solve everything, so that we don't have to conduct procedures and make solutions, which is wasting both time and money. But you can't do this orally. Every play that arrives must be answered in writing and the preventive measure cannot be spoken orally, but it is also written. So it's all in the case. Let’s say, through a statement from the supervisory authority, that it is necessary for him to change something in his work, if there is a need, we will certainly lead the proceedings and bring the solution, but for the sake of efficiency, let us immediately give him a preventive measure and warn him that it is a mistake, to be aware of it. Of course, if it has to, there will be a procedure. So I don't think there could be any abuse. The same chance of abuse is if we look at it that way through the conduct of the proceedings. It's simple, it's the same form. It doesn't make any difference. So, I still think that this should remain and that in principle and now gives good results, therefore, and the possibility of being given written warning by an organ to work-related failures. We remain in that article 27 is actually very useful and should be kept. Maybe you didn't see that whole, that it all goes into writing, seductive, etc. anyway. You'd be absolutely right, if that were to happen outside of it, but I assure you that it goes exclusively in writing through a normal seductive object. If that weren't the case, you'd be absolutely right, but that's right 100%.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62834	Right on line, two minutes, Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62835	I had to answer just to give you a little more help explaining our amendment and to convince you a little more why we think we're right. What hurts if you issue a solution? What is so terrible if the organ that you control gets a solution in which it stands – you have to do it, within that time limit? Nothing hurts more than this warning. You know, we don't see that qualitative difference. Not when it comes to consequences. Why are you going to those two levels? That's why we think there's a possibility of subjective evaluation, whether or not I'm going to give a warning, or I'm going to order something done. I'll have something done, because I think it's in accordance with the law. I'm speaking on behalf of the supervisory inspector who came into surveillance, and it doesn't hurt the organ that needs to carry it out. No one's going to jail, no one's going to pay any punishment, no one's going to do anything. He simply knows, he's taxed on what he needs to do, within what time he needs to do it. That's what an administrative inspector should do. He's not a tutor. He's a supervisory authority. The result of his surveillance must be a solution. I think we're here and from the theoretical point of view we're absolutely right. You think about it one more time. Nothing loses an administrative inspector, even gets the point if this measure is thrown out. We're all winning, so so are those powers that are being monitored and the authority that controls them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62836	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62837	Don't slow down the good part of what you said, I'll try to explain our attitude through a practical example. You've probably heard that in Serbia it happens that for reasons only known to people who do so, they're being placed in V.D. Head of the municipal administration, which by law is impossible. The law doesn't know V.D. It is known by the Labour Act or the Company Act, but the Law on Labour in State Authorities, as well as the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Civil Servants do not, in principle, know it. In that situation, since this is a procedure for setting up, the promoter appears. We can react preventively. I tried to illustrate one example. Practice is a charm. In that sense, these preventive measures can be beneficial. Now, if we don't go in, there's a really amazing number of these situations when they show up, here we are here on purpose, because no one's been controlling the use of the flag. Interestingly, no one did, so now we've taken it to get it to us in charge. There are major problems in understanding how to use the flag besides it, the flag of the national minority. You don't have to wait for something to happen, and then you're absolutely right, when it happens, we go through a classic procedure -- a solution, and there's no dilemma. But preventative sometimes isn't bad, when you have a sign that something's gonna happen. This is our opinion and therefore we remain in the position to maintain preventive measures in this form, as stated here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62838	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62839	If you'll excuse me, just a few more words. You come in, you monitor, you find that something's wrong, and you warn yourself that you'll bring a solution unless something is washed up, or you assume something's wrong in advance, and you warn that something needs to be done. I'm sorry, it's not the administrative inspector's job to keep him normal. There are laws that regulate it. There are laws that regulate how the flag stands out, which stands out. He just needs to control it. I think we got a little mixed up here. I suppose it's your intention to place everything in place, but it's not. This way, you won't, as you imagined here, achieve it. 'It strengthens the power of that solution. Then order, when you've established an irregularity. Look out, you come and everything's fine. Would you like to write a thank you note, would you like to publicly commend someone? You won't. Shut up, everything was fine. Secondly, you don't have the capacity to do all that. You don't have the number of inspectors to do anything you'd like to do. It's a huge problem, and you need to be aware of it. If this one inspector, who doesn't know how many subjects he has to control, should first warn and then bring the solution back, so that he can control whether it's an executive solution or not, there's nothing to do with it. All the time we've been telling you is that the main objective of any law is that it is enforceable, to be implemented. This way, as you suggested, we're really afraid that the administrative inspection won't be able to do the job. First, he won't be able to control all the organs, and then he won't be able to control them properly and properly. The law obliges us, a special law on administrative inspection, and we passed the law. What do you want the poor administrative inspectors to do afterwards, we don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62840	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62841	I can see the reason for this preventive surveillance in the cases I mentioned earlier. We have knowledge, objections arrive in writing of different kinds at the Ministry. There's everything and everything, thousands and thousands of things and everything. We have knowledge that this and that ministry will conclude contracts for the work of the ministry. He's preparing it. The warning measure – do not conclude contracts for work from the ministry's work. When we're on surveillance, then you're absolutely right. Then we're on surveillance. When we're on surveillance, we act later. Do you understand? When we're on surveillance, then we're making solutions. So this is before surveillance. I gave you the best example for V.D. Prevention measures. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. This is where we said inspection. In particular, when we're in the case of the conclusion of a contract, of a particular one, then we say the measure to break up that deal of the deed. The illegal establishment of a working relationship, we express the measure for an unlawfully based working relationship. We feel that this is how we should try this preventive action to solve something. I say again, it was an amazing thing, for a time, with the mayors of municipal administrations. Whether because of five years of experience, I don't know what the reason is, we don't have that in Belgrade. Normally, you were, too, so you know. But inside, that was the problem. You can see that the whole process is going, going and going. Generally known is the fact that a man like V.D. will be admitted. Then we could say a preventive measure in that, to warn of that, which doesn't exclude what you said. If they end up doing it, my God, then it's a higher degree, some greater will to break the law in which now, what to do, how to do it. So that's where we differ. I don't dispute any of what you said, but I'm trying to tell you why we put this on. Maybe you don't think it's justified, it's justifiable. I think it is justified and we will still go with that solution of ours. Obviously, I can't convince you, but it doesn't matter. It's important that you understand why we think it should stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62842	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62843	Mr. Minister, this is Article 28. The bill regulates the authority of the inspector to conduct surveillance. It is the impression that you, in principle, seem to me, as you said earlier, to go after the supervisory authority to do, in a way, everything as the administrative inspector tells it, because you come to him, as you say, usually upon application. In point 4 of this Article, you shall provide, quote: "to seek delivery, take or retain a general or individual act of the supervised authority which is subject to inspection and whose accuracy, in the event it is not the original act, shall be confirmed by the signing of the controller and the seal of the supervised authority". So this is the case, Mr. Minister, when the administrative inspector comes to the supervisory authority and asks him for a general act or asks for an individual act that he has issued or any other written document he needs to carry out his inspection. So at this point four, you're saying that if it isn't the original of the act, it confirms by its signature and stamp by the supervisory authority. First, do you need a seal? Now it's some question that can be discussed, by some other regulations, but well, I didn't eventually respond to that either. But is that absolutely correct proof for a administrative inspector? Is that correct proof for the administrative inspector if this person delivers to him an individual act that is not the original, which may be important for the solution. What if someone's playing with it? You're saying-- is anyone gonna play with that? But what if he's playing with it? Let me remind you, it's a copy, it's not the original. Second, what's to stop the administrative inspector from looking for the original? What's stopping him? It's just, the basic thing is that if he's looking for an individual act or a general act, he says -- give me the original of that act, he doesn't have to wear it. He'll say I only have one, right? He doesn't have to wear it, but he's looking for insight. And you're asking for this to be certified by signature or stamp now by some individual act. I'd like you to clarify what the intensity of this is if he doesn't have an original. Why isn't there an original?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62844	Fifty-five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62845	I agree with this last question - why there is no original, you're absolutely right, but believe me, there is no such thing. That's why this is supposed to happen. Let me tell you what the signature and seal mean. Whoever fakes it, it's a crime, I doubt anyone's willing to commit a crime for the sake of the systematization act and the orderly act, let's face it, that's for sure no one's going to commit crimes. Whoever's going to get into criminal-legal matter has no elemental logic. That's the reason. I know it sounds strange, but unfortunately, although the office business regulation is quite clear for the state authorities, it happens that you come and there are no originals, or there are originals, but in one instance, or when it comes to deployment, one of them is with workers, the other one here, we don't have to give you a third. Indeed, there are cases like this. Therefore, it is intended to be signed and stamped by the Authority, and if it were to be placed on the authority's not valid content, it would be a criminal offence to forge an official document. So, I'm afraid no one's ready to do something like that. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62846	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Markicevic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government accepted this amendment, the committees did not declare themselves, so the amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in voting day, but the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62847	Col. Sreto Peric pointed out to you in Article 29 that it is necessary, given what is provided for in Article 2 of this Act, where the administrative inspection has interference and what is in place, to monitor the implementation of laws and regulations and the conduct of the authorities of the state administration, courts, public prosecutors of the Republic of Public Attorney's Office, the service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, etc., that it is necessary not only to deliver the report to that authority that you oversee, but also to the one who is above that authority. You realize that's really necessary. In that sense, we reacted. I have to draw your attention to one fact, which is that you gave the worst explanation for some amendments, especially when we convinced you that it was necessary to get rid of this preventive surveillance. You mentioned these executives to the chief of staff. It doesn't matter who's in that position. It's the highest function in the authority of the administration. He has to be able to monitor and organize everything in the authority of the administration. That's how you're in the D.A.'s office. That's how the President of the Court is in court, etc. We had cases, remember we had V.D. The President of the Court. It can't be tolerated. There's no need for any warning. That's where the solution has to go right away. Secondly, it should not go forward with the proposal, it must not be done, it must not occur to anyone in a well-organized state to do such a thing and to place an incompetent person in a certain place. He's losing sight of everything that's been done and what that man has put his signature on if he doesn't meet the conditions to find himself in that place. He is not only responsible, but those who put him in such a situation, to place him in such a place. We don't know that in practice it was that someone had any adverse consequences because of what he did, whether he was responsible for it. We're all going on political responsibility. Let go of your political responsibility. That's a very broad term. People when they go to elections in different historical moments have different things in mind, why they vote for certain political parties, but when it comes to this kind of thing, we can't leave it to political responsibility, but solely to criminal or criminal responsibility. That is why we have submitted all these amendments to you, in order to allow you, not only you, you will not be doing this job for much longer, you will be doing some other work, or a colleague who is next to you, when his term of office may be up to another minister, and perhaps not proposing him as chief administrative inspector, you will never know that, but the law is passed, we are counting, for the next 10 years, maybe 15 years. The fact that we're passing laws in every term, the same laws we're modifying or supplementing, or we're going back to those amendments that someone once delivered when some law was in the process, so after two years it's been seen that someone was right, that's another thing. It is quite a certain width, that we want to decide to round up a certain area normally, but count on the good intentions of those who submit amendments, not just to want a story on a contact of time that belongs to us in the Rules of Procedure. Far from it. Every law is very important and that is how we approach our business here and try to make our contribution, to finally edit this country, the legal system in this country, but also the political system. Is that an understanding or not? Sometimes, yes, sometimes not, and sometimes we're really disappointed. Obviously sometimes we go a lot backwards, we go back to some time we'd like to forget, but it's mostly the ones in power, because they dictate the entire climate of political and legal life in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62848	Five minutes have been used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The government accepted this amendment, the committees did not declare themselves, but the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62849	Mr. Minister, the SRS has tabled this amendment to Article 31 and is proposing to add Article 5, which is why we consider it necessary to intervene in this article. This is to predict, as we suggest, that this solution from Article 1 must be delivered to the state body, which is directly responsible for the work of the supervised authority. The explanation is valid and very professionally given by Mrs Gordana Pop Lazic, who is extremely professional in this area. You can trust me that this area knows well, because she's been doing a lot of work, she knows the administrative law and this area when it comes to inspection. You see, in response to the Government, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 29 provides that the minutes are to be delivered to that authority which is competent and responsible for the supervised authority. But, Mr. Minister, it doesn't matter, the record and the solution. Here, just one example. This is just one comparison, it may not be appropriate, it is not the same as the solution to determine an investigation against a known or unknown perpetrator and does not oblige the authorities and certain entities in the proceedings. So, we suggest, and you estimate. We think the solution, first of all, is a tighter thing, a stronger thing in law, a stronger norm, so we suggest you adopt this. As for your assistant, Zoran Petrovic, I know very well, he worked with me at the Ministry of Justice when I was deputy minister of justice. As for his work, I don't have any objections. I know he's been in the department's administration since 1995, and he's been working in this area, but there's one question. It was said in this discussion that Mr Petrovic is currently in office, that he may be elected and his mandate will be extended. However, the question arises -- there is a change in government and there is someone in its place who is selling fog today in Serbia to citizens, these bottom-ups are selling fog, but it seems to me that the citizens are not going to buy it this time. What the SRS stands for, which is depolitisation of the administration and raising its efficiency to the highest possible level. We have no reason to invent here and tell the hollow story that Morava is going to pour herself into the Volga, and some in this pre-election campaign, as you can see, are not in the room, running around Serbia, and I said earlier, make false promises. We would just like to suggest that certain standards in this law be improved, to improve the text. What I have noticed is that you amendments to the SRS MPs, one number that has been respected, which confirms that our amendments have been meaningful and that they aim to improve the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62850	It was used two minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62851	You told me all this well, Mr. Jojic, about Zoran Petrovic. Now I asked him, his term expires on December 28th or something, so we'll think carefully about whether he'll earn his trust in the future. (Petar Jojic, from the place: If any of them come today... He won't come, don't be afraid, I'll stay, don't worry. (President: Please, no direct communication. I think we should both record and resolve, so I accept this amendment. So, both the record and the solution, let the supervisory authority see what the person below is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62852	I find that, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Milan Markovic accepted the amendment, which was submitted to article 31 by MP Petar Jojic. Since the committees have not spoken out, this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government accepted this amendment, the committees did not declare themselves, so the National Assembly in the voting day will declare itself. The amendment is under review, so I ask who wants the word? Nobody. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government has also accepted this amendment, and the assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 35th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the committees have not declared themselves. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62853	I'm really sorry the minister isn't here. I believe that we would persuade him to accept this amendment, because the 36th article has a title – acting on the concepts. So, we have inspection supervision on official duty and on performances. It is impossible to ask for any time-limit for inspection under official duty, but when it is provided, it is simply logical to establish some subjective and objective deadline. No one can write you a play after a year and a half – that's what happened, where you only react then. It's possible that more situations like this don't exist, that in the meantime, it's fixed, and you just have trouble going into empty space, wasting energy, money, human resources, whatever, whatever you're going out, controlling, etc. You're in an institution for days when you go to do surveillance, and you're gone because the application wasn't in place. It is simply, in my opinion, and in the opinion of Mrs Radete, who, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has submitted this amendment, we felt that the legal or natural person who addresses you may, in order to protect his rights, do so within three months of the day of his knowledge of the infringement or the threat of his right, and no later than six months from today. We assume that at least once a year you'll do that surveillance on official duty. But I guess that's just because we see it's simply from the reasoning of the law so clearly, mathematically precisely said it's impossible, because if you have 23 thousand entities to control, I don't know how long it would take you to be effective. Here, Minister, as many times as I ask, he hasn't answered once, he's avoiding that answer. It remains our fear that, in addition to your best wishes, you will be ineffective, as many subjects will be left unsupervised. That's why it's important to act on the performances, but we're afraid that your actions will be strictly per se. Then it's not real surveillance. The real surveillance is on official duty, because in this way you have warned against any irregularities and that citizens or legal persons who are interested have no reason to address the administrative inspection. Your excelling activity will, unfortunately, be based on performances and not on official duty, which is not the purpose of administrative inspection, as an inspection, we will surely agree. You have told us, in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, that the amendment is not accepted and that the proposed solution would limit the time limit on the possibility of submitting a provision, which is contrary to the purpose of the administrative inspection set out in Article 5. It's a bill of law. It's quite the opposite, but obviously we have a diametrically different view of what the inspection bodies should be doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-02-0.u62854	Three minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 36th amendment. The government also accepted this amendment, the committees did not declare themselves, so the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, and no one is answering for the word that they are using their right to search for the amendment as a applicant or as a search for the amendment on the basis of the time of the parliamentary group, this concludes the search for amendments and I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work. We continue work tomorrow at 1400 hours by searching the details of the next item of the agenda, so, the afternoon part of the session. The working afternoon of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to visit the President of the European Parliament, Jerzi Busek, so that our regular work and work of this session will continue tomorrow at 1400 hours, when we will give notice of whether we are doing a search of the details of just the point we are opening at that time or whether the rhythm will allow us to complete the next item of the agenda. Thank you to the participants at the session, thank you all for your work and pleasantly until tomorrow at 1400 hours.
