ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51187	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly in the hall of 87 MPs and that there are rules of procedure for the National Assembly. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, for a joint principled search on the 1st and 2nd agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, invited the sittings to attend and Mr. Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojčić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Vladna Jović, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Slavica Stišović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of State and Local Government, and Željko Čurguz, Senior Council of the Republic. We move to the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSATION OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENTS AND SUPPORT OF THE MINISTRATIVES (Common Main Search) Before I give word to the first speaker who has the right to speak in the order of the National MPs and to apply for a word in the joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda, I remind you of the time available to MPs: PUPS – 15 minutes for the president of the Parliament Club and the total time of the Parliament club; the minority group used the time of president and the parliamentary group has one minute; 'New Serbia' – '10 minutes of use' – 10 minutes of use and 48 seconds of work is available to the Parliament group, and the whole group of Members of Members – time used by the LDP, and the parliamentary group has five minutes at the disposal of the time of the meeting of the group – the group of the group, the group of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group, the group of the group of the group, the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the members of the group of the group of the group of the group of the members – the group of the group of members, the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the members of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of members of members of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of members of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the The first registered speaker is MP Djordje Milicevic, followed by MP Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51188	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I would like to say first of all that the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government and the proposal for a law on ministries, such as in the opening statement of this session clearly and precisely said by the head of the parliamentary cube SPS-JS, Mr Branko Ruzic, because we believe this is a huge step forward towards a systemic approach to the issue of the government that needs Serbia. We think this is a qualitative shift forward, in the sense that for the first time, it seems to me, after 2000, or perhaps even for the first time since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia, we have one systemic approach in the context – which number of ministries are needed and which areas of the ministry should cover. We want to believe that today we are talking about a proposal that will not only reflect the current political moment, but will be the basis for some future governments of the Republic of Serbia from this model, not that each government has its own approach and determines the number of ministries dependent on the political moment because, of course, it is not good. In theory, the government can also function with six, eight or 30 ministries, it is true that everything is variable, but there must be rules that the ministries must exist and, of course, it is not good to introduce a new, smaller ministry just to satisfy some kind of political option. I want to say that we were never brakers of the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have always expressed our willingness to participate in the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as part of the ruling coalition today in Serbia, but we felt that if we are to reduce the government, then we should have a concept, not to place statements on reconstruction and then there is no concrete proposal of what we really want. That's the kind of proposal we're talking about today. Also, we said that cosmetic changes are not good, but it's always a good correct and open discussion about the work of each minister, the work of each ministry individually and, when it comes to the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, we have absolutely no problem with that. We believe that every minister should take his job as a role in life and, of course, if someone is not doing well, he should be replaced. Every change within the government is the reconstruction of the government, and the political options, both parties and coalitions proposed by the ministers, and the general public and the republican parliament should assess and evaluate the work of each minister and ministry in general. As for representatives of the government who have been proposed from the work of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, of course we are always ready to account for what we have assumed responsibility for since May 2008. The work of those who are representatives of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition at this time within the government of the Republic of Serbia is, we are convinced, recognizable when it comes to the successful work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They, we are convinced, have shown that in a professional, qualified and capable way they can perform responsible functions, but also what is of paramount importance – in the general interest of Serbian citizens. We are convinced that the proposed changes we are talking about today will be, I would say, a new impulse for the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia over the next year and that the government of the Republic of Serbia will finish some of the very important jobs it has started. Of course, these changes will not affect the continuation of the successful implementation of the declared objectives and principles on which the parliamentary majority and the ruling coalition are gathered in Serbia and when it comes to European integration and when it comes to the defence of national and state-owned interests, of course the question of KIM is the issue of all issues and that this government has shown clarity, determination and principle on this issue and when it comes to strengthening the economy and social responsibility, which has at no time been questioned, and of course the continuation of a decisive, successful and continuous fight against corruption and crime. There is no doubt that Serbia and the new, refreshed team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue with what was the goal this year, obtaining a positive opinion from the European Commission on a request for EU membership and setting a date for the start of negotiations, but we also expect a new package of economic measures in the coming period to help the most vulnerable citizens of Serbia. It is not a question at this point whether someone is afraid of elections or not, but whether there are state authorities, whether the state authorities are functioning, whether they have the authority to make important decisions, because in this year Serbia expects extremely important decisions. That is why I want to make it very clear and precise once again to stress that political stability is at this point a priority, that political stability is a priority and that political stability is the basis and precondition for further successful implementation of the declared objectives and principles of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we are already talking about elections, looking at the party, looking at the coalition, to us (when I tell us, I mean the SPS coalition, the PUPS and the JS) coalition and party elections match, but at this point Serbia has other priorities and we will respect Serbia's priorities and priorities and Serbia's citizens' priorities in any case. Once again, I want to say, at the very end, that the SPS-JS MPs' club in voting day will support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51189	Seven minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Milan Lapčević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51190	The Honorable Presidency, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been taking this farce for a year and a half and distracting citizens about the reconstruction of the government. There is probably no country in Europe where in the last year the government has been reconstructed, in such a scandalous way changing the law on ministries and asking for another year of patience to end the bountiful jobs it was created for. As a reason for the reconstruction, Minister Markovic cited yesterday an increase in the efficiency and functionality of the government. In order for you to even have the right to seek support for a new story and patience for another year, you need to first file your accounts for what you did three years ago and what your results are. Let's see what this government's been doing for the past three years. In the exposé and promises, we are told that the government will provide conditions for opening 200,000 new jobs, that the growth rate of Serbia's economy and GDP will be at a level of 5-7%, that the stock market will strengthen, that the euro will be stable, that we will have billions of direct foreign investments, that pensions will be 70% of the average, that we will get 1,000 euros of free shares, that Fiat Serbia will produce 200,000 cars and export them to Russia, that the government will be socially responsible, that the fight for state integrity will continue, that young people will have better conditions for schooling, that work and life cannot wait. What is the result of your one-way policy and the absence of an alternative after three years of government? The euro from 76 dinars jumped to 105. The stock market index has fallen several times. Instead of economic growth, we have an economic downturn and a decrease in GDP by several percent compared to 2008. Foreign direct investment for three years is a total of less than 2007. The average payments were 430 euros, and today they are worth 310. Average pensions fell by 40 euros. Of the 1,000 euros free shares, we received 17 euros. We invested, as a state, hundreds of millions of euros in the Fiat factory, which instead of 4,700 workers in 2008, as it was then employed, now employs 1,200, and in November, we listened happily about how it came down from the tape twenty thousand cars, and none of them were exported to Russia. Instead of the socially responsible government, we have hundreds of thousands of people on the screen and an increasing number of those looking for food in containers. Instead of 200,000 new jobs, we have 400,000 lost existing jobs. The deficit is never higher in history and crosses more than a billion euros annually. In three years, you owe the country more than four billion euros. Serbia is never more humiliated in its history, without perspective. People cut off body parts and sell kidneys. The poor and border regions are empty because they cannot live there. Young people never leave the country more mass and go into the world. Prices are wild, the economy is on its knees, small entrepreneurs are in debt and bank mortgages up to their necks, tax collectors are harassing and draining dry wood, citizens are being listed for inability to pay off credit. The media are making reality, in the most primitive way to entertain the people, so they don't think of their torment. And now, after the fiasco of your devastating one-way policy of collapse of the state, you've remembered to rebuild the government to achieve what you haven't done in the last three years. The proposed new ministry law, which is more than scandalous, shows that after three years of the liberal-capitalist concept you decided to return us not to the 1990s, but to the feudal system, by dividing the prey by the parties. You're reducing the number of ministries, you're cutting off some, you're breaking up and you're adding to others. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny. Tell me what telecommunication has to do with culture. What does energy, electricity production, gas supply and oil derivatives have to do with the making of roads, bridges, tolls? What does mining, surface and underground spears have to do with spatial planning? Of course they have nothing to do with it, and of course everything was done on a party key – this is the spoils of a party, so we will add it to the ministries that remain in the party. Never in the history of the Serbian state has mining been separated from energy. Serbia has such a conceived energy sector that over 80% of electricity is generated from thermal power plants, by digging coal on surface spears and burning the same power generation. I ask you - who will now be in charge of thermal power plants, what is a unique system of spears and electricity production? Will it be Minister orthopedic or Minister of Traffic? Or maybe the thermal power plants will be taken care of by the collegiate of both? You, or your prime minister and minister, who explained yesterday the new concept of the ministries, call it a better organisation, more rational and more efficient, all for the benefit of the citizens. What blacker, more efficient organization, when this mild relationship has nothing to do with each other? A month ago, you started to spit among yourselves, and Junior says – Mirko is incompetent, has no authority, doesn't decide anything, the DS ministers are half-trons, they're jealous of what I do. Mirko returns that the biggest problem in the government is G17 and Mladjan Dinkic, that because of him all the problems have arisen in this country, that 400,000 people have lost their jobs because of him, that we do not have direct investments precisely because of Mladjan Dinkic and his abuse of state funds. A month didn't pass after an interview with an influential ambassador who said Serbia didn't need elections, we saw miracles, metamorphosis and the reunion of those who spit a month ago. Now all of a sudden, the turkey pick, it doesn't work, everything we've said we're gonna lick and under a new firm that's no longer a G17 but some "region" we're gonna get into a new story with the same people, with the same program, to make a more authoritative, more credible government, a government that's gonna solve all the problems in this country that she hasn't solved in three years. It's not. Gentlemen, the only problem in this country, or the biggest problem this country has, is you. You're the biggest problem in this country. Until you leave, there will be no conditions for living normally in this country. There's no more time for any reconstructions. This is pure farce and pure cosmetics. The juvie can go to juvie who's got a couple of negative grades. You have up to one negative estimate in what you promised and you haven't done, and by the results you have clean zeroes. It repeats itself for something like that. There is no room for such a thing, nor do you have the moral right to ask for a correctional exam. You must resign immediately, in order for Serbia to go to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, to get a national responsible government to try to get the country out of this crisis and to fail in which you have brought it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51191	Eight minutes and 25 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Jerkov, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51192	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the People's Parliament, anyone who listened yesterday to the debate that was being held in this assembly could have come to a few conclusions. First, there was a lot of criticism. The criticism was addressed to the ruling coalition, the government's work. Some of them were founded, some were unfounded, some agreed with many who sit in various parties in our congregation, some of whom were not believed even by those who said them, but several things are quite certain. First of all, there's room for criticism. This may sound strange when it comes from someone who is a member of the ruling coalition, however, it should be said openly. The space for criticism has, everyone is aware of it – citizens are aware of it, the government is aware of it – and I think it is the most positive fact in this whole situation, because the government is ready to correct those things that can correct and that it is ready to accept constructive criticism, understand and do what it can to make the situation, which is not easy at all, improve and change. No one is afraid to say that, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina is certainly not a party who is willing to keep quiet about it. However, it should also be said that not all that is attributed as criticism to this government is not the result of the government's poor work. Many things have been inherited from the past, some of the criticisms that have been addressed are actually the result of the economic crisis, and part of it is in this ruling coalition, in this government, and the government is going to try to correct those things that it can correct. The other thing that also comes into the eyes of anyone who listened carefully to yesterday's debate and part of today's discussion is that, although there have been many criticisms, we haven't actually heard any concrete solutions and we haven't heard any alternative. We heard a lot of empty phrases, we heard a lot of threats, we heard a lot of empty claims, but there were no serious alternatives, there were no better options, and there were no concrete solutions to the situation we were in. This League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, once again strengthens its position three years ago, when it decided to support the ruling coalition and the government run by Mirko Cvetkovic before this assembly. We, of course, were aware then that this government was not ideal. That's why we don't participate in it, which is why we only selectively support it. We're aware of that today. There are a lot of things in the government that need to be changed. Some of the changes are presented in these laws, some of them are not and we will try to change them, but just as we did three years ago, and today we are facing that terrible alternative that stands before the citizens of Serbia, aware that our five MPs have no right to question their support for this government, because everyone who is offered as an alternative today has either shown what they are capable of or the citizens of Serbia cannot possibly forget what they are capable of and cannot possibly recover from what those who were then in power, who are now offering as something new, have shown. When we talk about the concrete laws ahead of us, they certainly have room for improvement. We've offered some amendments. Of course, most of our amendments apply to the AP Vojvodina, given that our primary interest is the interest of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. When it comes to the Ministry of Finance, we have asked for a specific definition of property relations between the local self-government of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina to be placed in the power of this ministry. We have requested that this ministry, as soon as possible, make proposals for the original revenues and financing of the AP Vojvodina. We hope that the apparent reduction in the number of ministers arriving from Vojvodina in this government will not mean a shift in government policy towards Vojvodina. Here, there is Minister Dulic present, the only Minister from Vojvodina to remain in this government. It is somewhat strange to accept the fact that among the third Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina there is not one that could meet the criteria of Mirko Cvetkovic and lead one of the cabinets in the government, but that is, hopefully, the thing that will not affect the government's policy towards Vojvodina. Likewise, when it comes to the Ministry of Human Rights, we have asked, which is in line with our earlier request in this assembly, to form a committee to examine the responsibility for human rights violations. We asked it to be part of the Department of Human Rights' jurisdiction. I think this government reconstruction should just be a start to what needs to be desired results from this reconstruction and we expect this to be just the beginning of a process that will actually show the citizens of Serbia that this was in their interest. Because just attach one ministry to each other in such a way that now the new minister assumes all employees from the old ministry, the entire apparatus of the old ministry, archives, working methods, methods of work, etc. is no saving for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor is any improvement in the efficiency of the government's work. We expect a new systemization to be done in the most recent period, to make real savings, and that the government will show that it will work much more efficiently and much better in this way. Also, as the great task ahead of the new, reconstructed government of the Republic of Serbia, we see the obligation to establish responsibility for everything that has happened in its ranks, which is the thing that has contributed to its not-so-efficient work. First of all, I mean the slowness in the regulation, the sublegal acts, when it comes to European integration. We have had opportunities on the Committee on European Integration to see that many ministries do not adopt sublaws relating to European integration, for which there is no real reason. That is why we expect that the actual adoption of these laws is just the beginning of what needs to be followed and that it is just the beginning on which citizens of the Republic of Serbia will see that this reconstruction was in their interest and that it is their need. To repeat, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will vote in favour of these legal proposals. We will try to influence them with the amendments, and after the adoption of these laws, when the ruling coalition solves problems within itself, it will begin to solve the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it must never be more important within the ruling coalition than the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's how it's never been before, and it must never be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51193	Eight minutes and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and after that, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were in our discussion yesterday, criticising this proposal and at all the government's behaviour, among other things, asking why Mr Cvetkovic is not with us. Of course, today I'm going to ask a similar question, perhaps in the other direction (or to find out, in fact). We believe that Mr Dulic is absolutely, and even Milan Markovic, yesterday, not politically relevant to be legislators on this agenda point. The reasons for such a finding are multiple. Of course, in the time I have, I'll say just a few, but I have to look back at my colleague's discussion from a moment ago, who said there were a lot of phrases and criticism yesterday. Only one place today in Serbia has more phrases and criticism, or politics, which is the 2008 exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic. Of course, Mr. Dulic is not the address to which the questions from this exhibition should be asked, we will wait for the government's election to finally show up here, so we will ask him, but since yesterday Mr. Markovic was here, and today Mr. Dulic, here is why we consider them to be a complete failure for this discussion. First of all, the reconstruction of the government you've been talking about for months is not a matter of technical or formal character. This is something that has a deep political problem in the background, and the point of this story is, as far as we know in public, Mirko Cvetkovic. We personally and my colleagues in the SRS believe that he should have explained to us today the deep political reasons why the government's reconstruction, or the adoption of laws on ministries and amendments to the Government's Law, is being approached. Yesterday even, who listened carefully to the representatives of the majority, in their discussions could not recognize questions or interests of the formal-technical character. They were not interested in what methodology the ministries were joined, what is common or could be for some areas. They spoke exclusively of the political aspects of these changes, and the answers to such a thing we didn't hear yesterday from Minister Markovic, nor, I believe, will we hear today from Mr Dulic. For the SRS, Mr. Dulic, both you and Mr. Markovic had better things to do yesterday. And if he were smart in this country, if he were principled and consistent, you and Mr. Markovic would have participated yesterday in the negotiations. From what I hear, some negotiations started yesterday. We believe that these negotiations should not be in Brussels, but in Belgrade or Serbia. And there were no two more competent persons that, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the declared policy of the 2008 election campaign and your party and stories for three years now, there has been no price that you are not willing to pay to save KIM, that in the spirit of all three or four categories of "negotiations" with representatives of a national minority in the Republic of Serbia about the disaster and parent books yesterday, you and Mr Milan Markovic led. Instead of being there, you, not representatives of the Foreign Ministry, are also in the old Ministry Act and this new one that you are proposing clear obligations and responsibilities of the Foreign Ministry, and hence also their political director, which is foreign policy and maintaining the relations of the Republic of Serbia with other countries. What did we agree to yesterday, and is that consistent with the policy you've been talking about for three years since you ended the election in 2008. Your obligation yesterday was to talk about a disaster with representatives of the Albanian national minority, and the problems with the parent books were the duty and obligations of Mr Markovic. It certainly wasn't Borko Stefanovic's job. And that's definitely the point of keeping the Constitution, the law and the principles that you've promoted in the election campaign. What is also controversial, Mr. Dulic, is what Mr. Cvetkovic said in the media. And that's why you shouldn't be sitting there. He said the delegation of ministries worked by parties, imagine that statement -- to which the ministries belong. Apparently, in this country, all the property of the parties is. For you or Milan Markovic, yesterday you could have sent the presidents of all the political parties who make up the assembly majority (thank God, there are plenty of places, and if some place were to be praised, there would have been a chair from the buffet), so that all the presidents of the political parties who shared this cake would come and explain to us what the principles, techniques or rules that managed them when they ended the ministries and competencies from one to another. But the technique of forming here doesn't interest anyone. We're all interested in the political motive and background of all this. This government has not been recompensated or reconstructed as an expression of an empire, so you have recognized what the problems were for three years in your operation, so the reconstruction will allow you to do more easily in a year what you haven't done in three years. Oh, no, you don't. Yeah, right! This reconstruction is the result of ill political relations in the government and on such principles will be built and a new government, and in such an atmosphere will function, and the results of such a government will be devastating, if not more, then as devastating as the results of the government that has been in place in Serbia for three years. Now I invite you all, and you, Mr. Dulic, and all MPs of the assembly majority - read the 2008 exposés, to see where the phrases and the flossulas are, to see where the empty stories and hollow promises are. Isanalyse the state from 2008 and three years after that. It's all the world's economic crisis again for you. Nowhere to hear what your responsibility is in this whole story. And yours as a minister, and the rich and all those who make up that government of yours, both old and new. And now new energy and something new will bring old faces and old politics? That's just impossible. Imagine now, Mirko Cvetkovic will enter a development component into the Ministry of Finance! That's what he said in the means of public information. Diana Dragutinović couldn't. He's going to enter a development component into the finance ministry. Now Mirko Cvetkovic will provide an adequate system and tax policy. That's not what Diana Dragutinovic knew, he will. I'm reading from article 6, what the Ministry of Finance's obligations are. Mr Mirko Cvetkovic will now deal with these responsibilities, so he will take care of public expenditure policy, and he has established a disastrous public expenditure policy because he has managed finance in the previous government, and has now been responsible for the implementation of the budget. Then he'll take care of the public service profits. So then Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic will introduce order into the public procurement sector. We've had problems so far, he hasn't been an adequate minister, and now Mirko Cvetkovic is going to fix it. So he will improve Serbia's foreign credit relations. So Mirko Cvetkovic will fix the banking system in Serbia. Imagine, now Mirko Cvetkovic will force banks not to trade charters of values published by "His" Treasury and "His" NBS, but rather to invest in the economy and put on their feet the real sector that put the situation in the way it is. So then Mirko Cvetkovic will take better care of protecting the property of the Republic of Serbia abroad. Go only to neighbouring Croatia, after a bunch of agreements you signed with that Josipovic or I don't know who I'm with, how much the situation with the property of Serbs in Croatia has changed. So then Mirko Cvetkovic will provide adequate budgetary control and audit, prevention of money laundering, fiscal monopolies etc. Not to go to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The five sides have their jurisdiction. And now change and new energy will bring in a man sitting side by side with Dinkic for all three years and who along with him, by what criteria, shared funds from the Development Fund, dragged up here, dragged me not even know who he was there and what he was doing. Now he's going to bring news, now he's going to do in a year what Dinkic couldn't do in three years, and that's why you ran him out of the government. And now you're trying to convince us that we need to listen to your technical and formal explanations as to why the government's reconstruction is happening. You mock the citizens, mock the MPs, mock the institutions of this country. That's the main problem. If we're right, speak this government law. Isn't it the shame of the promoter that this, and yesterday it was said, enters into the government law? Not for you, Minister, or for the people of the Assembly, but for the citizens and for the public, listen to what it says in the explanation. Among other things, amending the Government Act will ensure a higher level of uniform political action. Well, even this reconstruction won't provide the highest degree of unity in the government. You're going to secure a higher level of compliance with the work of government members? This is a shame. Dear gentlemen of the government, for the SRS, those people who are not ready for what you have introduced into the law to be understood and bound by it do not deserve to be depositors in the government, janitors in the government, not to sit in the highest and most responsible functions and serve the public interest and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is this how you build authority for the Prime Minister, Prime Minister? Who is this paper binding? Any future minister from G17, DS or SPS? Is this how sick the political ambitions of individuals in the government stop? Paper? Yesterday we heard that this was all in the rules of procedure that the government was working on. So who was that making a commitment? Why would the law oblige you today? He would not commit you, nor will he be able, nor does he have any knowledge of this story. As for the SRS, respected government gentlemen, respected colleagues who will vote in favour of this misery, and what the SRS needs is a policy reconstruction. Policy is needed and people who will be nationalally conscious, political, economic and in any other sense responsible are needed. You are neither capable nor ready to offer Serbia, for ten years you confirm and prove it, and me and the SRS sincerely hope that these are breaths and that this is the last year in which you will be competent to decide anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51195	Thirteen minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51196	Since my predecessors Cedomir Jovanovic and Ivan Andric have already given a broader perspective from which we have been looking at this government reconstruction, I will listen to my LSV colleague and try to start from what might be a solution, as we have received criticism that there have been many criticisms and there has been no solution. So you shouldn't be wasting too much energy. No expectations, not with the citizens or with us here, are due to this reshuffle of the government. So this is an exaggeration. We all understand what this is all about. So that government was created that way. This coalition wasn't created by combining party programmes and then getting a good conductor to achieve these programs, but was created by that classic party feudal system where coalition agreements and quota division were made, which means how much they're going to get. When it comes to human questions, of course, parties have their own pathological way of asking their own staff, whether they're asked by tycoons, whether they're asked by some loyalty, whether they're able to conduct, whether they're listening, etc. So we couldn't get a conductor from this government, so we all know that it was this big-ass, broken-down orchestra that didn't work at all. You see, there were two approaches, which we were listening to in public, that this elaborated orchestra was being arranged at the last minute. One approach was so-called. personal approach, so the vice president of the DS assured us that Mirko Cvetkovic is sitting around day and night and analyzes the work of every minister. I, believe me, was happy, because I think that's the key. Even that number, where they lived when they say – there are 250 MPs, give 150; the great government, reduces the government. This quantitatively is the easiest thing to do, so many have celebrated themselves in that criticism. However, I was amazed that we are going so radically that we will analyse how the minister works, that there will be a question of responsibility. So let's make it 300 of those resistors if we're going to ask the question of how the minister worked. Of course, however, there is no such analysis, nor did he do it. That was one pure lie. Now, how is that done? If it couldn't already, and never will, I don't know when it will be possible to ask the question of the responsibility of individual ministers here, we've now decided that the conductor is forever gone (the conductor is the Prime Minister, I think he's a conductor), that the Prime Minister never exists again, so we've entered into the law that there is no Prime Minister, or that he's actually a minister, and then we've brought another amendment -- that vice presidents can have ministries, and now we're going to have a vice president of the government without a ministry. I seek as a solution that the finance minister is not Mr Cvetkovic, it is not too late to change it, but that he is really doing his job as far as he can, and not making this comedy, that this is the only state that has no Prime Minister, although we are parliamentary democracy, but is given to him by the largest ministry, with the greatest scope and greatest responsibility in the financial crisis. Please fix this urgently. Miss Jerkov, in order to satisfy your desire to make constructive proposals, I'm making a constructive proposal to immediately give up this combination, because that's why we abolish the Prime Minister, and it's completely inadequate for this change. Secondly, when you thought about how to make the government more efficient, what did you do? You took clean mechanics and put the departments together. It's not a smaller number when the ministries join together. That's not saving. There's no saving. None of the ministers here showed what savings are, what rationalization is there. There is no savings because the ministry's mechanical mergers and colleagues have already shown that, in a comic way, to satisfy the interests of individual parties, they are comically joined by the ministries. I have a second suggestion. You see, from the beginning, a really big government has been created. Not every jurisdiction has to be at the level of the ministry. We don't have to solve if there are any problems of religion or I don't know what, like diaspora, why there has to be a ministry. So I suggest that you do, and you can do it right now, it's not too late at all, that those ministries that aren't classical, which in most countries are not at all at the level of the ministry, we simply end it. Then we'd avoid making that butcher shop with those ministries that stayed there, so we could put them together. Should we give Mr. Dulic the mining? Well, he turned out not to run this ministry well either, and now he's added more. That butcher shop would cut itself. So, I'm proposing that the next ministry be abolished immediately, which doesn't exist anywhere. To remove the NIP (not cancelled). I'm sorry, it's attached, it says in the law that it's attached. To end the Ministry of Faith (Germany has much more faith than here). Why does the ministry need it? It should be discontinued, not attached). For diaspora – stop, do not attach. The Ministry of Sports – we are not able to have sport and youth as a special ministry. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights should also be abolished. In fact, it was offered to the Hungarians, they wouldn't accept that ministry, and now we've got nothing left and we don't know what to do with it. I suggest that certain offices be created (for example for sport, where sport will be in education, where it has always been), that for certain things such as minority and human rights be an office with the Ministry of Justice, and that the atypical ministries are simply abolished and that there are no more, which, if nothing else, we would make savings. I counted that six ministries should be abolished, no longer exist, and certain competencies should be converted into offices. And that the prime minister, the president's office, is not abolished, and that the finance minister is elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51197	The time has been used, thank you. Before I give my word to MP Srdjan Milivojevic, only to inform the Members of Parliament today that we will end the working day by the end of the debate according to the statements for the word, and after a exhausted list of speakers and all others who, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to speak in a joint principled review of the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2. When we finish working on this joint principled search, it will be the end of our working day, and 24 hours after that, a session will be scheduled tomorrow to discuss in particular the amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government and the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51198	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia there is obviously no easier, simpler, better job than being in opposition. Today, in Serbia, which is truly plagued by the great economic crisis and serious problems, the easiest thing to do is to be in opposition, to bring out salves of criticism at the expense of the government, at the expense of the ruling majority, without any responsibility, forgetting a very important and small fact, a simple matter, which is also important for political opportunities and political life in Serbia. When you look at this hall here and these people sitting in this room and we look at the political parties that exist in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a very important fact, which must not be recorded and undetected. Namely, there is no political party that is currently in this House who has not participated in the exercise of power in this country, under this or that name, in this or that coalition, but in any case, everyone has had the opportunity to try and exercise power, to show what their governments were, what was the effect of those governments they were sitting in. They had the opportunity to look at the effect of both their own and their own leaders, they had the opportunity to measure that effect, but most importantly, they had the opportunity to do so by the citizens of this country. According to some historical facts and indicators, if those representatives of the Serb people who were not very elected in parliament are also considered, the government of Mirko Marjanovic is, by some even a hundred governments in the history of the Republic of Serbia, if the time of the first Serbian uprising and the time of Milos Obrenovic's rule is also taken into account. If we take, say, the 28th October 1850 border date, when the World Andrean Assembly took place, we have an interesting fact that we can look at when we analyse these governments, which is that only four governments in this more than a hundred-year history of Serbia have made up more than three or four years. One of these was Mirko Marjanovic's first government. One of these governments chaired Radivoje Milojkovic for three years, from 17 July 1869 to 10 August 1872, and Ilija Garashanin from 9 October 1861 to 3 November 1867. At the beginning of my presentation, before I remind you a little bit of history, I want to remind you of the recent history of the year 2008, when parliamentary elections were held in Serbia. What is very important, ladies and gentlemen, is the MPs, and what I want to remind you, in these elections we have chosen between European Serbia, the European future of our country and our citizens, and more fluently. And just to remind you of the razor -- only a few percent beat the idea of European Serbia. The effect of this government is that today it is no longer a question. Today we are no longer at this historic crossroads that threatens to become our cross on which we are crucified between desires and expectations, between fears and the challenges that await us. We're not even crucified between real possibilities and needs anymore. The government, formed like this, today has support for its European commitment to support also in some opposition parties that emerged after our victory in the parliamentary elections, and also has a foothold in the ruling majority, which is seen here in parliament. It is true that we can criticize the government today for many things. I'm just going to make a brief retrospective of what you've been saying for the past two years, when it comes to the government and the number of ministries. There were no government meetings, and the government's motion to ask parliamentary questions was introduced by the institute. This is the first time you can ask her a question in the day that's scheduled to ask questions to the government. Then the government comes, and instead of asking questions, you rise up from the opposition and count how many chairs there are here and you say -- wait, whoever designed this hall didn't design it for so many ministries; why don't you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, reduce the number of ministries and the number of people involved in the work of the government? Then we told you it wasn't a topic. When we started doing that job, to cut down on the government, you said -- that's not good. And for two and a half years every last Thursday of the month, when questions are asked to the government, you asked questions about the number of ministers. As I said before, I like to read history, history books. The Royal Government on 1 October 1909, during the opening of a regular call for 1909, had the following ministries: Minister of the Council of Ministers, Minister without portfolio – Stojan Novakovic, Minister of Construction – Nikola Pasic, Minister of Education and Church Affairs, Representative of the Military Minister Ljubomir Stojanovic, Minister of Justice – Stojan Ribarac, Minister of Foreign Affairs – Milovanovic, Minister of Finance – Stojan Protic, Minister of National Economy – Jasa Zastanovic, Minister of Interior - Ljubomir Jovanovic. As this government came into existence, I will tell you from one of those same historical books: ''We, Peter, by the grace of God and the will of the people, are setting up a new government. For the president of our Council of Ministers – our Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikola Pasic'. And that's when he was doing the rounds, where people were changing. Never in its history has Serbia had 100,000 people who can do ministerial work, so that was not the case. "For our Minister of Education and Church Affairs, Andru Nikolic." I will stop by reading these ministers' names, but I will tell you what then the opposition in this same parliament, in one other, though, building, then government. He says, "What does the Minister of Education and Church Affairs have to do with anything?" Can education and church affairs come together? I can, he says, only so much if you can get baptized when you see what happens in Serbian education. Of course, we wanted to make an effective government, with a smaller number of ministries, we wanted to show you what was going on in Serbia's history and how these governments were formed, but when we read you how all these governments were formed and how all these governments were doing, and when I read to you that in more than 150 years, the long history of parliamentaryism in this country, or a hundred years, did not happen to have one government to put together a full mandate, except in the recent parliamentary history of Serbia, the government of Mirko Marjanovic, I must tell you that we intend to preserve Serbia's political stability and that we have the full mandate of this government. Of course, there's a lot of room for criticism from the government, a lot of space when it comes to not understanding some of the initiatives that citizens take. Since I represent that political party that can always come out among the citizens, I'll quote to you the words of one participant of the nine-story events. Today, 20 years since 9 March, and I congratulate the citizens of Serbia who at that time have shown an enormous amount of courage and desire to change this country better. I'm going to quote a statement from one of the nine-story events that criticises the government even though it supports it. He says – today it is simply incomprehensible that when the SPO asks for a law on restitution, no one reacts to it. When D.S. requests that the blank resignations be lifted, no one reacts to that. When they ask for the elimination of double excise gas, no one reacts to that either. However, when Europe is looking for the same thing, it reacts very quickly. Then that same man says -- you know what, he doesn't vote for you as an MP, no one in the EU, but in this country. I therefore ask the Government to respect this Parliament and the initiatives submitted by the MPs, because it is good for the development of parliamentary democracy in Serbia, but at the same time I am ordering the opposition – we have accepted many of your amendments when you wanted to fix the laws, all those amendments you submitted in order to make the law more effective, better and faster to implement, but we will never support you in the mere desire to return to power in order to create a bigger buffer in Colubara with a bigger loading shovel. We will never support you in order to question the verdict of Milorad Lukovic to the Legion. We will never support you in order to welcome the murderers of Zoran Djindjic in the cabinet of the interior minister as folk heroes. We will never support you in your intention to "safe house" the Serbian Parliament's war criminals, because that's the job we'll do by the end of our term. Whether you like it or not, we will make Serbia a regulated rule of law, where justice and justice will rule, not political interests. For how long, it depends on our willingness to pass laws quickly and efficiently, but also on your willingness to accept the given hand when we move towards Europe and the future. Because everyone who says Serbia needs a firm hand today, I'm ordering -- Serbia always, even today, needed a clean hand. We clean hands, both DS and these governments, always provide citizens of Serbia and the people who are now in opposition if they want to share with us the European values around which we are gathered in this government. I will vote in favour of this bill because I know that someone will also read the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia over a hundred years and will say -- the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was also a government that fulfilled the full mandate, but also a major part of the expectations of the country's citizens who voted in 2008 that this country is going through European integration. To those who wanted Serbia to be Russian Governor, who wanted to play the Russian anthem here, who wanted to be the rule of chaos in this country instead of rule of law, I say - these ideas will not be fought for early parliamentary elections. Here, run for quality programmes, elections will be at a time when the law says it and when political stability says it, and when there is no political will in this House to be a political majority. Until then, all who wish to impose themselves on the quality of political ideas, let them first present them to the citizens, then to this Parliament, and I tell them – we have given you our hand, we continue to give it to you, but a clean hand, not a firm hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51199	12 minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by MP Željko Tomic, and then by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51200	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, Minister Dulic is not here right now. Yesterday we had a chance to watch and listen to the other minister, Mr. Markovic. I wanted to give them a kind of confession, simply to admire their courage to come here, to sit before us MPs and look at the public of Serbia, defending indefensiblely, defending something that offends intelligence both for our peoples and for all of Serbia. We heard them think, defend, but the ice smile stays on our lips after all their observations. If we know anything, we here in Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is that we know which law will be brought down first when today's assembly majority becomes a congregation minority, and that will happen very soon. This government will fall and this law will be the first to change. Because I can't imagine any other government in the world where the Minister of Culture will deal with telecommunications. I really can't imagine Mr. Predrag Markovic selling Telecom. I understand him when he publishes books, but I wouldn't understand he's betraying some state and national interests. I can't understand the minister of infrastructure, who can't even build a 30km highway a year, which will deal with energy. I'm sorry Mr. Dulic isn't here to tell you how much it takes for an average minister to get involved 100% in his own business. Only a few months will last for this government. Can anyone really believe that someone in the world of culture will be able to deal with telecommunications at full capacity or that someone who's from the infrastructure to deal with energy in the same way? This law has, as nothing before, demystified your relationship with the citizens of Serbia. All over the world, the ministry serves its citizens. You are the only ones who combine incompatible, who combine failure with incompetence, the government and the ministry, and this shows this law, do not serve the citizens, but serve only the survival of your ridiculous coalition, and unfortunately not some strategic survival, but survival, as I said, of only a few months. If the government does not serve the citizens but to yourselves, did you not show that the citizens are here because of you instead of being citizens? With this reconstruction and this ministry law, you have shown that Serbia is your hostage. That all Serbia is suffering today because it is in your service, that Serbia is starving today so that you can extend your mandate for a few months and get out of your mandate even richer than you are today and much richer than you entered it. You buy time to spend the same time on new promises and empty stories. We heard them today. This isn't any kind of crisis, this is getting into a new and deeper crisis. There's a major problem, and everyone knows it. Why didn't you just form three ministries, so that the coalition around the SPS deals with one ministry, the ZES to the other, the G17 plus the third? And there's all the talk over. You made this reconstruction for yourselves, not for the citizens of Serbia. Because of your disagreements, because of your problems, which are causing Serbian citizens to suffer, this is happening today. You're making new bills and bills, nothing more than that. And you'll have new disputes with each other. We know the mental circuit very well, you'll have new misunderstandings and, I repeat, you're doing the reconstruction exclusively for yourself. This isn't your new beginning, this is the beginning of your end. When I see it, I can only tell you that I don't know whether to admire your enormous insolence or to be horrified by your absence of common sense. What you do not know in your haughtiness is that citizens in the countries of North Africa have also been raised for much less humiliation than what you have done with this law to the citizens of Serbia. What you're doing today is cosmetics, but the cosmetics of a dead man. This is the outgoing government, breathing out. If you think the pretty ones will go into history, it doesn't matter if you're pretty or ugly, it matters what you leave behind, how many lives you've left for this Serbia. You may be more beautiful, but you no longer exist, you go to the junkyard of history, where you belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51201	Six minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51202	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in front of the new cabinet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet, there are large, imperative, important tasks and what we call European affairs. I'd say all the jobs we started in our country are European business. Our bid to join the EU is an irreversible process. Serbia's citizens are aware of that, and the opposition is aware of that. The precondition for such important projects, and Serbia's entry into the EU is certainly a historic project, is an institutional reform of our system. It implies not only reconfiguring the rules in force in Parliament, it also implies strengthening the civil sector and strengthening the position and role of independent regulatory bodies. As parliamentarians, we have launched and opened, and in part ended one part of these affairs, especially with regard to the position of independent regulatory bodies as an irreplaceable factor in the democratisation of society, in strengthening institutions and citizens' participation in general political and social life. We have also raised the issue of the position of MPs, and in this context I view and reconfiguration, i.e. the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the holder of the executive power in our constitutional and political system. So, before the new government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and today and these days we are discussing a normative basis for the project, there are important jobs. These are, above all, the completion of major infrastructure projects. The fact that they deny what counterpart Tomic and one of the predecessors said is that by the end of the term of office of this government, we will end a significant part of the work on the Corridor 10 infrastructure project, on its northern arm, from Novi Sad to Sudotica. It is a major investment, which opens up opportunities for foreign direct investment, for new jobs and for improving the position of our population. Social dialogue, a very important component in the work of the government, in the work of trade unions and employers, which has been opened by the current Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and the work of the future ministry, is the creation of consensus and clear rules in the behaviour of employers and workers who have their own associations called trade unions. The issue of human and minority rights has been normably rounded up through adoption, I would say, perhaps even the most qualitative laws in the environment and in Europe. In front of the new government is the implementation of these legal documents, as well as the reduction and elimination of any tensions that have occurred lately, especially in the Sandzak area. What is important to say, in my opinion, is the legislative initiative of the new government. We are facing very important legislative projects that are not only a prerequisite for obtaining candidacy, but also for important reforms in terms of decentralisation. When I say that, I mean primarily the law on public property, which must be passed this year, and what is the essential prerequisite for decentralisation and regionalization that we talk about so much. Consumer protection, protection of competitiveness, state aid control, so state interventionism is reduced to the extent that exists in the more developed societies of Western Europe and the EU is also something that lies as the task of the new government, Mirko Cvetkovic. I am convinced that this normative basis, which we are discussing today, so the law on ministries and the law on amendments to the Government Act, will lay down new rules for government unity, for a more effective way of working and for individual ministries and governments in general, and that, on the other hand, speaking in the long term, this will be a message to future governments, the future parliamentary majority. I am convinced that no future parliamentary majority will be able to build a government law with more than 17 or 18 ministries. The current critics of the government model, which has 23 or 24 ministries today, are criticising the system we adopt, which is the government with 17 ministries, so with a significantly smaller number of ministries. Critics do not realise that not only we are abolishing and reducing the number of ministries, but we are also reducing the number of special organisations that exist within the framework of an executive, or executive government. Such criticism would only be reduced to a description of the opposition's affairs, but first of all, I would say it's pure demagogy and cheap pulsism. I am convinced that the new government of Mirko Cvetkovic will be an effective team, which will cost less the Serbian citizens' budget, which will have one new synergy and that we, as parliamentarians, together with the government, will take significant steps in European integration, changing the system of values in our society and deep changes in the system. So, any future government, and I'm convinced that it's going to be a government whose backbone will naturally be DS, will also have this rapper, we won't have massive governments, but with this configuration we'll always have covered all areas of social and state life. We MPs and members of the DS support the reconstruction of the government, support these two laws, and we will have opportunities to discuss and when we talk about personal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51203	The used time of the parliamentary group is six minutes and 50 seconds. The word has a People's MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's my will and desire to start this time with an analysis of the law from behind. I will begin with the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, which shall be examined in Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, which states that an emergency procedure can be used to pass a law governing issues and relations arising from circumstances that could not be predicted (I guess you couldn't control Mladjan Dinkic), and the adoption of an emergency law could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, etc. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you yourself admit that you are harmful to the lives of Serbian citizens, that you have functioned for three years at their expense and that because of this type and amount of damage today you have a law of urgency. In order not to further read this article, I will remind you just how harmful this government is, I will also remind you of the decisions made by these governments that you prescribe what the minister will eat, wear, say and agree with. If it were some democratic parliamentary practice that one minister performs three functions, none of which are in his jurisdiction or profession, that an orthopedist be a builder, that a lawyer be an industrialist and a farmer, that all other government deputies be tied to a job description that has no life experience or profession of any kind... This is where you foresaw Article 1 that the Prime Minister might be a minister. I ask you, since I don't even know who to ask, because Mr. Dulic as a representative of the government, and that he is there, he cannot give that answer – why did you not write in this bill that the president of Serbia could not be prime minister or that the president of Serbia could not interfere in the work of the government? I remind you that Boris Tadic once es-em-es changed the opinion of a minister. A description of the work Serbia's president is supposed to do has nothing to do with the government. Representatives of political parties were chosen by a rotten compromise to be ministers although they had far fewer votes in the parliamentary elections. Those who call for Serbia's choice of a European path will remind me that the ZES coalition received 1,219,436 votes in parliamentary elections and that the SRS received 1.590,200 votes. So the European path is not the European path of Serbia, as you claim. That's what simple math says. And the rotten compromises to merge incompatibly, as well as these ministries, to bring together the 1990s and the two-thousands, where you've been in power for 10 years and both, and then to accuse a coalition partner that he's guilty of today's situation is your honor, the political allies who run this country. Please, whenever you call to the 1990s, remind yourself of who you are sitting with in the government and who you have the majority in Parliament with. The SRS has been in power for less than 20 months, not two years, and you cannot honor for such a condition anything to the SRS, rather than your coalition partner. If he wasn't good, why are you with him in government today? So for 10-11 years, the DS authorities over Serbia have led to the fact that in the assembly procedure we have laws used exclusively to enrich individuals, with legal anomalies for abuse, the kind of corruption in which the greatest harm will be suffered by citizens of Serbia, not by ministers. And that you have two ministers with relatively fresh blood in the government, in which Dusan Mihajlović, Dusan Petrovic, and I don't know who else to raise and be better than existing experts, you can't convince us that you want good Serbia and that you listen to the voice of the citizens because that's what the citizens wanted three years after your authority. There were all kinds of comments here. One observed comment is that this is done to establish gender equality in the election of government members, as there will be three women in the future, and that is the basic problem in the state of Serbia. Once a minister, who's been on strike for a month, you've given another ministry to strike another month before people who've asked for a raise and better working conditions are threatened to keep their jobs, to be fired if they don't deal with the situation the way they are. And as a reward, the minister gets scientific workers, that they strike in the coming months, so that we can obey the government law to the extent that the compromise of political parties has rotted. Furthermore, it is said: "From the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal for the resolution of the Minister to the decision of the National Assembly of Ministers, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the Government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction". When was it in practice for someone to change and continue their function? When was that? What practice is this, and which minister did it? Or, now let me ask you -- why did you kick Dinkic out of the government if he didn't have this legal norm he has now, that he has to respect the decisions and that he has to discuss where Burning will open the factory, in Valjev or Negotin, and whether he agrees or not? How long do you think you rule democracy in such a way that everything will be as you say it will be, and you don't have the support of the citizens because I read you the results of the parliamentary elections? Then we all come to one conclusion, which is a rotten political compromise, to preserve power by post-poo. You don't care about the citizens. Because if you'd cared for the citizens, they wouldn't be in this situation they are in today. Not only the citizens, but also the MPs, legitimate representatives of citizens elected by citizens. The Serbian Radical Party received a number of political and parliamentary functions from its voters in the national parliament. What is the number of these MPs and representatives of the citizens in relation to the vote today, and who is to blame? For political anomaly, as my colleague Nemanja Sarovic, who was created by the European Union to threaten you, has every two months been tasked with holding the rallys to calm down as a people, so that you can achieve your goals? And finally what we all know happens is the same target, the same distance, and the same people. You, MPs, cannot change the political scene by removing seven secretaries, seven cars, seven cabinets and transferring them to another function. This bill states that the systematization of jobs will take place within 30 days and make sure that professional people remain in government and in supervisory bodies, authorities, agencies, offices, commissions, not those political fans you have put in place to maintain your voting body. I would remind you that the formation of a Union for the even regional development of Serbia has opened up quite a number of jobs and given the opportunity to a politician and a political party, with which you must not be counting even though your rock is in your shoe, to hire an army of people and thus provide yourself with a sufficient number of votes to cross the censorship. You know that very well. And if you had the means to get rid of it, if you found that solution, you'd do it. No, you're going to buy MPs, you're going to that worst market business with a people's will, and that's how you presented it to the people under a coat of democracy or a desire to get candidate status for the European Union, because that's how we're going to get funds that we haven't had at our disposal so far. It's a story that lasts 11 years. I'll remind you what you said in 2000 -- that I don't know how many billions in the country, just to get Slobodan Milosevic out of the way. It wasn't any of it. Today we have a version of making up for that minus selling public enterprises. What kind of peasant is happy that he sold the field? What do kids do after they're done? You're selling Telecom and you think someone's happy about it? To prepare next year's elections, to provide your electoral body and to stay in power, not to present the European way, because no one in Europe wants you. And the best evidence for that is Interpol's warrants -- how many arrests were made by the people on Interpol's warrant that was issued by Serbia, and how many have arrived in Serbia from that Europe. It is your best parameter as much as the European Union respects you. And don't force the story of the European Union anymore, because it no longer 'drinks water', peopleally speaking, because the EU doesn't want DS in power with this degree of corruption and this manner of behaviour. What is also very important and what must be mentioned, if you want to help this country national, patriotically, hold a business forum in Brezovica, in the municipality of Strpce, and not in Kopalnik, take this money that you provided for agencies and offices and give the people to get a job, provide the school with less cost, provide the educators with regular and normal incomes, and then go out and tell them – we are socially responsible government. You are now neither socially nor responsible, because after three years you say – this is good for the citizens. So, for three years, you've been consciously doing what is not good for the citizens, and you admit it, and you say -- under the heading of the European Union's candidacy. It is simply unacceptable and it can no longer even be tolerated, and I will remind you every time of the number of votes you have received in support of a rotten compromise to be in the positions you are in. And I ask you to take the profession more seriously, to let professional people do a job that you don't know, that orthopedics don't run the building, that the lawyer doesn't run industry and agriculture, that the information is not a bond with culture, that the tolls have nothing to do with mining, that energy is in the sphere in which it is, because that's what's perfectly normal. You don't need an EU rulebook, a coupon or any other kind of contract or answer to which you have to answer to be accepted somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a complete farce and this proposal of the government law, the changes and additions you've proposed to us, and this assembly, with the minister who's supposed to be a representative not being there, with the prime minister not being here, with the debate we have no one to lead with, and clearly speaking about your intentions to extend the government's functioning to the end of the term, to prepare the field through public enterprises for the next election and then to say, that's Europe and the citizens so wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51205	Twelve minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's MP Srdjan Mikovic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51206	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering two draft laws – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Government Act and a proposal for a law on ministries. In my opinion, these are two good billings. Among other things, the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act regulates certain things that are, as such, foreseen in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 133(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been defined to regulate the position and authority of a member of the government who resigned or who was subject to the motion for resolution by the end of the term of office, and the constitutional obligation to regulate that part is now being fulfilled. This bill provides for a higher level of government's uniform political functioning, a more coherent work by government members and a presentation of government and its policy and busy public attitudes, while certain things are better and more clearly defined. What is very important is the regulation of the situation to ensure the continued functioning and execution of tasks under the government's General Secretariat, as the government's central office, in a situation where the government's term of office comes to an end. So, in any case, there's no way that in the event of the end of the term of office, the government doesn't know who's doing the job of the secretary general, and I think that's very good. All this is defined in terms of government members' obligations, state secretaries, special organisations and government services, and in respect of respect of certain common rules, I think it contributes to the government's unique public appearance. With regard to the second law, the draft law on ministries, often during the term of office of this parliamentary assembly and the mandate of the current government heard criticism as to why we have such a large government, or why it is so numerous, and often suggested that there should be fewer ministers. I think it is good that the draft law on ministries reduces both the number of ministers and ministries and the number of special organisations, not only because of savings, but mainly because of efficiency, unity and even better work. In any case, I think that the aim of all of us should be to ensure that the tasks of the State Administration Authority are done rationally and functionally, to ensure effective and economic work and the exercise of established competences. This redecoration of the authorities of the state administration creates organisational assumptions for making decisions more effective and implementing them. I think this bill is good, and I think that especially those who have been critical of the number of ministries should support this bill so far. Finally, since we are considering these two laws in principle, I think today is the time and place to determine whether it should be passed, and it is clear to all of us that we should, the law on amendments and additions to the Government Act and the Ministry Act. With regard to concrete solutions and possible amendments to the proposed text of the law, it is an opportunity tomorrow afternoon or Friday to discuss this in more detail, and with regard to the good intentions of the congregation majority to accept good and useful proposals for the revision of each bill, I think the practice of the work of this assembly shows that any good proposal has been adopted. It was precisely during a period analysed by the European Organisation for Security and Co-operation, over an observed period of a year and a half, that even a slightly larger number of amendments were proposed by the opposition compared to the number of amendments proposed by the assembly majority. In this regard, we are at your disposal to discuss the specific solutions and the proposed amendments tomorrow afternoon and Friday, but in any case I expect not only the majority of the assembly, but also one part of the opposition to support the draft laws and I urge you to vote on the day of the vote, how our parliamentary group will do so for European Serbia, and many other MPs support these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51207	Six minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. The parliamentary group has nine minutes and 30 seconds at their disposal. After him, the word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51208	Let's take it in a row. The government, which is still current, was formed on July 7th 2008. I have in my hand the exposés of Prime Minister Cvetkovic and I will only read the most important parts, very briefly, concerning the projections that the then government and the ruling coalition had. So the key elements of the Government of Serbia's programme are the definition of Serbia's European future, not accepting the independence of AP KIM, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption and respect for international law. The government's economic goals were: dynamic growth in economic activity, employment growth, increasing Serbia's citizens' standards and balanced regional development. When you read this exposé, the appropriate word to characterize this is scandal. It's scandalous what after two and a half, we have almost three years as a real, factual state in our country. We have a continuing downturn in economic activity, duties that threaten our country and citizens to invade debt slavery if we are not already in it, under the control of the IMF. We've got a real profit drop. Although pensions have been promised to rise to 70% of the average salary, the wages will be far higher when you come to power, we now have a real drop and salary and a 40% standard during this government's term of office. We have over 200,000 employees, which is also said in this exposé, 400,000 fired. Is the scandal an adequate word for what this government has been doing for the past three years? Let someone come out and let them formulate differently. We have the next situation, if the government had been talking about some reconstruction for almost a year to make it more efficient, to start the economy, to hire... But what actually happened? In fact, it was just another marketing pole to keep the government distracting the citizens. What's the problem and what really scares me and scares me is when I hear some colleagues from the ruling coalition believe in that propaganda. Now, that's really scary. Then that propaganda worked completely, and then it exceeded the range that had propaganda during World War II, and we know from which country and people. It is amazing that someone here defends this government reconstruction continues to claim that in a better way, they will continue this policy, which is definitely wrong, which has brought Serbia to its knees, which has humiliated its own citizens, who in two and a half years has squandered everything we have created in those two Kostunica governments on an international scale, which is to be also a dignified state and to be in a dignified way, as a democratic state, but I would say a free state, we are fighting for our rights that belong to us according to international law. It's all ruined and the worst way to make fun of it. It is truly amazing that MPs of the ruling coalition dare defend such a concept and such results. We've been waiting for a proposal to reconstruct the government. Why now? Why wasn't he last year when the question was raised? I'll explain now. Because it was necessary for internal elections to pass, so parties in the ruling coalition had to organise their own internal elections first, to measure each other within the party, to see who had a foothold in their own party, so when it did, it entered this reconstruction. What happened, what happened now, and why are these ministers now being replaced? Because they didn't go to the inside elections. Mr. Skundric was replaced, Mr. Dragin was replaced, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Čiplic, Šijaković – people who do not have party functions were replaced. And who enters this government? Those who have received support in the internal elections. They don't go in the way they are, and as far as DS is concerned, he was scandalous, and those who became party officials are now entering that government. So for more than six months we've been hostage to the internal measurement of certain political officials, and only when they measured themselves and saw how strong they were in the party, then this reconstruction came on the agenda. What is most controversial, and what is really paradoxical, is that all those who do not have political functions, except one, and that is the Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. He's the prime minister without any political function, and now he's putting people with political functions in the government. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has decided to replace all ministers who have no political function except themselves, of course. It's true, let me also say on this level, when we look at and look at this thing in this way, proof of how much this government is in confusion and how much it's devoured by internal contradictions. It has even been claimed here that this is now the government that set the standard of 17 ministries and that no other future government will be able to have them anymore. What's going on in this House? What's going on with the public? Is amnesia so present in the ranks of MPs? Well, the 2004 government had 17 ministries, one president and one vice president, a total of 19 members. She had 29 deputy ministers. They're state secretaries now. And we in this current government, still current, only in five ministries – at the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Agriculture have 25 State Secretarys. The total number is 69 state secretaries. Where are your arguments? Let someone stand up after this and make an argument that this is setting a new standard in the democratic development of our society. No, gentlemen, you democratic standards set by Vojislav Kostunica will never be reached. And in a moral sense, in a political sense, it will never come to your hands what it was when he was prime minister. So the reconstruction of this government is a mockery of citizens, because the wrong path since the very beginning of this government cannot be corrected by cosmetic changes. That's why it's really good for someone in this country to apologize to the citizens first of all for such disrespect. I call on Boris Tadic to apologize, because he apologizes to everyone, but I am also aware of the fact that in the division he is in charge of an apology outside, he covers foreign policy. Therefore, I call on Prime Minister Cvetkovic to apologize to his citizens and say, "I am being manipulated by both domestic and foreign, and I am resigning; I am also sickened by this government, as the citizens of Serbia are really sick of such hypocrisy and such betrayal of the national, state and economic interests of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51209	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51210	Mrs. Komic, how much time does the SRS have left? (President: 42 minutes.) All right, thank you. It would not be good today to repeat that argument we used both in 2008 and in 2007 and in 2004 and in 2001, because I don't know why this would be better heard, understood and listened than before when it was spoken. Today we are in front of a common topic. No matter how formally we have two draft laws, we are facing the issue that the government should suffer some changes. I think the real term is "change", not these terms in the area of construction – adaptation, reconstruction, construction, etc. Now I understand why it was first started with the law on amendments and additions to the Construction and Planning Act, because the next phase after that law is these construction works with the government. And that's the main theme. I'm not going to go into those names right now, and I don't think that if an orthopedist can't be a building minister, because it doesn't stand anywhere that the minister has to be the leading expert in that area. Ministers are also elected under some political agreement and some political criteria, and of course those parties that form power and should go with their strongest personnel, according to their criteria. Now what can I object to those parties who exercise power? In fact, today we are on the subject of how to settle what is called a state administration and a hat over the state administration, as a government, so that the state can fulfill its Constitution and the law of the prescribed function. So if it's still possible to make it as cheap as possible, then success is made. I believe that this division into three different parts within the coalition government is quite burdened by this architecture of the state ministries and therefore very unpleasant things are happening, to join within the ministry something that is incompatible. It is said there as an example – sports was included in Germany's interior ministry. Well, of course, when you take a pen, he runs faster. And with us, you see, you suggested that the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora be one ministry. Here, if Sinisha Pavić listens, he can make a very nice humorous one. So it's only for those from abroad to be baptized for what's going on in Serbia. (You, as you make this government, deserve little of this humorous tone. We heard that the main interference for these construction jobs in Nemanja Mladjan Dinkic is, but I have been with Mladjan Dinkic for ten years. We're taking him there by the courts because I criticized him here in the House of Speakers. I told you all about him, so now I'm sick of talking about Mladjan Dinkic. Only when he admitted that the 1,000-euro free actions had come because of his dear president, so that he would be elected, had he become a distraction. But in 2006 and 2007, I criticized this concept of free calling, so I received a warning, so I was expelled from the Assembly. Now it turns out that only when someone talked about that fluid came up from above, so you figured out what it was about. But that's your problem. But what concerns anyone who deals with politics is that your inner problem is clouded as a flood of citizenship, over the sovereign. Now, that's the problem. The problem is how many citizens as carriers of sovereignty can create power according to their own needs and their own interests. I have to disappoint the citizens -- you can't form it, because Serbia is on the path of a one-way street to Brussels, and Brussels has no government, but it's going in a restricted direction, and that's why a little bit of a cop comes in, hit a hard road, so get us back to the intersection. And so for ten years, we've been going back to the intersection. Meanwhile, epochal media results are being achieved. There's on TV, there's on the Internet, there's on billboards, but there's no life. You say "the EU has no alternative", we live by European standards for ten years. You're getting popular because of your commitment to Europe. We are today in conflict between the SRS, on the one hand, and all other political parties that are for Europe. Europe, Europe, Europe... Europe has no alternative. It's very nice there, Brussels doesn't even have a government... But you know that there are no traffic rules in the EU in common. The English still drive the left side, you know. And they've got three holes in them. You go to England, you bring the euro, they get baptized, they don't know what currency it is. But no, you're for Europe. Two million don't have to work in Serbia, but Europe has no alternative. There isn't. And boast of something, and it is a crumb from Europe. And you say nothing. You shake your head and say nothing, we move on, we drive back to Europe. If you really wanted to show some seriousness as a government, with all these characteristics, three parts of different sizes within one government, etc., you had to show a little bit of intelligence. Here you see, Mladjan Dinkic has denied the G17 that potential voters would not cause negative associations, and I will now call the Government of the Republic of Serbia G17, because you have 17 ministries and plus something. You see, you've been fooled by Junior again. You can't do it without Junior again. But it's not the point that's younger, that's Boris, that's him, that's him. I'm having trouble with your boss -- in Brussels, in the United States, in Great Britain, in NATO. You're a piece of cake. Just to convince the citizens to live by European regulations here. What one said, you're contractors. You see, the whole government, the ministry, it's all in construction terms: reconstruction, adaptation, there's probably going to be an association, as I see it. Anything is possible with you. Anything is possible from construction works. Of course, everything will be better, and there's no answer to why it couldn't have been better in these three years. You guys have been talking here for three years about how everything's best, everything's wonderful, honey and milk. It was the one who doesn't have a mountaineer's license. As soon as Velya says "milk", he says – what you're talking about, there is milk, except it doesn't go through Moravi yet. It's not a problem with the ransom price, it's all settled. Now, when Tadic said we had something to do with the milk, he didn't come here to the Assembly for six days. You know, you're about to change that. He can't do it without Junior, and now he's gonna get us the hell younger. The uplifting demonstrations against the SPS, now the SPS – no matter what, there is no first love of forgetfulness. When you mention Milosevic to them, they will not answer. They are still pushing towards Europe and NATO. What do those from Brussels say? – Who in Serbia says it is for the EU, we respect it, we support it. - Well, you know, he's like this. - We're not interested. – There are, she says, many of us who are for the EU, we are someone from the beginning, some of us from now on. Is there a difference? Those from Brussels, which have no government, say – there is no difference, only radicals not to come to power; you have to take a one-way street, in the opposite direction. And you persistently in the opposite direction. And you think these are our officers, so for 200 dinars, let me pass. There isn't. You're in charge of the state. Give me one epochal score in ten years. One, which is why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could applaud you with two fingers. Not with his hands, only with two fingers. He's gone. But you've achieved maximum in media manipulations. The mandates belong to the parties. It came from the EU some indication, and they immediately changed their attitude. That great gentleman, he owns the office. When a few days ago one escapes him, and he says, "Who would have known that one of my people in the circuitry if it hadn't been for me?" What is this system of values? Can't you see that this violence that you demonstrate in politics is overrun and violence in the family, in the street, in the workplace? Say one epochal result. And your popularity is jumping, you know. You're very popular. Where the Ministry of Economy, the former National Bank, is held every day, two performances are held. All known actors, and those who demonstrate and those who guard the door. And those officers say, "What is it, brothers, you're half an hour late?" Two performances here every day. Unsatisfactory citizens. Find me one who's happy in Serbia. Okay, Boris Tadic. You let Boris Tadic go. Now he's going to come back with twisted eyes, and he's going to look a little different at this reality of ours. Now explain one thing to me. Why, for example, did you not join the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy? At this session, we have several agenda points that show that it is very difficult in some situations, when it comes to citizens' rights, to execute division and see where the existing and now-distributed ministries begin. It's amazing stuff. He comes out yesterday, Markovic says, "We laughed when they made the Ministry of Capital Investments, for infrastructure, etc., and we criticized it, and we came to power, so we accepted that it exists." Well, when does a man trust you with DS? That's why I accept everything with the reserve. Let's just smile like that, 'cause you're a G17 plus now. So the only one you need to take seriously is someone from abroad. You're here on their behalf. When we reach you with some argument, you say – the EU commended us, the Venice Commission gave its consent, the IMF delegation came here to observe you, you went on observation, if you are from the union rebelling, we would be very happy to do it to you, but there is the IMF, the bogeyman, we can't do it from them. Wait, the way you guys work... Turns out he's a better Milenko Deretta. When some serious argument is made, he says -- what are you rebelling about, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if it weren't for the EU and some of the help it sends, you wouldn't have a bread. You see how sincere he is to you. And you have a story – epochal success, epochal this, epochal that. That defence minister says -- great, we export the weapons, and they crack, sanctions right now. The pay phone hasn't cooled down yet, and they said: 380 tons of oil is gone, it's lost. He says, in the Army reform, we've achieved tremendously good results. And where's our army? We just have this problem with having a minister, and we don't have an army. Amazing things happen with us, and you're growing popular. Please don't forget that. Now your popularity is 129%. Citizens can't imagine a day without a ZES. They can't wait for the second diary to see the opening, the reception of delegations from abroad, the change of ties, smiles, boasting, clapping. You're the headquarters of stability. Without you, there is no stability in the Balkans and beyond. The Turk came in the other day and he's telling us about the EU. Where's his Turkey, why didn't his Turkey join the EU? Now the Turk is giving us lectures on the EU, and the Chancellor says - a multiethnic EU missed concept! That's what Cameron, the English prime minister, said two months later. I'm just telling you what they're saying. And we're going there. Well, you have a bad example. You've got a bad example. Here, when Putin comes in a few days, you tell him – Mr Putin, move over here, we want friendly relations with you, but we are going towards the EU. We're going towards the EU, there's honey and milk, there's nice, there's everything on licking, everything's getting, there's no crisis. There is no crisis in the EU. The EU is now your sponsor of the negotiations, the EU tells you in the Security Council what will happen, it is in the EU General Assembly. You citizens can rebel, you can perform every day in front of the Youth Ministry, but the EU is based on that ministry. Basically. So our problem is politics. The problem of the Republic of Serbia is that dominant policies are media-exposed policies, pro-European and innovative, devastating and harmful for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Now let me talk about whether you should have two or three or 17 ministries? You'll have as much as you agreed. You'll have the number someone in Brussels gave you consent to. But Brussels has no government, remember. Brussels doesn't have a government, hey. You are a concept to them. You're a matter of political responsibility to them. You, in all circumstances, can form a government, and for a year and a half, they can't meet to build a government. You see, Mrs. Comic, I must praise the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's a few good things. First thing, thank God, we have a government, unlike some in Europe who don't have a government, and second thing, you were much more honest than others. Some others pass the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. You gave the Bill of Ministries and wrote it – it's ours, whether you like it or not, we don't care. The EU's boss said it could do it. It'll pass. Why is this important to you? Because you're coming with this money now. All the things we've been in charge of, voting, etc. He should come now. You don't let someone with a Styrofoam spend your money just because he said he's in Europe now. You've been bleeding for Europe. He can step on you as much as he wants, but he won't come from the government because he's European. These are European standards, these are European loans, these are European applications. Don't. And you Serbian citizens, the more you vote for the ZES, the more popularity they get. And when you're gonna pay for the electricity, think about it. Then the other team will come, the re-formed ZES, and they will bring you storms, and they will say, "Now throw the bills into the barrels." And so again. So you need to remember. Thanks to ZES, the wrong movement on a one-way street, you're demonstrating something called Sisif. You're as tortured as Sisif, but from that mythical Sisif you're quite different. You know why? You're different because that Sisif guy was sweating, he was bleeding, he was going back to his starting position, and you guys got better. There's been a lot of improvement in position. You've become neither guilty nor indebted, even experts. Now, my citizens of Serbia, if you knew what an insult we are suffering here, through this main door of the National Assembly that goes through to hold a meeting, some counseling. Well, that's coming too late, because it represents the EU's views. Make-up. Yesterday, it cleaned its nose, and now it's already smart about Europe, the EU, European standards, European requirements. When you say good day to him, he tells you right away – I will not answer you, it is not according to European standards. And you're getting popular. It's amazing to see your popularity. Only, you will have the highest popularity in those villages that no longer have any citizens, because those villages where there are no citizens, that is the result of the EU here. And you, as one of your own has said, are the most ordinary contractors, who have every job to do for a simple living. Well, that's what we're different about. Stop the pro-European and najtovic path, so that we can concentrate on everything and our pecs, to start with our system of values, to clear up with this piled crime, and we'll talk about it when the proposals come who will be and where the minister is. I'm going to tell you exactly why anyone is proposed to be a minister and the tycoons are behind it, which groups and why this story is going to be told for a few more months. And remember, in a year, you will deny everything you said today. Everything you said today will be denied. It is mine to tell you in advance, and it is mine to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – as far away from the pro-European pathway as it takes us to an ambis from which we will not be able to get out easily. Thank you and thank you for not warning me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51211	20 minutes and 35 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The Right to Replica has the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51212	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this sketch would essentially not deserve some serious comment, but what I need to say, first of all, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, is that they are offended by what is said in that sketch, at their expense above all. We were sent here by Serbian citizens with their votes, to a policy that was very clear, so Serbia's path to full membership in the EU. To make fun of citizens who believe that the way to Brussels is better than those who have advocated this witty moment, I must also say a rather funny play, those who instead have advocated the way of hatred of the borders of Karlovac – Karlobag – Virovitica, calls for wars, hate, impatience, isolation and sanctions. So, if citizens decide on it, they unequivocally show who they support. Those who have represented the policy they are representing today in this parliament, as one minister said, are a statistical error in the perception of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51213	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51214	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. After these merciful words of Mrs. Hope Kolundji, I can only join Mrs. Kolundji. Mrs. Kolundjia, it's not a sketch and nothing's so funny, but you can see for yourself, to deny me, you haven't even been able to specify any epochal results. One - we have increased the number of employees, and we have promised - you cannot - you cannot - you can't - you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't - you can't. But, so I don't challenge your revolt and you say that I'm telling an empty story, here's what a gentleman met me in front of the assembly. Eight children share a piece of bread. It's the Nastic family, some community in KIM territory. Thank God, I can tell Metohija. It's forbidden there in Pristina. Mr. Nastic, I'm going to give this paper and this newspaper text to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji and she's going to deny all my words by you having three kilos of bread a day for yours, I think, 12 members of the family. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51215	First on the line, there's a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. People's MP, please take your place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51216	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have never disputed that in Serbia living hard and that there are people who fail in these times of economic crisis and transition to provide themselves with a normal life. At the same time, no one can accuse this government of showing sensitivity to such people. Unfortunately, there's a fate when everything that's happened to us in many years before this eight people share one kilo of bread. But I just want to say that I believe that even those people wouldn't trade for a policy where, following your policy, many share the same grave place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51217	Please use the right to replication as a right to replication. So, not to bring up new data because time has been used, or you remember new information, but to replicate it. Here you go. Right to Replican MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51218	Mrs. Komic, you know I know the Rules of Procedure best.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51219	I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51220	How can you not know? You know how many times you've punished me. Where can I think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51221	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51222	I can't, of course. It's just a matter of work. Mrs. Comic, a very short replica. Mrs. Kolundjia, you said that those who share one of our policies, the SRS, live in a difficult situation because they trust us, but I also have a case of 'trusting you'. I'm going to mention the name just for the sake of the situation. They are exorcising a village doctor living in a village apartment within a village health station in the village of Vranic, Dr. Nada Jovanovic Vasiljevic. She asked for help from both the City and the DS to protect her from the DS and came to court for emigration. Otherwise, she's a refugee from Republika Srpska. They spoke to you, not to you personally, but to DS. I'll give you the paperwork again. Every time you call me, I'll give you five kilos of documentation from people who write to me how difficult the situation is in Serbia, and I've never abused it. But now, whenever you start an attack on SRS policy, I'll always give you concrete examples. And remember, great Serbia is looking for a great government. I didn't attack you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51223	The People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Buh. The time available for the parliamentary group is 21 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I was convinced that the proposals of these two laws that we are discussing are really due to poor results in all areas of government work, but yesterday, when I heard the explanation of Minister Milan Markovic that they were actually proposed for an even greater degree of unity, more coherent relations, respect for the code of conduct, etc., I realized that some of the pots were mixed up somewhere. I remember very well what Mirko Cvetkovic now presented to us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 7 July 2008. Now, for the sake of the public, let's remind ourselves of some of these things. First, Serbia is a candidate for EU membership at the end of 2008 or early 2009. As far as our Serbian radicals are concerned, we don't blame you for not making this happen. On the contrary, we will wish it never to be realized. Another thing, steady growth in economic activity, employment growth, increasing Serbia's citizens' standards and more uniform regional development. It was supposed to provide everything, it turned out to be too bulky and inefficient, the government. Then, a 7% increase in GDP per year, or 30% in the government's four-year term. I can't even imagine how much growth will be in line with the Development Strategy by 2020. Two hundred thousand new jobs and a reduction in unemployment from 18.1 per cent to 11.9 per cent. The first part you've filled out, but in that sense, 200,000 people are really out of jobs. Inflation reduction to 4% by 2012. There's still time, though, but I'm afraid David Copperfield wouldn't help here either. Building a prosperous and competitive economy, which will compete equally on the world market, and in some sectors as a leader. Eliminate unnecessary jobs in the state administration and local self-government. I guess this was a lapus. Large investments in the automotive industry, electronics, information technologies and telecommunications sectors. The confirmation of this first one is probably a business with the Italian Fiat, which in the flag produces the same car as in 2007 but the people are out of work, and the confirmation of this second is the fact that this is exactly the kind of bill that the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society has disappeared. Furthermore, the improvement of the agrarian state. I guess that's where the import of milk, the sugar from the stock reserves, the buying-in prices of corn and wheat, the price of storage in silos, etc. The construction of the highway and the modernisation of the railway on Corridor 10, the start of the construction of the highway for the southern Adriatic, the start of the construction of the South Stream pipeline. If anyone knows anything about the completion of these capital projects, I'd really like to hear from you. Retiring pensions with profit growth. This is where it was probably meant for this 1% or 2% increase in January and, here, that's what happened. Pensioners just cry out for luck because of an excess of 300 dinars who obviously don't know how or where to spend it. As a cake cream came a uncompromising and non-selective fight against all forms of crime and corruption, as well as the introduction of a legal obligation for officials to make public information about the property they possess. I agree that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic will indeed be recorded in history. At first, it was the largest, therefore the most expensive, and then this kind of bill made it the smallest and probably least valuable, not to say the cheapest, but it will certainly remain remembered as the worst. So that we may not be afraid, but also those who praise her. One of them is Wolfram Mas, the German ambassador, who recently said that what the government has done so far is impressive, however, only with regard to fulfilling the procedures set out in the European Commission questionnaire. He also noted that Serbia has done a lot in the area of legislation, and we have graduated in the Purda case, but still sees weak points in the implementation of certain laws and that some of the bad rest in the past needs to be cleared up. And here we agree. We think it's about everything that's happened to us since October 5, 2000. I also can't help remembering that we missed even the possibility that the global economic crisis would be our chance to fulfill Cvetkovic's promises in the already mentioned exposé, but today, thanks to the pro-European and socially responsible government, besides Eulex at Cosmet, the Srebrenica Declaration and the Vojvodina Statute, we are facing a huge trade deficit, the fiscal deficit, the increase of public debt by an additional three billion euros, the sale of state property, excessive public spending, the absence of investments, etc. All of this, unfortunately, is the result of the way both the government is formed and the appointment of the prime minister in a management system where responsibility and important decisions are not foreseen for this function. This now, a reduction in the number of individuals or replacements in the government, is clear as a day that it cannot represent essential, but only marketing changes within the system and how the ruling coalition functions. And I'm going to remind myself that first, two months ago, it was claimed that the media invented the story of reconstruction, and yet it turned out to have something to do with reconstruction, and then here, some year before the election, that's what happened. And now, while these new ministers are ever able to get to know what their responsibility is, there will be an election campaign, so the logical question is what is being done today and what kind of legislation we have in the assembly procedure. This should now, I guess, just serve as some sort of eye blurry in things that, as the ruling majority's representatives say, are extremely bad. To return specifically to the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act. What is epochically significant is that future members of the government will be obliged to respect and carry out mandatory instructions and special duties given to them by the Prime Minister, the corresponding programme and government policy (i.e. until now they were not obliged) to express and represent, in public statements and performances in public, the views, the wonders – Governments, etc., and all for the reasons of this higher level of uniform action and more coherent work. It is interesting that, for example, when it comes to the financial means for implementing two laws, although we will now have 17 ministries, additional recombination, it is argued that it is not necessary to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. Looks like the budget rebalancing term for this one is completely lost. I started with a quote from the prime minister, and I will finish with a statement from the prime minister given a few days ago at the Kopalnik Business Forum – the government's priority in 2011 will be to increase the population's standard of living, halting unemployment growth, accelerated growth in economic activity, price stability and support for real sector development. The problem is that the statement was made on March 3rd, not April 1st. To conclude, these are not today's draft laws on ministries and government, this is an attempt to reconstruct the Titanic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51225	Seven minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Markicevic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 14 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51226	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws ahead of us, and we have found that these are cosmetic changes that will not do good to the Republic of Serbia. I will stress only one segment, which the SRS has been pointing to for years, which is that there is no Ministry of Refugees, which is necessary. We've been looking for him, however, the current government has been avoiding it here for 10-12 years. Why is this ministry necessary? Because in the total population, the refugee structure is about 12% and given the huge problems, primarily property and social ones, faced by refugees, but also internally displaced persons. When we talk about these two legislative proposals, it was necessary to have it there, and I will, on a concrete case, show what had to be done by the current government, what it did not do and what the basic objection of the SRS was. Here's a basic example of unhappiness, venison, irresponsible behavior, perhaps evil intentions. The Governing Board of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe decided in 2006 to grant the Republic of Serbia a 10m-euro loan to build refugee apartments. Between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, the 2008 treaty, which was ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia in 13.5.2009, was, in effect, in the wake of a 10m-euro envelope for the construction of 500 refugee apartments. It's been two years since ratification, five years since the decision to grant funds. What is the fate of these funds? Have those funds been withdrawn? No, they're not. Why? Here's the public of power, the irresponsible conduct of power. Refugees, internally displaced faces are located in collective centres. This is how much you care about refugees and internally displaced persons (in this case are refugees). This is a concrete example of what you're doing. I asked the question at the beginning of this year what is the fate of these funds, because I expected them to move, that it would be a political action of the current government – here we are investing, helping, etc. She's gone. The political activity was lagging behind, but the withdrawal of those funds, which may be one of the best loans Serbia has concluded in the last ten years. The finance ministry suits me as follows – an advance tranche of 2m euros has been withdrawn from the Bank's credit fund; the construction of apartments has not begun; the formal transfer of ownership over the selected salary in Lazarevec is under way, which is a prerequisite for the start of construction works, etc. For five years, this country has known about these funds, and for five years it has no power to withdraw these funds and build 500 apartments for refugees in huge social problems. Here's how this government works. Then I ask the city structures in Novi Sad and Belgrade, where there are the largest number of refugees – what did you do because the condition was to approve building plots for building apartments? I ask the current government – what did the mayors do to secure these parcels? Nothing. Here, you care so much about refugees. When the SRS and the rest of the opposition pointed to huge problems faced by a Serbian citizen in an economic, economic and social sense, you said unwarranted criticism was by the authorities. Here, I'll try concrete examples, and you in the government say it doesn't stand, to show what social status a Serb citizen is in. According to the IMF, 400,000 people lost their jobs during the crisis period – around 250,000 in the public sector and 150,000 in the gray zone. We have the lowest salary in Europe. Unmanage, say - it's an economic crisis, we couldn't, perhaps in the worst conditions we welcomed that crisis because we expected that it would pass us by, that we would only be nicked, we weren't ready, etc. Admit it and openly tell me who's to blame. This is where we have to find the culprit. Parliament and government must be accountable to the people and will be responsible. In the next election, the people will come out and make the decision they need to make, but we need to get to know the current state, because the people have no data that we have. Here's some more data. Speaking of deficits, the deficit has now reached about 120 billion since 2007 with 13 billion dinars. We have a deficit at the PIO Fund somewhere around 150 billion dinars and we're covering it from the budget, from the bank loan, etc. We have a deficit in the Health Insurance Fund of 22 billion. We have losses in the economy. It's interesting now, when we talk about business, that in 2007, we had a loss of 300m euros -- 21 billion dinars, in 2008, we had a loss of 43 billion, in 2009 95 billion and this year, according to some data from economic experts (no data yet collected), will be around 120-125 billion, meaning 1.250,000. Here's how we get state records, what we sell to settle some budget funds, to cover our budget indifference. Eight and a half billion in 2008. In 2011, 534 billion, 63-64% of the budget will be borrowed from various sources, something through credit lines, something by selling state records. The cumulative losses of public enterprises came to 4.200,000 euros. The borrowing of local self-government – in 2007 27 billion, this year will be about 70 billion dinars, or nearly 700m euros. When we mention this amount of 400,000 unemployed, we have the largest inflation in Europe in the last year, we have the lowest salary, we have the highest currency reduction in the last three and a half years of the current government's government's power, we have the lowest percentage of scientific separation, we have the lowest yield for agriculture (percentually shown, the rate according to the budget), we have blocked 55,000 legal entities, the bankruptcy is over 20,000 legal entities. We have the lowest employment rate in Europe, which in 2008 was slightly below 38%, and this year we will most likely end up at 35, maybe less than that, etc. All of this indicates that the data that we have, and you, too, are relevant, and points to the enormously difficult state of this authority in which it works. The SRS is asking you to save. We point out on a non-stop basis, on each budget, every budget rebalance we talk about – reduce costs, regulation bodies, bodies that don't mean much to us right now. Reduce the number of workers, join several agencies into one agency, join several state institutions into one, and we'll get through it. When we get out of the crisis, it'll be a lot easier. The whole world moans, tortures, saves. When we pointed out here Diana Dragutinović, exminist of finance, on these indicators and asked her for savings, she honestly said – we can only solve the deficit in two ways, one is borrowing, and the other is selling state property. Nor can we be more in debt now, because we have come to a border that has been defined by law, and secondly, we have no more infrastructure, we no longer have public and other businesses to sell so that we can settle the deficit and this huge consumption of the state. The whole world's cutting down on administration, and we're the only ones who aren't shrinking. You have a 2009 law that obliged you to cut the administration. What did you do? You've reduced maybe 10-15% of what's been drawn. You don't respect the law – that's the problem. Besides, I'll tell you some more concrete information. President Tadic says in his statements: austerity measures in state institutions will be rigorous. They're not rigorous, you don't respect President Tadic. Who do you respect? Whose orders are you following? If the president of the state says that we have to save rigorously, that applies to all state bodies. Furthermore, no one in power during the crisis should receive higher salaries. Minister Dinkic says the next day – the salary increase will follow in January, according to indices we will agree on and increase accordingly during the year. Where is the synchronization of power? You see how much you don't appreciate yourself, how can you appreciate the opposition? How can he appreciate an ordinary citizen to see such contradictory statements by the most significant state officials, the most significant leaders of individual political parties? How should we appreciate you? How do we from the opposition appreciate you when we've been telling you for years, and all we ask of you is that you save, that you be serious and responsible. No discipline, no discipline in state institutions. We point to huge problems in the public sector. What did you do? For years, you have created a privatisation strategy for the sector only to collect money, not to create quality and prudential enterprises that will be in the role of citizens and in the function of this country. And tomorrow, if it is estimated, according to certain projections and certain strategies, that these companies should be sold, let them be sold, but not destroyed, not crippled enterprises, but companies that have their place and position for which we can get adequate funds. What's the position of the SRS? This is a cosmetic change. You kicked two of your best experts out of the government, people who were extremely responsible here. Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance. You had to tell me where her mistakes were. To the last one she endured all of our criticisms, all of our regrets. She couldn't do anything, because nobody asked her anything. She left without you saying - she's guilty of this, etc. Mr. Skundric, Minister of Energy and Mining, too. He came here and to the Industry Committee, he respected everything he needed to be respected. However, this political combination, this political market has thrown them out without your obligation to say here – they leave those places for that and that. What I have listed here on the economic, economic, financial and social aspects of the problems facing the state, had to give a real analysis of the short, medium- and long-term resolution measures, measures and resolution programme of the entire social system – economic, financial, etc. But what do you need it for? We didn't get any serious strategies, except for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. However, the minister is probably why he left for making it. You shouldn't have done that either, 'cause it bothers you. As soon as he's done something, it bothers him. Here you can see the conditions in which you work and the way you work. It's not good. Serbian citizens need to know about this data. The opposition must criticise because it is a critical condition. Javashake's in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51227	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. After him, MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51228	Dear Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, as far as the New Serbia MPs and my little ones are concerned, is the first to be asked in this discussion, which, unfortunately, will be short because of the time the New Serbia Parliament Club earned in the previous elections, is a question – what is the real reason so-called. The government's reconstructions a few months before the elections? As I prepare for this session, I have sought in some books, not to tell political and historical readers, when reconstructions have been made in some other countries. At seven or eight months before a regular election deadline, almost no country in the world, which we consider democratic, was doing so. the reconstruction of the government. Then the question arises what is really the real reason for the government's current reconstruction, namely the offer given to us by the prime minister, who Sunday's "The Imprint of the Week", and someone says "the pressure of the week", was really enigmatic. We saw that he was so enigmatic, and his enigma today was confirmed by Mr Mladjan Dinkic, or yesterday, when he made a statement that he was going to ask how many questions about the G17 ministers, who are already otherwise called, his MP group, and President Tadic. That's the real reason why the government, in my opinion, couldn't function and not be guilty of what might be objectively and not guilty, of this global crisis. So, if the government had wondered if decisions had been made in the government itself, it could have eased the global crisis. Knowing a few people from the government, and maybe you'll be surprised what I'm saying as an opposition, I think (at least what I know, and I've been sitting in this Parliament for 10 years, so I know a lot) are honest people. It's not their fault when they're not wondering. It's up to you in second place. To contact the president from Japan now, the session will be interrupted momentarily and we will get a new proposal with some new ministers. Something that was the most disturbing to me personally in these days that preceded this session, and I think it's kind of a Lightmotive and symbol of how this government functioned, is that one of the former ministers and the future Prime Minister's word "moral" appeared. She endures, she told Serbia's citizens, resigning for moral reasons, because her boss is leaving the government, and since she, about how she defined herself, is one of the closest associates, and she is leaving the government. Now we see that, and I don't know what moral initiatives and what moral reasons, she will also be vice president of the government. I have to say, I'm sorry if I'm sorry some time, and I hope Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic is watching this session, was too sharp in the budget reviews and some of her proposals and decisions. That's what I was saying, perhaps in some emotional enthusiasm, and maybe because I'm a representative of an opposition party and, of course, not as professional as she is. We were not specifically explained why Diana Dragutinovic was withdrawing from the government, and I would say that she was being replaced, but something is coming to me, dear fellow MPs, that she, for the sake of the strike, said a few days ago or weeks ago that some four billion pairs might slip in and that our teachers, teachers and teachers who teach our children might be with that sum, which is not great but would save their dignity, would be satisfied and stop strike. What am I trying to say? What I'm saying is that both in the current budget and in the current business of this government, there is enough money, only it is not justly distributed. As it was called 20 or 30 years ago, those who are older know it. I claim that the money is enough, but the problem is that the current and future members of this government are mostly representatives, as socialists' comrades, large bourgeoisies, large capitalists and large capitals would say. Otherwise, if it weren't, how could it happen that in 2009, in 2009, Mr. Dulic, since you are here a representative of the government, which has been declared the most natural year in Serbia's history, increases the number of people above that poverty threshold and increases the number of hungry? So there's something wrong with it. So despite all the efforts of Mr Ljajic, he himself admitted that the number of poor people below the lower poverty threshold... So in the 21st century, gentlemen, I'm talking about people, and just now, colleagues from the SRS mentioned that people don't have bread. I have recently, unfortunately, or fortunately some here, witnessed that our healthcare professionals had not received working coats for four or five years, that in hospitals, or at the Emergency Centre in Belgrade, where I was lying, there are no basic medications. But therefore, gentlemen, there are 20m euros stolen from the money of Serbian citizens and the poor. If you think that these seven or eight months or a year until the regular elections, and still can't, it seems to me, from Đurđevdan 2011, that the one who is for deep reasons, and there are many more of you in the government, who have left and who will remain, who have spent 20m euros, so mildly, not to be warned, and the answers haven't even given what they did with those vaccines that expired on 31 October, with 20m euros, gentlemen of ministers and former ministers sitting here, many hungry mouths in Serbia could be fed. As much as you call this some naked opposition rhetoric, if it was done during the government that I supported and where I was a member, and it seems to me that even then it was done, my soul is sinful and I am deeply sorry, and most regretted, for the third time I repeat here, what I voted for the Privatisation Act, and we know well who the Privatisation Agency was then. Then the citizens of Serbia, the working class I belong to and what I am proud of and I will never give it up, I believed, Mr Dinkic, both you and Vlahovic and Djelic. I believed it was good, it was good for the workers, and that's why I voted. I've lit a hundred candles of penance in all of Serbia's monasteries, wherever I've been. That was the moment when Serbian citizens were robbed. And what is happening in Serbia now, unfortunately, I must say, the peaceful path will not be corrected, because you will not agree to it. You won't agree to what may be right now for you and the best, to call the election. What are you waiting for? Wait for Tunisia, Egypt, Cairo, Tripoli? You wait for Zagreb, eight thousand every night? How many citizens here will come out next time and who will have the right to the opposition leaders, and even the unquestionably opposition leader named Tomislav Nikolic, that I don't know how many months gives you the chance to resolve this social conflict peacefully? If I wanted to be funny and talk about ministers, when you don't already talk, who are being replaced, I don't know why you replaced Minister Dragin. If anyone was working, it's him. He unloaded sacks – both K15 and fertilizer and softs, and cattle flour and flour for human use – nonstop. What you've replaced him, I really don't understand. You've replaced Mr. Chiplic. He made a big accident with Serbia. He defied the people in the Raska region or, as some say, in Sandzak. He will have to go out and say why, did your two ministers who make up the government lose the elections for the National Bosniak Council. So, the party interest and survival of the government at the cost of state interest. And now we need the people out there to fight. I hope and pray to God, I know that both Bosniaks and Serbs are a very smart people and that they will not fall for this nonsense that you have done. As for Mr. Skundric, who everyone says was a very correct man, I can say the same. Maybe you replaced him because of the power collection. You announced on April 1st 13%, or he announced. Maybe that's why he's been replaced. In the end, since I don't have much time, about 40 more seconds, Mr. Dulic, it comes to me like this -- and how long since this one, when the Ministry of Mining is attached to him, is just now going to sell the computer? Don't be angry, but I think it's on my mind. It may not be your fault, you may have defended yourself, but you will all have to defend yourself together against much more serious accusations than those which opposition MPs here say, very quickly, from the citizens of Serbia, brought about by opposition parties or not. That's what no well-intentioned man wants his country, as I don't want. Please think carefully, put down some Durbin and the ball and start a light in Serbia and start a dialogue with the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51229	The time available for the "New Serbia" parliamentary group has been used. National MP Zoran Masic has a word, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51230	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, above all, locate my debate on the amendment of the Ministry Act. First of all, I'm going to talk about what you've done in the area of agriculture, i.e. the merger of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade. Through this kind of action, it is clear that your commitment to continue to place agriculture as a priority business branch in this country, although you are declaring yourself here and there, from the Prime Minister to certain ministers or some analysts who support you. However, in a practical sense, you are not doing anything concrete. Such a gesture by the Prime Minister and the ruling coalition to bring the Ministry of Agriculture into contact with the Ministry of Trade is just saying that you have absolutely no serious intention of turning to agriculture as a significant economic resource and that in this situation, when food is sought on the world market and the price of food has gone up to 30%, and on the other hand, this country has the resources to significantly increase food production and to increase, instead of those billions and $100,000, which have been achieved as an external trade surplus in 2010, perhaps double in a year or two days, even triple that income. You advocate to inherit the achievements and tradition of the EU. This is not in line with the European Union's view, as EU countries are just putting agriculture at the top of the pyramid, and as far as relations and financing are concerned. If, out of the EU's total budget of around 130 billion euros, about 55 billion euros is used within the framework of the common agricultural policy, it is precisely saying how much the EU takes care of agriculture itself and how much it invests in it. On the other hand, we are witnesses, and above all agricultural producers, that two and a half months ago we had here, in this building, the adoption of the budget and that through that agriculture budget, small funds have been redefined, although some have tried to explain and say that these 22 billion increases are even for some two billion dinars compared to what was in 2010. However, whether consciously or unconsciously, and I think it is aware, one fact has been denied, which was discovered last week on the Committee on Agriculture, that 3,100,000 dinars remained an unmistakable debt from last year to agricultural producers and entities receiving subsidies. If it is rejected from this 22 billion, it is then about 19 billion dinars, which will have the new minister in terms of subsidising agricultural production, which is about a billion and a half dinars less than it was in 2010. I sincerely hope that there will soon be budget rebalancing and that through rebalancing these funds will increase, but that also speaks of your relationship with this important economic operator. Furthermore, let me say that this merger cannot be explained by similar solutions in other countries. In other countries, agriculture is related, for example, to ecology. So it is in Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, with agriculture and ecology. Or rural development, which is what we end up with, like in Poland. However, in any case, there is no such binding in any EU country in fact. The explanation given, above all by the Prime Minister on one television show, to combine trade and agriculture because there will now be Republic goods reserves, which will now intervene when we have surpluses of some agricultural products on the market and that, on the other hand, when there is a deficit of these agricultural products, these products will be placed on the market, that is an explanation for small children. This function of the Republic Stock Reserve has not been properly performed in all these years, but unfortunately there is much rotten and dirty in these Republic goods reserves, which is not the power to explore. On the other hand, we have a Law on Public Storages, where this state and this government have an obligation to provide a much larger number of public warehouses where agricultural producers' goods are about to be stored and that they wait for a more favourable price on our or foreign market by stockpiling these goods. In this proposal, the commitment of the new Ministry of Agriculture and Trade is absolutely not mentioned by public warehouses, and there is no law on it, while it explains more thoroughly what the Republic Stock Reserves should do. I underline that the Republic Stock Reserves should perform certain functions in terms of the market regulation of agricultural products, but they did not and, on the contrary, neither the public nor we MPs know much in the right sense what the situation in the Republic Stock Reserves is. I'm just going to give an example, that at the end of 2009, one piece of information came in, and it was asked by the Committee on Agriculture, that, in that period, before the end of 2009, there were about 370 different businesses that owed to the Republic Stock Reserve, and these debts were moving somewhere between 10 and 15 billion dinars. That was two-thirds of the agrarian budget at the time. I don't think that's better today, and that's why I appeal, first of all, to the media, but also to the Commissioner for Public Information to try, find out and inform the public about the debt to the Republic Stock Reserve and how many businesses and how much money it is, and then to explain what the function of the Republic Stock Reserve is going to be now in the new ministry. I think this is going to be difficult for you, because I, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in the two or three convocations of the Assembly, have been trying to get information exactly about the state of the claim and it has been constantly clouded or arrived under "strictly confidential", and I don't know for whom it can be strictly confidential who and how much it owes to this country. So from this point on, and using this debate, I ask that this situation be explored a little bit more closely there and that the future function of the Republic Stock Reserves is defined in the right way. And what's short yet, considering that more of my colleagues need to talk, I mean, is to make an objection to the merger of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development and the Ministry of Education. I think it's a bad solution, especially for science in Serbia and for research institutions. The Ministry of Education has big problems, there's a lack of money. This year, a new research cycle was launched, where former Minister Djelic has finally managed to provide over five billion additional funding for scientific research. What is the certainty that these newly allocated funds will, in the right sense, be directed towards research and be used in this direction? So they won't be used to reconcile or comply with any demands that have been filed months ago by the Ministry of Education. Perhaps it was the basis for some other ministry to join the Ministry of Education, let's say, why not, the Ministry of Sports, and that science, as one significant area, remains independent and has its own budget. Here, for now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51231	Ten minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. After that, the People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz, and he is the last reported speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51232	Yesterday we heard here, respected citizens, that the government didn't lose most of it, and that's clearly true. Although there is an unusual situation, that part of that majority has lost the trust of the main one that creates the government's policy, but it is true that the government still has a majority, as is true, that we all know at what price that majority works and what the price, which we all pay together, was at the time when it is put together and how much this price is today, while this government is going on. Everyone here has been indicating that time is an irreparable resource, but it seems to me that you are being denied this very proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry and Government Act. Three SNS proposals – an exception to the Law on State Administration, which you missed, and I will also tell you why, to submit, and to amend and supplement the laws on government and ministries – the SNS in a regulated manner delivered to the Serbian Assembly on 16 December 2010, before the adoption of the budget, wishing that, as a constructive and opposition doing its job, indeed do something to be saved in such a time. However, because of the way we've been talking about this for two days, I have to remind those who have forgotten - what is the job of the opposition and what is the job of the authorities. The opposition's job is to question, check, make remarks and propose. The citizens daily judge us, the opposition, and you, as a government. The authorities, normally, estimate how they live, according to the results of whether you are legally spending money, according to reports they receive from the DRI, and according to news, when they learn that, due to lack of evidence, Janjusevic and Kolesar were released in an affair of corruption and privatisation. Whether and how you meet the need for order and law and whether liberalism is applied only to the minimal division of justice, the citizens are assessing and I do not think they are satisfied. How do they judge us, as an opposition? According to the quality of the criticism of the authorities, the clear indication of the reasons why we are so in charge, why this large number of unemployed and our public opinion is that unwarranted satisfaction is dissatisfaction with the authorities and the desire for elections to be held, and because of the irresponsible behaviour of the authorities. Citizens have a chance to hear who's talking about saving, and who's making suggestions that really mean saving. If necessary, I will repeat every time -- it is not the job of the opposition party to teach power, but it is the job of the opposition party to submit amendments and additions to the State Administration Act, which is lacking in this proposal, where we have proposed to introduce the Deputy Minister instead of the current function of the State Secretary, as a much better legal solution that is in line with the practice of a vast majority of modern states. We have heard here rare honest statements that political parties are actually state secretaries and that they now need one layer of ministerial assistants who are professionally involved in the business, but you have not limited the number of state secretaries that can be detained in the ministries, or newly accepted, i.e. by this bill. fired. The proposal that we have made, wanting to truly honestly and effectively affect the reduction of political privileges and the country that is saving and showing it concretely how it can do this, you have not allowed it to come to the agenda, and you have not tried to correct our proposals with amendments. You dug a trench - opposition on one side, power on the other. A government that thinks only of itself, which is being repacked, which is being fed to one another and which has no intention of saving any single dinar. The bill's proposals also speak, as the people said, "if he lies to a goat, the horn doesn't lie." You have on the assembly site, so compare, gentlemen of the citizens, the laws we're talking about. But why are you able to talk about this bill that you delivered as savings without trying to adopt our proposal at any moment, which limits not only the number of agencies, but also the abuse of public authority by the agencies themselves, they themselves decide to violate those rules in the process with citizens, interfering with their executive and legislative authority? You don't think the citizens are aware of that? Or do you assure us not to cost these public agencies that are set up for ad hoc work? One minute some work needs to be done, but there should be a hundred agencies on the state register. Ask the citizens if they would keep them in the house of an employed tailor, a hairdresser, a gardener, an electrician, who can be invited occasionally to do their job when they need it? You know why they don't do it, why don't we do it? Because we pay our own expenses. In a country that is willing to be in charge and that, at the expense of a difficult life, citizens think only about their own interest, personal interest or the interest of government members, there is such a government that comes out with such proposals. Proposals that continue to have ministers without portfolios, without restricting political figures within the government, where it even illegally proposes a merger in the image of the Prime Minister and the post of minister. My dear gentlemen, you don't seem to know what article 125 says. The constitution – the government is composed of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. So this Prime Minister, who is to coordinate the work of his ministers, I am very interested in how he will coordinate work with himself and with other ministers. So you're proposing unconstitutional and illegal changes in the legal text you've given. And it's not just that illegality and nonsense. You even suggest that a member of the government can act only in accordance with the government's position. You don't need legal knowledge to ask anyone here if the government's position is a written act and any form of document, so that you can call on every member of the government to stick to it. I understand that it is not clear to some officials of the Assembly. I had a chance to see for myself yesterday. In a debate on the laws concerning the extension of the deadline for the statistical report in the area of agriculture and the list, where my colleague Dr Masic explains part of what is subject to statistical coverage, which is written in the light of the law we are talking about, someone takes the right to interpret it as an exit. The discretionary right to function in the government does not exist. The minister is the minister, the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister, he co-ordinates the work between them. The government's position, the one who votes in favour and who votes against, must not be a secret. And what you've achieved in this country, that no one respects anyone anymore, that no measure, no deadline is worth respecting, that no institution has a reputation, you can't solve with one law, even when it's possible. Today we hear who he is and why he lied when he promised 1,000 euros in action, and he knew it wasn't true. Today we hear how expensive and impossible it was, and on what basis this government operates. How many deadlines have been delayed at the Fiat since the last election, wishing for new regulars, and after four years we are at the beginning. Why are you talking so much about haste and you're awfully slow? Why are you talking so much about laws and legality, and yesterday you sent us a memo saying the Prime Minister won't propose to the ministers because he thinks of this house's dignity in a way that violates the law? You have in that neoliberal way led to absurdity the meaning of every word, the meaning of which is twisted, where disorder is called order, and the violation of the law by legal conduct. In the debate on amendments under this law, I will dot you a point of view, show you how much time you've wasted on this people by not adopting SNS laws, which really mean saving, and they're not fars from saving that is proposed in your legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51233	Ten minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Time is available for four minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are we taking these days to discuss these laws? I think the answer to that question is in Article 26a of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, where for the first time in the history of our country, practically the law orders government members, i.e. Ministers, that they must publicly represent the government's views. We all know that it is Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who, in my opinion, was equally incompetent if not more than others in that incompetent government, who expressed some views that really had nothing to do with what the government was thinking. He delivered some, say, political views, where he said, above all, referring to his DS counterparts, that "Mr. Tadic did not give his best people to the government, but rather gave half-trons and incompetents, as if the government were run without authority", as if it were something new, as if Somborac had not been drawing in his cartoons and comics for two years and as if the whole of Serbia had already known it. But I don't think that was even the reason. The reason is something that has completely disappeared from the media, and it was only in one day, a statement by the G17 Plus presidency, which, in short, says that the government's decisions are not made in the government, but in the centres of power outside the government, which do not have any responsibility in front of voters. We've never heard from G17 plus what these power centers are that decide outside the government and why they didn't tell us everything that brought us into this situation. It is clear why they are not – because they have 2%, and in the whole situation it was either to choose or to stay in government in this way, which is now happening, or to go to new parliamentary elections, extraordinary ones, where, of course, they would not pass the censorship and be left without what they have for another year. What will this change bring to Serbia? Nothing. Could the highest unemployment rate in Europe possibly be changed? He won't. Will the biggest inflation be changed? He won't. Minimum wage, pensions, increased corruption, failed judicial reform... Will the strike of enlightenment stop? None of that, we'll hear it in the debate next week, it won't change. None of that's gonna change, we can be sure of that, because this government is the same. It is true that there will be fewer resolutions, fewer ministers, but everything will be divided in the same way as so far, under the existing coalition agreement. The only victim of all this is the Ministry of Energy and Mining, where one amazing thing is being done – this very important ministry is practically being torn apart, it ceases to exist and transferred to other two ministers' vaults, so now the environment and spatial planning minister will take care of the mining sector, and as the ministry has the worst results as regards the Action Plan for Serbia's EU accession. But, my God, that's why we'll probably have mines and mining companies having new Internet presentations, websites, blogs and 25,000 Euros on the site. It can be done in such a way as to improve the work of mining. This all looks like a cosmetic change to me. It's like these bills were written by some model, not serious people. But the time has passed for the deception of Serbian citizens and of model and cosmetic change in Serbia is no longer passing. It's all the same and nothing will change as long as this government is. That is why it would be best for you to accept the offer and to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-09-0.u51235	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act and the proposal for a law on ministries. That's what we do today's work. Since the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly oblige us to hold a session tomorrow, March 10th, 24 hours before the debate begins, or amendments, between the completion of the principle debate on any law, whether it is part of a joint principle debate or a special one. Tomorrow at 14.00 p.m., we open the session by searching the details, namely the debate on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 106 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are some 85 MPs in the hall, and that there are conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I remind you, too, that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, after opening a session and determining the number of MPs attending the session, the National Assembly is working on the basis of article 286. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Paragraph 1 states that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Article 2 states that an extraordinary, president, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, this right under Article 1st, 286, can also be achieved at a session of the National Assembly, orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word based on Article 286. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic has a word.
