ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62932	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs, obviously there are more of us. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62933	Dear fellow MPs, the chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, I would also like to inform this parliament, if someone has forgotten, but especially citizens that today it is five years since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens for voting in favour of this constitution. As you know, the Constitution is the highest legal act of one state and it is binding on all citizens. Especially for those who represent the citizens, or politicians, or the MPs sitting in this room. The preamble to the Constitution clearly and unequivocally states that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and thus created a commitment for all of us to fight for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. Two weeks ago, I asked a very clear question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and expressed hope that the government would respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and answer within a mandatory two week period of my parliamentary question. It said – will the moment parliamentary and particularly be called, the emphasis is on local elections, will it be as in the previous period scheduled for KIM? As I said, the question is very clear and I think it deserves a very clear and simple answer, and according to the laws of this country, and as I said to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There's no response from the government for two weeks, and that's a worrying sign for me. I don't want to believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to remain silent, and that it is in fact intending not to call the KIM parliamentary and local elections. I repeat the same question again and expect a very quick answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is already absolutely clear to all of us that the government's negotiations have had an absolute breakdown, that politics, both Europe and KIM have absolutely proved to be a policy of the deadlock, i.e. the policy that leads this country and us as citizens in the wrong direction. The situation on KIM isn't better, it's worse. Negotiations under the auspices of Eulex, which is a huge mistake of this government and these congregational majority, have entered to facilitate the lives of citizens at KIM, at least that's what's said. What do citizens face at KIM, with the implementation of the Free Movement Agreement, which implies the following things - that our citizens, our citizens, are forced to take the identity cards of the false state of Kosovo, traffic permits, driver's licenses, which are allegedly neutral? It is a great achievement of this government, the president of the Republic and the authorised negotiator, Mr. Borko Stefanovic. The question to the government is - will Borko Stefanovic be taken down? This is also one of the questions I ask, but what is most important for the government of the Republic of Serbia is – is the government ready to face reality to admit that all agreements reached are actually agreements which, now we have reached that point, heading towards recognition of the institutions of independent Kosovo? Is the government ready to end negotiations with Pristina under the auspices of EULEX at this time and return under UN auspices, i.e. to start new negotiations by respecting our own constitution, respecting Resolution 1244, respecting the UN institution, or the Security Council, and just under the auspices of that institution, to start re-negotiating negotiations with Pristina? Thus, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in violation of the Constitution, forces its citizens to take... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... I.D. of the fake state of Kosovo and all other documents. That's something a country can't afford. It's a great shame and a lie on the face of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62934	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62935	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Boris Tadic's regime has persistently ignored the abuse of Serbs at KIM. The other day, we asked the minister of justice - did the ministry do anything as competent and respond to the fact that a Shipatarian quasi court condemned Serbs from Raska who drove trucks across the territory of the Republic of Serbia to KIM? We didn't get any answers. There was a new scandal yesterday. The head of the assembly of the assembly of the municipalities of AP KiM Radovan Nicic, who is otherwise Serbian Radical and the president of the municipality of Pristina, went from Kosovo's Mitrovica to Gracanica, where he lives and immediately after the crossing of Ibra waited for him so-called. Cops, so-called. false states of Kosovo and harassed him, detained him, searched his car. There were SRS posters in the car with Vojislav Seselj and a message – we will not be in the EU. Otherwise, it is an SRS stance that today supports 54% of Serbian citizens. In the car, Radovan Nicic was also the SRS newspaper "Great Serbia", with also a message -- we will not be in the EU. All that material to Mr. Nicic, these quasi-cops took and imagined, hired a police officer to read "Great Serbia" and to inform there today some, as they say, their superiors, whether there are texts in "Great Serbia" that are opposed to so-called. the constitution of the false state of Kosovo. Of course, for Serbian radicals, Kosovo is not a state. For Serbian Radicals, Kosovo is part of Serbia and of course will find what they think is controversial for them. And yes, the highlight was that Mr. Nicic was asked to remove the SRB label from his car. It is a mark of Serbia and is owned by all car owners in Serbia. We ask Boris Tadic – how and when will he start protecting the interests of Serbs in KIM? In addition, you have a visit today by Serge Brammertz to hit you on the fingers again, because it seems you weren't good enough again, although the other day Tadic says who could believe that the fulfillment of the so-called. The Hague conditions bring Serbia to the door of the EU, we tell him – no one normally believed it, but we wonder what happened to it, since he believed it, because it was the way he spoke in public. So, we ask the representatives of the regime -- will it occur to anyone that Serž Brammerca is asking what conditions in The Hague tribunal are detained Serbs, captured Serbs? Will someone remind Serge Brammertz that Vojislav Seselj is violating his basic right to defend himself? I assume you're familiar with the fact that Vojislav Seselj has disabled communication, so-called privileged communication with his legal advisers means that Vojislav Seselj is denied the right to defend himself. He cannot prepare his defense because he does not have privileged communication with his legal advisers. Such legal terror did not occur even at the time of Joseph Broz, when Vojislav Seselj was imprisoned as a political dissident. Today in Serbia, followers of Broz's politics are silent and do not respond to daily violations of the human rights of Serbian citizens trapped in The Hague tribunal. Vojislav Seselj has successfully fought the UN tribunal for 10 years, has been able to expose them, reveal their biggest secrets, and therefore have a problem with allowing Vojislav Seselj to defend himself. He will obviously be banned, or disfellowshipped, because they have prevented him from communicating with legal advisers. The regime in Serbia is not responding, the regime in Serbia is silent, we ask how far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62936	National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62937	Dear Presidents, gentlemen of Parliament, a wonderful news has been published in the press these days, that the Minister of Agriculture has called on unemployed agronomy engineers and that 1,850 people have received a job, which were unemployed, which must have been a burden to both the social community and their families. It's something that's beautiful and commendable. Now I would ask Minister of Health Zoran Stankovic if he can or wants to do something similar with unemployed healthcare workers? If statistics are a set of exact numbers, what we know about working offices, and you know the exact number, does the number of doctors, pharmacists, dentists, nurses deserve to be taken care of and Mr. Stankovic sees and hires a play of these unemployed people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62938	National MP, Vice-President Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62939	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I ask concerns one relatively new way that everyone in the state administration, everyone in public affairs, is obliged to provide services to the citizens of Serbia. It is, in fact, an effort made by the electronic administration, the E Administration and the Digital Agenda Administration of the Government of Serbia to make it possible to make an electronic appointment for all what is required and what is the service of the state administration, regardless of whether it is the Ministry of Police, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, human and minority rights, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the protection of the environment or any other ministry. The ministers from these three ministries are asked the same question, which is why they are late to use the services provided to Serbian citizens about the electronic appointment for everything they need as a conviction, as a certificate, as evidence required by them elsewhere, which is required to provide them with one of the administrations in any of these three ministries. How much information we have available from the E Administration, the Electronic Administration Portal and the Digital Agenda Administration, everything that is needed as a condition exists, and obviously it is a small delay among those who are supposed to carry out an electronic appointment and thus make it easier for citizens, that they do not have to wait in line, that they know exactly when to reach their document, to establish a relationship of respect, respect and respect for their time. So, the hunch is that it is only about resistance to changes that are imminent and my question is addressed directly to the ministers of these three ministries, asking them to submit a report, or to give me in response the number of local self-government, departments of the ministry, popularly speaking to the counter, who are doing what they are paid for from the budget, which is to enable citizens to meet their needs in a simpler, more acceptable, humane way. I think it's a matter of great importance because on that counter that we're all talking about, in fact, the state that we all work for and for which citizens pay us to do jobs on their behalf, and to their satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62940	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy and Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, I have called for today's session to be attended by Miodrag Miljkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure and Energy and Aleksandra Potparević, Head of Legal Service at the Directorate of Civil Aviation. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON ASSESSMENT. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Bojan Mladenovic, Boris Alexic, Milan Avramović, Momir Markovic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đurić and Milan Dimitrijevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The co-workers of the minister are here, the minister will be here any minute, so I suggest we get started. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Bojan Mladenovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Article 6 states that maritime navigation security operations are administrative, inspection, technical and other professional activities laid down by this law and regulations adopted under this law providing for the safety of maritime navigation. What's the problem? The problem is in the position of the 2nd member, who says: the tasks of the 1st member's position are in charge of the Ministry of Transport, the Port Captain's Office as an area unit of the ministry, an independent state body for conducting a security investigation, the Marine Training Centre, recognised organisations and a designated body. What's the problem? The SRS considers that the tasks referred to in Article 1 should not be supervised by any independent state body to conduct a security investigation. In Serbia, we have too many agencies, offices, funds. Why do we need another independent state body? How much will this new body cost Serbian citizens? Who's going to work in it? The question arises – isn't it enough to carry it out, as you stated here, the Port Captain, the Marine Training Centre, the recognised organization, the appointed bodies? Isn't all that enough, but we need another independent body to exercise control and control? What will the Ministry's inspectors do? Why aren't the Ministry's inspectors doing these jobs? Why are you starting another independent body? The budget of the Republic of Serbia is overburdened anyway. What is more interesting, you say that this independent state body will be established by a special law. We don't have seas, we don't have seaships, we have one law, you're going to pass another law, and you're bringing another independent body, and we don't have seaships and we don't have seas right now, unfortunately, the situation is that we don't have that. It's a little bit of a law for you, so you're going to pass another law that will regulate that independent state body. It is simply amazing that, apart from the many agencies, the office of various, various unnecessary institutions, you are here today proposing that the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopt that another independent body is needed to control the tasks listed in Section 1, and I ask the question once again – why not the ministry inspectors do so? Also, when it comes to this law, you say that this law is adopted for attracting foreign investors, this is stated in an explanation. I ask the question – how and how will you attract foreign investors? You didn't bring it up here in an explanation. We agree with that fact, foreign investors are needed, you need to build your ships, but how? How will you attract them? Do I appreciate it? Is there anything else? You haven't put a single argument into it. You are also calling on this law to introduce it because it requires the EU. I ask the question – do other continental states have this law? Does Austria have it? Does the Czech Republic have one? Does Slovakia have one? Does Switzerland have one? Does Luxembourg have one? Do all continental states have this law, so we must have it, or are you just looking for an alibi from the EU? Whatever law you make, you say – here, the EU ordered. Is it true that the EU has ordered it, or is it just an alibi that you hide behind all the time? To conclude once again, I would like an answer, why does Serbia need an independent state body to exercise control and control? Why aren't the Ministry's inspectors already paid for the job? Why are you setting up another completely unnecessary body that will cost additional citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62942	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Mrkonjic is not here right now, because I wanted to commend him, to praise his visionaryism, because he is the only one who seems to know in this government that Serbs of all religions will return to the roots once and that the dream of the SRS -- a great Serbia will come true. Once the Serb Catholics and Serbs understand that religion cannot be tied to the nation, they will return to their national roots and then the carlovac-Ogulin-Carlobag-Virovica line will be realized. So Minister Mrkonjic, the only one, in addition to the SRS, knows that this will be achieved and that Serbia as such will have a sea that belongs to it in itself and that such a law will be necessary. In addition, if this is not fiction, the word and promise of Woodrow Wilson in 1917, which in his address to the people in America, says – the occupied territories of Serbia-Montenegro must be restored, and Serbia must be provided with a free and safe approach to the sea. What's not solved right now is that for a man 50 years, 20 years, half or a lifetime, a lifetime, and for humanity, for a nation, for a nation, for a country, for a world, in the ultimate line, it's just one blink. Mr. Mrkonjic, thank you for believing in the idea of the SRS, in the pursuit of the SRS, that we will finally achieve great Serbia and go out to sea. When the Committee on European Integration explains the issue of this law, one reason is to comply with EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed a few years ago that we have passed much more unsuspecting laws than this law. We passed seal protection laws and when they wanted to implement that law, Vuk Bojovic said – these two I have in the zoo I protect myself, I don't need you. We have passed laws on banning piracy on the high seas, and the Adriatic Sea is not open, not even Mediterranean, but the Atlantic Ocean is still open to sea. We banned it, just in case, from happening in Serbia's territory. After all, the two things that you mention here puts a dilemma ahead of me. He says this - after the decommissioning of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia remains without the seashore. What good is the law if we don't have a seashore? Why doesn't the government of this country make an effort not to make it a fundamental right denied to Serbia during secession and the collapse of Yugoslavia, that it has run out of sea, in some ways not to make up for it? Furthermore, what stands out as the most significant reason for the adoption of this law - in terms of the introduction of secondary sources of communal law, etc. Not that, but this next one -- the law is passed to enforce. It says – there are currently no maritime ships listed in the domestic register in the Republic of Serbia, which is, among other things, the result of overcoming legal solutions. When we were Serbia-Montenegro, we had an exit to the sea, we had ports, we had a place to register ships, and we needed the law as such. Today, if someone who has a ship is going to register it in Serbia, that's a bit of a problem. One of the questions was the protection of our sailors leaving and boarding on the side of the ships. A seaman who goes to sign a contract in which the laws of the country whose flag holds the ship, the law of the country in which the ship is registered, the law of the country whose ship is owned by a citizen. So this law, I think, is not unnecessary, I didn't say that, but it seems a little premature. Let's realize this first idea, to create great Serbia, to go out to sea that follows all the rules, according to all the standards of the international, to return what was taken from us by the law of power, and then to pass this law. Anyway, Mr. Mrkonjic, thank you for the idea and thank you for your optimism, thank you for believing our ideas, and I think that you and I will welcome that great Serbia dream to come true. It used to take centuries to run that thing, and today it's going much faster. The power of the world's gendarmes, the NATO Pact and the United States, will be gone much faster than they think and much faster than you believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62944	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Military High School, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Let me read who our guests are: Major Ilić Miloje, professor Stfanović Ljubisa, pupils Alentijev Ivan, Blagojević Aleksandar, Bojović Stefan, Vasić Rasko, Drobnjak Andirja, Djordjevic Dušan, Đukić Nenad, Živkov Mihajlo, Jeremić Strahinja, Kokić Milan, Martić Uros, Miletić Nemanja, Radovanović Milan, Radovanovic Marko, Rakić Ognjen, Petković Nikola, Ščepanović Stefan, Antić Nikola, Boškov Nikola, Krstić Aleksandar, Marić Darko, Milenković Miha, Milutinović Stefan, Miljković Miloš, Milović Duš, Šilić, Šović Dubović, Nedović, Nedović, Nedović, Nedović, Mroković, Mrožić, Petković, Petković, Petković, Stevančević, Šović Dušan, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Totić, Tokić, Tokić, Tokić, Tokić, Toktić, Toktić, Tokić, Tokić, Tokić, Tokić, Tok, Tok, Tokić, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Tok, Let's give a warm round of applause to our esteemed guests. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 18. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Avramovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment refers to a part of the law that regulates the determination of the ship's capacity to sail. I asked that this amendment delete one norm which is not bound by any international act, by any convention, not even one signed and unsigned contract, but that is how the technical rules to be applied when it comes to those conditions that meet that the determination of a ship can also be put on board. Therefore, it is clearly stated in Article 18 that you, as Minister, prescribe technical rules and deadlines for their application, that these technical rules can be applied, rules equivalent to the technical rules of recognised organisations, with deadlines for their application. What I have been looking for, which is unacceptable for the law itself, and especially for the state of Serbia, is a continuation of this article, which says "on condition that the Ministry informs the European Commission of this and receives approval for the application of these rules. "Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjić, your role as minister and as someone who needs to lay down technical rules or any equivalent that should follow the standards of the European Commission and the EU. I'll remind you that this law is about that on the agenda. If you ask the European Commission for consent to any type of approval for the application of these rules, you will be in a position to have a European Commission monopoly, which will deny you the right to look at technical rules and allow another country to have those same rights. Then you will be incapacitated to use vehicles under the Serbian flag in any sea in the world. Mr. Mrkonjic, it's a simple thing, don't ask the European Commission for any consent to the rules you're making on your own. You cannot be in progress with the European Commission and the EU if they have, under this law, the authority to give you additional consent to bring something. Then questions arise – what is the essence of the law itself? Technical rules are the basic thing to edit each vessel. Without technical rules, it cannot sail under the flag of any sea, or this Serbian from 1917, which is provided for by the peace plan, or the one you plan to use in international waters. What is very important is that technical rules cannot be prescribed by the European Commission, because this law does not oblige you to do so. You cannot leave the monopoly to the larger Member States and these international waters and territorial waters, because they all behave according to their own rules, their laws, not according to the laws of the country whose ship the flag drives, which is what only this law says. So I ask you to accept this amendment, so that we will not be blackmailed by the European Commission on any basis, so that they do not give us color, length, height, weight and that what you prescribe, which is mandatory for a vessel flying under the Serbian flag, is the norm that will be accepted in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62946	Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Arsen Djuric and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Shami, Arsen Đurić and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 179th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, since there are no more amendments, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62947	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you for your suggestions and discussions on the proposal for a law on maritime navigation. Most of the discussions on this bill were aimed at improving the text of the law. Let me tell you right now, of the 27 amendments, 11 have been adopted. It's something more common. Maybe we'll adopt some more after what you've brought here today. The reasons for the adoption of maritime navigation laws are reflected, above all, in raising the level of protection of the rights of Serbian citizens working in the capacity of seamen on foreign seaships, then, together with the planned law on state ownership and entry of vessels, creating a legislative framework that will attract foreign shipowners to enter parts of their fleet into one of the Serb registers of maritime ships, as well as the introduction of appropriate sources of EU law into domestic legislation, thus achieving full compliance of the Republic of Serbia's legislative system with EU law in the field of maritime traffic. In this connection, 24 EU directives and regulations are implemented in domestic legislation, as well as provisions of the most significant international conventions adopted under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation and the International Labour Organisation. I would like to point out that the interest of the Republic of Serbia in participating in maritime transport can best be seen if there is evidence that 90% of trade goods between the EU and other countries are transported by seaboats, as well as that 3-5% of EU GDP is created in the framework of the maritime economy. Also, maritime shipping has a particularly significant place in the economy of each country, including continental ones, especially because of its foreign exchange rent, given that maritime shipping is the largest part of its business activity on the world maritime market, which makes it so known. invisible exports, which undoubtedly contributes significantly to the reduction of external trade balance deficits. This is one of the reasons why today are continental countries, such as The Republic of Slovakia developed a naval fleet of 16 maritime merchant ships, the SR Austria fleet of 17 ocean tankers and ships, the Czech Republic of 15 maritime vessels for various purposes etc. Furthermore, maritime shipping contributes to the employment of labour, which is particularly important for the Republic of Serbia, which today gives more than 5,000 sailors. The adoption of this law gives the Republic of Serbia a great opportunity to develop this branch, transport in particular, given the production potential of the car factory "Fiat" in Kragujevac, which will place its products in remote markets as well as the capacities of Serbian shipyards, given that nine out of ten Serbian shipyards today produce extremely high-quality troops, via ocean and maritime ships and that their capacities are filled in for the next two to four years, which represents exceptional comparative advantages and benefits for attracting large world shipowners, to enroll part of their fleet in one of the Serbian registers of maritime ships. I thank you again for your participation in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62948	Thank you, Mr. Minister. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, after we have carried out a search of the proposal both in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We are moving to the 6th point of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Obligacion and Fundamental Rights of the National MPs together: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, together: Zlata Djerić, Miroslava Pošanić, Miljanović, Žaljan Žaljanović, Mirović, Miražanović, Miražanović, Miražić, Mirović, Miražić, Miražić, Mirović and Mirović. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Before we move on to the details, i.e. the amendments, allow the honourable MPs to inform you that the students of the European Business School "Milutin Milanković" in Belgrade, who are currently following part of our today's session from the large hall gallery, here with us, are: Nemanja Pavlovic, Stefan Protic, Tamara Marinković, Jovan Popović, Branko Stevanović, Petar Šušnar, Kosta Stojanović, Mina Milivojevic, Uros Tedosijević, Nikola Rajković, Stefan Dukić, Saša Jovanovic, Luka Živković, Aleksandar Kuzmanovic, Tatjana Vidović, Tanja Bogdanović, Tadej Vučković, Andrija Djordjevic, Nenad Kijatović, Marko Petrović, Stefan Ristić, Andrej Vasstić, Milostić, Milos Kozarski, Nemanja Judjanjović and Milos Stanju Stajčić. Please welcome them with applause. The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62949	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected students of the school, who bears the name of one of the largest Serbian builders "Milutin Ivanovic", bond relations and fundamental property-legal relations in air traffic in the Republic of Serbia, were governed by the 1998 Air Traffic Act. However, since the law was passed, significant changes have occurred in some of the institutions governed by this law in the European aviation market. When the Republic of Serbia concluded in 2006, with the European Community an agreement on the enlargement of the common European aviation area, it joined in harmonising our rights with European regulations, regulations and instructions and providing conditions for the application of single European standards in the area of security of air navigation security, but also in other areas of civil aviation. The opening of the domestic air services market for EU carriers and the creation of favourable market opportunities for domestic air carriers, within the framework of the common European aviation area, are also one of the benefits that is full of the application of this law, the agreement should be adopted. Within the framework of the common European market, air services should also be governed by common rules, as regards the protection of passenger rights, the protection of users, in particular protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility. This also requires increased responsibility, both for air carriers and transport organisers and other transport participants for the full application of European achievements. In this respect, the creation of a new law on bonding relations and the basis of its own legal relations in air traffic was approached in line with the Montreal Convention and with relevant European regulations in the area. One of the first requirements to be met through this law, which is another in a series of laws of the European Agenda, is the effective application of the Convention on the unification of certain rules for international air transport, the Montreal Convention, which was confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 13 May 2009, which provides for greater protection of the interests of transport users and sets out new higher liability limits in the event of death or injury to passengers in the event of delays of transport, i.e. delays of damage and destruction of luggage and things and the basis for fair compensation is established. This law takes over, alongside the Republic of Serbia, the European regulations governing the right of passengers to deny, board, cancel flights and delayed flights. The responsibility of air carriers to passengers and their luggage, the rights of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility in air transport, shall be determined by the authority responsible for the enforcement of those regulations and shall provide for fair, transparent and appropriate sanctions for infringement of their provisions. The law also contains provisions on the obligations arising in air traffic on the transport of passengers and luggage, on the transport of things, on the pursuit of other commercial activities, on the lease of aircraft, on the liability for the damage caused by third parties on the ground in flight, on the provision of insurance and reassurance of provisions on their legal relations with aircraft, property and liability of aviation rights, provisions on the enforcement and security of aircraft and freight law, as well as the jurisdiction of courts for disputes with international markings. The proposed material solutions will ensure full application of European standards on consumer protection and provide a positive assessment of the European Commission, and progress in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62950	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62951	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, neither this law on air traffic obligations in Serbia nor air traffic law solves two fundamental issues relating to air traffic control in Serbia, property relations from this area in Serbia, and most importantly, does not answer one of the most dangerous issues that have just been included in this single European sky, or euro control. I will remind you that when we talked about the Air Traffic Act, I mentioned the fabs that are being prepared for us and the three are fabas, one of which will be imposed on the state of Serbia. It seems that the worst one is the variant, I remind you, please the camera if it can catch this, one of the fans predicts the control of the sky over the former Austro-Hungarian, without Romania and with part of Italy. In that case, without Serbia and Macedonia, it would be down there. The second predicts Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Kosovo, as they continue to be the great friends of Serbs from the EU that you are chiefly seeking from the authorities, predicting Kosovo to an independent state and Macedonia. It is precisely this fab that is being prepared for us and is likely to be adopted, the worst variant for Serbia. Why? The headquarters will be in Belgrade, but each of the countries will give two, Montenegro two, one of which is likely to be Albanian, Albania two, Kosovo two and Macedonia two, one of which is likely to be Albanian. Not likely, but even certain, because 45%, 46%, 47% of the authorities in Macedonia are held by Albanians. We will come to a situation where the Cypriots in the middle of Belgrade decide on both money and security and everything else, and the seat will be as in Belgrade. In this unique sky, three questions remain absolutely open. The sustainability of the theory is that states survive as basic subjects of national and collective security in the situation of the single European sky, in the situation of control of the European sky and in this case Serbia not only lost the sea in Yugoslavia's collapse, but we will lose the sky this time. Unlike some, this time the sky will be taken from us. Nationally privatised and unsustainable security entities with transnational capital, because whoever gives money will determine the conditions and rules of conduct and music for the game we will have to play. The illogical nature of the air navigation security market and the national security compliments. The question is how much national security we can do in that case, because, Mr. Minister, let me remind you, from that air traffic law we shut down the military component and we shut down something else, we don't know who's flying over our heads. We know that civilian traffic can be controlled in flight control, it can also be seen in the Directorate for sure which of our civilian aircraft is flying over our heads, but we don't have a military. On the other hand, we don't have our military component. However, it is that we have both military planes and are ready to take off. They flew 20 days ago, when the pittoms ended up at the Military Academy, both Miga flew over their heads, but that doesn't mean that they'll mostly be Minister Sutanovac, and that most of it will be someone who destroys the country's defence systems and that we'll be in a position to strengthen our defense systems, and so will the Air Force. At the time, it was a unique flight control agency, both civil and military. There's no such thing today. I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Corporated national air traffic management systems are ready to privatise and enter a European competition through a strategic concept -- a single European sky. Cheers. How many pieces of this cake will it belong to Serbia in this case? Even if this plan is adopted, the money will then be poured into Kosovo, etc. How much will we be able to measure ourselves with large flight controls that are in the environment and which are in Europe and a little wider, so before we come into the situation that the Flight Control Agency, led by the man I've been talking about, is the third term, and I warn the authorities that this man will eventually destroy flight control, and in doing so, become a huge asset? It's always been pushed aside. We've come into a situation where doctors of science, two years before retirement, are being removed from that flight control today. It's a case of Nikola Hotshot, academic, science doctor. After his engagement, she stopped the need. Four interns were brought to his post. Let me tell you, it's two hours ago because of the power outage, because someone couldn't turn on the aggregate because they had primary power from the power grid, secondary to the aggregates, one to the other, two hours 80 planes flew over Serbia, and the flight control agency had no idea where those planes were. The most professional flight controller with all world permits, Momir Ostojic, also, thanks to co-operation with the military component when it was excluded, removed it from the service. The incredible money is pouring together. The state of Serbia does not have a single dinar of it. Let me tell you that it goes to 2,400 flights, you must know that, in certain days a day, over the territory controlled by flight control. The minimum price is between 300 and 1,000 dollars, depending on the length. Other countries, especially Germany, and many others, have found ways to invest that money in the economy, so in one law, when we were discussing why they don't make a repeater, why don't they build a radar, so they make the highway and use that money, because if they don't use it, they're coming back to that very Eurocontrol. On the other hand, I asked this amendment to replace the 100th point with a comma and to add the words "the regulations and the approvals of the competent authorities". Article 1 of this Article would read: "The service provider must carry out orders to the service provider resulting from the provisions of the contract in accordance with the purpose of the aircraft and regulations and the approval of the competent authorities". Why? Service providers may not be bound only by orders unless these orders comply with the rules of the competent authorities of this country. I received a reply that the amendment cannot be accepted since in this case it is a matter of providing services from the contract on other commercial transactions, etc. Mr. Minister, I think you might have adopted this amendment. I assume you're a busy man and I assume these services have worked. I think after this argument, you might accept this amendment. If I had a little depression, I'd ask you a question. You as a neimar, as a man who's been on the site for a lifetime, when the first brick is installed he already has a vision of what the object will look like. Tell me, please, how did the Beška Bridge cost 50 million with these payments still looking for Alpin and the Sava Bridge nine times more? My mind can't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62952	Eight minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62953	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment to Article 106 refers to the maintenance of aircraft and the costs during the duration of the contract. I asked for Section 2 to be deleted, which says that the tenant does not bear the costs of maintenance of the aircraft needed to remove the hidden lack of aircraft that existed at the time when the aircraft was handed over to him for use, nor does he bear the costs of the damage caused by the loss of aircraft due to the operation of more force. What is both important and clear is that technically and any other deficiencies in the takeover of aircraft, in any sense of the word, cannot exist at all. That's why we didn't want to, Mr. Mrkonjic, respect that practice we had before and write an amendment to the amendment, because you would refuse that amendment, and then the same text of your ministry would propose and adopt. Then it wouldn't be the form of an improved legal proposal as we wanted it, because it doesn't continue in continuity with the other members of the law itself. I remind you that we have also submitted 40 amendments to the Air Traffic Act, actually 60, of which 40 have been accepted by the Ministry of the same amendment, our refusal and thus entered into the text of the law. This time, we asked most of the amendments, the attitudes and the members of this bill to be deleted, to get the opportunity to explain to you why it should be done. Therefore, in Article 106, an absolute tenant shall not bear the costs or should bear the costs if the maintenance of the aircraft and the removal of the hidden defect occurs. We don't want this to happen at all when we take over the aircraft, when the tenant takes it to himself for the benefit of use and thus reduce the possibility and increase the degree of security that any shortages can't be the subject of the debate after the lease. That's why there shouldn't be any costs, but security should be at the highest level. That is why you need to delete this item.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62954	I apologize to MP Momir Markovic, he participated in the debate under the amendment to Article 100, and in order he submitted the amendment to Article 101, and has the right to speak. So, an amendment to article 101 submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62955	The law must be concise, clear, brief, summed up, and not leave any dilemma, that we do not have to after the sublegal acts to explain what the writer was going to say. Article 101(1) is quite sufficient and says: "The service provider is responsible for the damage suffered by the service provider and the execution of the contract and the execution of other commercial activities in air traffic by the person who directly provides the service by his order or by his account". We asked for attitude 2 to be deleted as absolutely unnecessary, because it says: "The contract of attitude 1 cannot exclude liability for damage that willfully or with extreme negligence by a person who, by order and for the account of the service provider, directly provides that service". You've told us everything. Does this correspondence, unnecessary correspondence, and the spread of members of the law move someone or something to do with new attitudes? I see no reason for the laws to be as thick as this book, nor do I see the reason that the laws, especially the laws that should be applied, will be applied tomorrow, that is, after eight days, that is, by the law, by going out in the Official Messenger, to spread like this. As far as bonding relations are concerned, how can it happen that, in the bonding relations in air traffic, partners are equal and one can be a little more equal? How can this happen in a country that believes that its legislation has been regulated maximum? Now that we're coordinating it with the EU that we'll never get into, because you can see for yourself that it's starting to fall apart, the question of Greece has been detained and now the question of Italy, Spain, Portugal is opening up, so that when these people introduce us to Europe, there will be nothing of it, and we'll be there alone again, so I ask you -- how can one entity in bonding relations in air traffic, for the sake of God's unpaid bills, take part of another subject? How could it have happened that Flight Control was taking flight school at the JAT class? Who in this country has allowed such a robbery and such kidnapping? I can't believe the kind of man you put up with in that place, Mr. Grouch. I've warned this man last time and the incredible money spilling away in all sorts of ways. Please do something to regulate things in this area that is very important, one of the most important areas in air traffic? Maybe Mr. Dacic should also send his service and check the books there, because the data we have is saying it's an incredible crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62956	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62957	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is obviously about the lack of understanding of this legal area, because the proposal for this amendment overlooks the fact that contracts concluded and in air traffic are the most common access contracts, i.e. type contracts, where the service provider usually makes such contracts in those contracts to protect his interests and not to worry too much about the interests of the other party. That's how it is with all type contracts where insurance organisations, banks, monopoly organizations are on one side, which, it's no secret that they have a monopoly in the area they're carrying out. As a result, Article 1(1) states that the service provider is responsible for the damage suffered by the service provider in the execution of the contract for other commercial activities in air traffic by the person who, by his order and at his expense, directly provided the service. Why is the position of the 2nd member? So that such an obligation would not be excluded by such a type of contract. Therefore, if there were no such attitude 2 by type of contract, the service provider could exclude that responsibility, the other contracting party would have no choice but to sign such a type contract or not to sign. That's what they're called. the access contracts and the other Contracting Party shall not allow any possibility to modify those contracts. This is just to protect the weaker side of that contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62958	One minute and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, six minutes and 10 seconds you have. (Momir Markovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You have six minutes as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62959	Then I'll use it. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the more reason I asked the laws to be concise, to be a member in two sentences and to be able to understand everyone. On the other hand, I think if this is given to us, that it's necessary to at least read, so if the gentleman wanted to criticise my amendment, then he should have read these two attitudes. The first attitude absolutely rules out the second. "The service provider shall be responsible for the damage to the service provider and for the execution of the contract and for other commercial transactions shall be applied by the person who, by his order and for his account, directly provides the service." This is the second point: "The contract cannot exclude liability for damage which, on purpose or ultimately, causes a person who, by order and for the account of the service provider, directly provides a service". Absolutely unnecessary second attitude. Please, gentlemen, when you criticize something, when you explain something, when you praise something, at least read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62960	A minute and 10 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Nikola Savic has submitted an amendment and has requested that the 107th member be deleted, because the explanation is more than clear, that an aircraft that has a navigation permit should not have such deficiencies. So we're talking about what damage and what responsibility the tenant has, due to the lack, whose aircraft is unusable or reduces its usability for contractual or usual use and the lack existed at the time of handover of the aircraft to the tenant. Therefore, the extension of the amendment to Article 106. Mr. Mrkonjic, what is very important, because the law itself has defined it, that it is not trying in any way, especially not on a small door, to mutilate and legalize something that a non-professional Nikola Stankov, or an incompetent person, mutilates what his personal fault is, I will remind you that this lawlessness entered the Air Traffic Act when the Constitutional Court ruled that it was an illegal, actually illegally formed DOO company or whatever you want, a limited-responsibility society, when a flight control agency was formed. So, the Constitutional Court of this country has made a decision that an illegal flight control agency has been formed. Five months later, there was a legal way of entering and forming the agency, as it appeared in the draft air traffic law. So, in this way, the creation of the Aviation Control Agency, where the owner of Serbia-Montenegro, and the director of the unfortunate, unprofessional Nikola Stankov, we had a debate and unfortunately the amendment was not then accepted. If he had been accepted then, such examples would no longer have happened. So we can't let the kind of corruption that enables new members and unprofessional ones, to allow the budgets to be filled by individuals because it's going to narrow down. Make one simple parallel. If Mr. Stankov gives the aircraft to use or rent to one of his colleagues and that colleague gives the aircraft to someone else, the third person for use, and everyone takes the percentage of the use, why would any of the tenants pay compensation for any kind of business. Take experience from the previous period that has shown over time that you should have accepted amendments to the SRS and removed unprofessional and incompetent people from the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62962	Two minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask all MPs to focus on Article 106 and to speak on the subject of the agenda, as the obligations arise also to the MPs who participate in the session and the chairman, to remind the Members of Parliament. Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62963	Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed an amendment requiring the erasure of Section 2 in Article 108. This attitude, as well as a member, speaks of the charter of the plane. We suggested erasing this attitude for the reason we believe it is understood that whoever purchases or leases a particular aircraft, before signing the contract, will in any event check its correctness. It is subsequently difficult to determine whether there was a hidden flaw, which is spoken of in this attitude and this article, whether this hidden defect existed earlier, when it appeared, and not to say how impossible it is to determine whether the owner knew about the existence of this defect, whether he deliberately covered it up or who knows what it was. I also draw attention to that so-called. The European standards discussed here do not recognise this term – a hidden deficit – on planes. In this law we are discussing a situation where we have a completely unsettled situation in the area, we have an airport where there is not a single room where passengers can fly, from large world companies interested in privatising our air carrier, we have come to a situation where only the Lithuanians are interested in its privatisation, the best pilots are going abroad, and this company has been the source of major affairs in recent years. The biggest culprit for this situation is the Government of the Republic of Serbia that adopts the business programme there, appoints directors, appoints members and the Supervisory and Management Board. I'm saying this for the very reason that these people will be the most responsible for the implementation of this law, especially when it comes to this lease, the chartering of aircraft, the renting of planes. I remind you of the fact that up until recently, the airport director had a salary of 380 thousand dinars, which was 4,700 euros at the time. In one month, the director of marketing received a salary in the name of stimulating and paying a million and 32,000 dinars, respectively, 12,900 euros. The budget inspection dealt with the operations of the two companies, and found that the airport's director paid $380,000 in salary in February 2008 alone paid for the 338,000 dinars, converted into euro – 8,900 euros. In March, April, June, July and August of the following year, a total of 1,519,323 dinars were paid, almost 19,000 euros, I repeat, with a monthly salary of 4,700 euros, and some workers in the company had a salary of 14,000 dinars. Milutin Mrkonjic: In what company? ) (President: Without direct communication, Ministers, please, prohibit the Rules of Procedure, and I ask the MP to remind himself of the topics of the agenda. That's exactly what I want to do. So, in June 2008, corporate management, this is important because corporate management remains the same, the director of Bojan Kristo has been replaced, the director of the airport, and company management remains the same, he will enforce this law. In one month, in June, they paid for their 413,103 dinar stimulation, in September for another 400,000 dinars, a total of 10,100 euros in the name of stimulation. And that was little to them, so at the end of the year, they took a loan from a company of 60,000 dinars, so that the poor could take their winters. In total, for the first 10 months of 2008, this management honored itself with a boost of more than 101,000 euros. The commercial director paid 3,000 euros, eventually paid the airport's commercial director 11,412 dinars to buy school textbooks. The commercial director is still in that position. For the first 10 months, instead of the estimated 38,098,110 dinars, 44,411,433 dinars were spent on employees' salaries, after the course, when the euro was around 80 dinars, that is more than 80,000 euros than planned. Otherwise, these two companies were to be controlled by the Management and Supervisory Committee. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not set up at the time the supervisory board of this company, and members of the board of directors who were supposed to take care of the domestic behaviour of these two companies did not do so because they themselves had astronomical salaries. The chairman of the Management Board had a salary of 190,834 dinars, i.e. 2,300 euros per month, and eight members of the Management Board who remain mostly members of the Management Board of 152,667 dinars, i.e. 1,900 euros per month. They all had 600 euros, 50,000 dinars each month for fuel, cafes and restaurants. These are the results of the budget inspection. I would like to remind you that 800,000 euros were planned for the renovation of that happy "vip" salon, and two million euros were spent, that images estimated at 7,000 euros were paid to 37,000 euros, a trosed was paid to 15, chairs were paid to 10,000 euros, carpets of 5,000 euros, ficus of 370 euros, jars of several hundred euros. Now we have a situation, while some workers who care about passenger safety, who, among other things, will care about the implementation of these two laws, watch how to survive, because they receive a salary of about 20,000 dinars a month, and in the paper we read so former director in New Belgrade, thinks of Bojan Krishta, buys three apartments of the total surface... (President: National MP, I warn you to expose four minutes and 30 seconds without any touching points with the topic of the agenda. It is my duty to warn you, and then to make sure that I remind you that you have an obligation to respect the subject of the agenda. Please bring in everything you present in connection with the amendment you have proposed. Here's the connection. Thank you. I wonder in front of you and the citizens of Serbia whether the manager who runs the company, who paid his salary in 10 months, will pay itself 100 000 euros in stimulation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62964	People's MP, you've just been warned. If you think the warning only serves to be heard without you paying attention, I now give you a second warning, and then there goes the wording of the warning measure. Please, about the agenda theme. You don't want to? Thank you. It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62965	The chairman, my exposure does not have that weight, since you have already warned the MP to speak about the subject on the agenda today. Today, the debate is on the agenda in detail on the draft law on bonding and fundamental property-legal relations in air traffic. It really has nothing to do with what the People's Messenger was saying about the subject. I understand that the opposition is preparing for the next election and that perhaps 10-15% of its time on such specific topics is dedicated to day-to-day policy issues. It was just a moment ago, when the predecessor spoke, that they didn't understand too much about the specifics of this topic. I didn't want to answer about this point. This was about a dispositive provision. When a dispositive provision does not have such a restriction, it can be turned into a negativity for the other Contracting Party in some way. That's why this restriction was necessary. I say, I'm back on topic, trying to get back on topic. This is a very important law of law in the area of bond relations, along with the Law on Liabilities, one of the most important laws. Indeed, we are needlessly destroying the congregation’s reputation when, not only are we not prepared to discuss the law properly, but we are talking about topics that are not on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62966	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62967	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Mrkonjic, you have been brought into one situation because of the fact that the Brussels administration has asked you to deal with a law that you know very well, although you are not a lawyer, you are an engineer, a builder, that it is meaningless and superfluous, but obviously it is not in Serbia, because it should be interpreted in one regulated country which in its legal system, there are a lot of lawyers here, from Mr. Martinović, who is a lecturer at the Faculty of Law, through excellent lawyers, who spend their entire life dealing with the area of bonds, therefore, the system law on bonding relations, and that is what Janko mentioned earlier, and type contracts, so everything is regulated by this one system law. Now, Mr Mrkonjic, since you have the area of traffic, the area of engineering and everything, we can expect that in this storm, in which the Serbian government leads Serbia to join the EU, which is against which the SRS is, and we see, according to this petition that we have launched, we will not enter the EU, and most of the citizens of Serbia, that you will come here through time with the basis of the laws on bonding relations and property-leg relations in the area of passenger transport, freight transport, that we do not move on. But that's pointless. Since we already have this law on the agenda and when you are asked by mentors from Brussels, who kidnap KIM, break down and bring down the full destruction of rights in Serbia, I will specifically say what is wrong with this member and, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to delete this fourth position. When they wanted to, and I know it's not exactly your ministry, you'll admit, the idea maker of this law, because after signing an agreement on so-called. The free sky, which Serbia is using, these are the laws both BiH and Montenegro and all countries in the environment, simple type-laws and, according to a colleague, with type-contracts. There's a lot missing here, and that's why we tried to erase this item 4 in Article 109, as it's usually the title of my amendment, to tell you and to warn you of the shortcomings, and the government said that it was regulated by some other members of the law, when it comes to compensation for the damages in the area of the lease. It can happen in any economic area, everywhere it's different. The lease of the hotel is one thing, the lease of the airships to another, the lease, like I said, of the transport vehicles to the third thing. But with the lease of aircraft, that's what all the experts in this area, the top lawyers who only deal with, insurance companies, various licensed agencies, there are strict contracts for the lease of aircraft. It's not just a lease, but there are, and you know, differences. That's how there's a contract to rent and lease a plane, so-called "vet leaf" with some kind of ACMA base. The experts already know that. There's a contract to rent and lease aircraft, so ad hoc short-term lease contracts, that's for these charter flights. The buy-and-sale contract, it's new used planes, engines, depending on what equipment is in it. A lease agreement with the possibility of buying that same plane. So it's all different, and it's all a lease. In the end, the contract on the financial lease of the plane. So to avoid danger, because all these contracts aren't typical, but they're different, they're typical of this particular, which have their name and international name, as I read it here, then you need to delete this position 4, as the SRS suggested. When God forbids this damage and all that he foresees in his previous views, Article 109, that, as we have addressed it, the tenant undertakes that during the duration of the lease, he is responsible for all the damage he has suffered. This duration of the lease, as you can see, can be periodic and can be with another intention. He can be, here, this contract, that's the one that's the longest, about the financial lease and the lease of a plane with the possibility of buying. So, he's gradually paying off. These are all the things that the proposer had to take care of because they are very ticky, so we don't have to, because JAT, you know, because of the complete inability of his very weak fleet, you know that JAT is missing at least 10 planes, and the type "Boing" or "Airbus" depends on what's going to happen in the future, and it takes half a billion dollars, it has to lease, especially to make arrangements with various companies from the world because of these ad hoc leases or charter flights, because that's what tourist agencies require, these big tour operators. They demand, after all, our sports societies, all those who go somewhere, and our diaspora, when something happens, that's the way to react. I think you should have accepted, no matter what you've given the reason that it's regulated to other members of the law, but let those other members of the law and the basic law on bonding relations regulate exactly the specific situation, because, again, I'm going to finish it, it's not always the same lease, but it has different ways and these contracts are very specific. That is why we have proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62968	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to giving up a contract allowing airship repairs, the cost of which is borne by the tenant, lasting or projected to last longer than the duration of the lease contract or the purpose of the conclusion of the contract, the tenant may, by written declaration, give up the lease contract. What we wanted to change in this article is that the tenant has the right to seek the return of a proportional portion of the paid rent during which he was prevented from using the aircraft, whether he gave up the contract or not. So, Mr. Mrkonjic, if we continue to explain the amendments to the members of 106 and 107 that an aircraft that has no inadequacy within itself cannot be leased, this position of Article 110 is absolutely unnecessary. In order to reduce the risks and increase safety, no one in any written statement should give up the contract, because it cannot even conclude it if the aircraft is not 100% correct. That's why we're going to get out of this, to tell the colothes and the situation of corruption and crime on the lease. I don't know how to paint better for you, but you yourself said in part four that it refers to a member of the 158th execution and security procedure, where you allow for forced execution and security and you limit where it can happen. How you'll have to do something if he has concluded the contract or if, in an independent statement, he broke the contract, because he's looking for claims for the aircraft he's leased, incorrect. So it can't happen. Members of 106 and 107 clearly defined what kind of aircraft it was meant to be. If you accept amendments to the SRS, you will have a lower law for less than 30 members. The European Commission and EU directives are unnecessarily laid down in this law that should not apply to us at all, even by looking at the point of legal basis how all other bond laws are governed. When damage is done, you know how to handle it. He who has done damage should bear also the consequences of responsibility and bear the cost of compensation for the removal of damages, not the one who has purchased it. I sell you the wrong car, and when you looked at it, you said – okay, I want to buy it, but it's your fault that you bought the wrong car. In this case, where civilians are transported, where people are transported, where there is a restriction that an aircraft is excluded from forced collection, such as a fireman or a state aircraft, that must not happen. That is why you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62970	It's been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62971	Mr. Minister, here's a member of the law who, if adopted, will open a small door for large corruption in law enforcement. That's why we asked for article 112 to be deleted. In Article 112, you say "the reward for finding and saving the chartered aircraft during the duration of the lease contract belongs to the tenant". Who's in charge of the search and rescue in natural disasters, plane crashes, avalanches, etc.? State. Why would someone who's the owner of the plane betray the tenant of the plane and have the tenant do a shoot, search, rescue, and receive a reward from the state? He who is nearer to the fire, he warms up faster. Since some of the agencies, some of the institutions are much closer to this area than others, we're going to be in a situation where one of the directors, let's say, fly control, rent a plane and go on a search and rescue right where his flight controllers lost it. Then the Directorate, since the state through the Directorate is paying off these awards, will be forced to pay the reward to the person who indirectly did the damage because he found where he lost it. Or, even worse, rent a plane at a certain price, you're able to do it and achieve an enormous reward for this. Therefore, if you delete this, because searching and saving is not something to reward, it is the obligation of all citizens of Serbia to meet at a certain point in place. We therefore believe from the SRS that this member of the law should be deleted and that the law will be more applicable and much less likely for abuse of both this law and much more in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62972	Fifty seconds has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this member refers to the possibility that the tenant could rent an aircraft, which is a unique example in Serbia's practice only in this law. I'm going to ask you openly – can you take the rental car for a while and you can rent it? Can you enter as a tenant in a residential facility and you rent it? Can you use a business space of any purpose, pay a business space fee and then work a sublet, you rent it at any other price? So what does article 114 predict? Just corruption, nothing else. Whoever wants to take the boat, they'll take it right away. Why would he take from the tenant as a sublet? Does Stanko need five planes to rent to his friends from the Air Force Academy, and he needs to be a tenant, to be nice to everyone? On what basis in Article 114 and in which directive does it say that it must be? How do you legalize what fills the pockets of individuals? Where does that say? Take the examples I gave you. I'll give you an open example. Did the Directorate use SIV III business space as a state institution? Where's the directorate today, where's the building and who's he paying the rent to? Does he now have the right to rent SIV III, to fill St. Mary's pockets, to take him out of debt for the building across from Customs, and he had his own rooms? Isn't that open corruption? How much is this lease? Who's the directorate paying that lease to? Which doesn't pay the state for SIV III, which is not a full budget of the state, but an estimate, a commission. You made it possible by this law. As far as I can do that, I'm going to give in to some criminal law right now and I'm going to go to trial and I'm going to be responsible for it. Who's in control of the directorate? Is he in control, is he responsible for the work of the Directorate? Who needs this article 114 than they do. Finally, simple thing, check out who uses the rooms across from Customs and check out who uses the rooms in SIV III and you'll understand. It's your best example that corruption in this law has as much space as you want. Delete that, if we already have a parole that the government is fighting corruption. Here's proof of how he fights. In all possible ways, you untie the hands of those who have the opportunity to deal with corruption, not professional issues. One U.S. firm lobbyed through the US embassy to make Nikola Stankov director of the Directorate because he was buying second-rate equipment. Because of this second-class equipment, we spent two hours without monitoring the air sky above Serbia. Imagine how much hawarry could have happened. We're still paying for the handiwork that happened in the old Yugoslavia and you know it best. Delete this member and deal with this corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62974	One minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62975	Therefore, Article 116 provides for a contract for a specified time or for a specific hour in which we have requested that item 2 be deleted, because responsibility for the damage exists over and over again, not just while the aircraft is operating. So it's a shame. Whether the aircraft was in place or in flight, the damage was done, so it was done. It says here responsibility - for the damage caused by the use of aircraft in flight, for a particular flight, begins from the moment the engine starts. So you admit here that the damage can't be caused without starting the engine. How many vehicles on the runway, in fact, turned over by the wind, how burned it was because of oil leaks, how many haemariums occurred and how much that air vehicle disrupted the other aircraft next to it because it did damage without engine ignition. Well, that's too bad. You know what an incident is and what an accent is. That looks good on you in the law. You must respect that, after all, and it is a directive of both the EU and the European Commission and the law that has been given to you for use and for copying, but you have not translated it well, you have not copied it well, so you do not know what is less damage and what is greater. And we're telling you, it's a shame that the radio engine didn't work on the plane when the passengers were on the plane and the passengers weren't on the plane, the damage was on the plane. That is why you should accept this amendment, because the responsibility from receiving to surrender cannot be a responsibility. So, the responsibility is either taken as a whole or not taken. This cutting into small pieces of renting is proof that we were both right in previous amendments and previous members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62976	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62977	It says in Article 117. — if air traffic insurance is excluded from the damages that occurred indirectly or directly due to the lack of aircraft affecting safe air traffic and the insurance company knew or had to know with longer attention and did not prevent the occurrence of the damage even though it could. Item 2 similar, bet 3 similar. We asked for article 117 to be deleted, for a simple reason. An aircraft that has a navigational license is correct and cannot have hidden or hidden deficiencies that can affect navigation. A plane or flies or doesn't fly, if it flies, then it's on the runway ready to be loaded, ready for the passengers to enter and go to the destination, and if it doesn't fly, then it goes to the hangar and then from JAT techniques they take everything to get it into a sailing and in the right condition. The whole member, it's absolutely unnecessary, because it's impossible to understand, common sense can't understand that a plane that has shortages can get on the runway to take passengers, take goods and move on. Therefore, this member really needs to be deleted, because I'm afraid that one or another member doesn't produce in the brains of some other people, some other idea, and then he comes into a situation to rent a plane, so he's looking for and saving passengers or goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62979	To make it clear to the citizens, and to all MPs who are willing, if at all, to participate in the debate. It says – the subsequent application of the provisions of other regulations, meaning I am undermining other rules, to everything that has not been done with regard to the air traffic insurance contract, is in accordance with the provisions of the law governing mandatory traffic insurance. I ask you, Mr. Minister, and the lawyers who appear on the line, what is the law? If we had written here in 118, it would have changed and said, if we had added the law to it, you wouldn't have accepted it or accepted it as an amendment to the government, and ours wouldn't. Then we'd have that situation to repeat the same text. We're asking, by what law are you going to regulate this? What is the area that will regulate this, what is this law? Here, put it there, so you know how to answer later. I'm asking all the lawyers to report for a simple answer. So, I'll repeat, the mandatory traffic insurance law is regulated, by what law? The logical question, the law itself has remained inconclusive and the law itself has left failures to use laws that have even a ambiguous word or buckle that can be applied to air traffic. That's what deficiency is, and that's what's missing, and that's what needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee did not declare itself, so the National Assembly will declare itself on this amendment in the voting day. The amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s Parliament of the Verica Radeta, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62981	Obligation and property legal relations in air traffic can be fully regulated under the law on bond relations that covers all areas and does not suffer "lex specialis" and therefore this article of the 119th bill is bad, so the whole law is bad and the concept of the law and what is hidden behind this law is that you will create a legal basis for privatisation by Western countries, privatisation of flight control, and thus privatising the control of the sky above Serbia, which is disastrously very harmful. You wrote in the light of this law that all the legal bases of the EU were the basis for the adoption of this law, and that is also what the SRS, with every law, reminds the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you are somehow the most similar Ministers to distract you, as a man who himself says in public that the old socialist, from the time of Sloba Milosevic, which we certainly welcome, and you are somehow the most similar to being distracted, to get rid of more of these so-called. Pro-European laws. They are all very harmful to the citizens of Serbia, for each citizen individually, for Serbian national interests and for the state of Serbia. It would be better, and that is exactly what we can expect you to, say, deal with a law that would regulate basic human rights, primarily detainees in the UN tribunal. If the team were engaged in the state of Serbia, then Vojislav Seselj would not have been denied the right to defend himself because he was disabled from communication, privileged communication with legal advisers. While such things happen, you are dealing with some pro-European laws and we really don't know what they serve you when from the EU, exactly what we've been saying, there's nothing, it's falling apart and we don't care about it. You are destroying everything that can be destroyed under that story because of Serbia's entry into the EU, and there is no speech from that entry. In addition, today 54% of Serbian citizens follow the idea of the SRS that Serbia must not enter the EU. What did you foresee for article 119? It normally refers to the liability for the damage caused by the aircraft in flight to third parties and things on earth, and then you wrote that the owner, or the user of the aircraft, is responsible for the damage caused by the flight of aircraft to third parties and things on earth. We think there should be a point here, and you added that death or physical injury to those faces, or damage to things on the ground, unless it proves that the damage to things on the ground did not occur as a result of the use of aircraft. The Serbian Radical Party thinks the owner, or user of the aircraft, must be responsible for the damage, regardless of the consequences. It's pretty incomprehensible and incomprehensible to us. How can you determine what damage the owner, or user of the aircraft, will be responsible for? You know, you've also used this article here, first of all, which is why I am speaking within this member and the entire law, some European documents that govern, among other things, the competition for flight control for the assignment of jurisdiction in so-called. functional air traffic blocks. This law is of paramount importance to Germany and the UK above all. It is a disaster, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing, and that the assembly majority will likely pass a law that is not in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but in Germany and the UK. The director of flight control of Germany has publicly said that the Germans are moving into a competition and are preparing for start to buy flight controls for the Benelux countries, and then moving further towards the Balkans. This is the danger we are talking about and where we draw your attention to make it the smartest and most useful for Serbia to withdraw this law from the procedure. Also, Great Britain, imagine the level at which they raised the flight control problem, that the British House of Lords raised this problem to the Queen's level. In what way? They speeded up the training of military officers for civil flight control tasks, and Serbia is doing completely opposite processes, because, of course, Germans and British are preparing their trained civilians for flight control in Serbia, or for control... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62982	People's MPs, I ask you to try to bring all arguments concerning domestic and foreign flight control descriptions about the amendment and the law, as the bill and the amendment does not speak, and we are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, which requires that we talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62983	I remind you I'm talking about responsibility for the damage that an aircraft in flight causes to third parties and things on the ground. I am also talking about a danger that we know reliably will happen when control of flying into Serbia is done by foreigners. Today, we have a situation where this one mentions Nikola Stankov several times, along with the Shutanovite... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62984	People's MPs, I'm warning you now. So, flight control, domestic or foreign, obviously even with your skill, the MP can't be associated with the subject of the agenda because she's not in this law, so I warn you against giving you a warning measure to stick to the subject of the agenda and obligations of Article 106, which obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda, and obliges me to give you measures of caution if you don't want to respect that provision of the Rules of Procedure. You don't want to talk about agenda issues? Thank you. It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62985	We're limited to this part of the agenda theme. This refers to regulation of bonds and property relations in air traffic. The sentences Mrs Radeta made on the issue of the unnecessaryness of this law, i.e. that this law is not necessary and that this area could be regulated by one law, probably referring to the extension of the current Law on Liabilities, it is simply not a practice in almost any EU country. Nowhere in the world is this matter, which you called lex specialis, it is, it is not governed by the same law that regulates bonding matter regarding ordinary citizens, businessmen, etc. Therefore, the Law on Liabilities is a general law governing the matter of bonding relations relating to the establishment of basic fundamental relations where they are regulated in a particular part of a particular section of a particular trade contract, those that are mature for legal regulation, but rarely where. For such practice, I do not know that this law also regulates areas such as bond relations in such a specific area, in air traffic, road traffic, rail traffic, and even some other types of traffic, telecommunications, etc. This would first and foremost create a major problem for ordinary citizens who very often use the Law on bond relations in their daily needs in buying, selling, etc. What we might agree on, the last time I said that when we talked about this law in principle, it might be that Serbia is following the adoption of a bond code in which all the laws in the area of bond law, the general part as a law on bond relations and all the other special lex specialis laws, then it would be really very useful for all the people who deal with bond law because in one place they would have all the laws. However, someone from your parliamentary group mentioned that we were facing audits and other laws in bond-law relations. This is one of the laws that has passed this revision and the alignment not only with European legislation but also in the meantime adopted international conventions in this area which have since 1998 or as any law has been last amended in the previous state, rules change, material conditions change, performance in these universes, and it is necessary to change the laws themselves, so that in this sense perhaps one day and the code. I'd be really happy if that were to happen because the area of bond law, whether we like it or not, is one of the most stable areas and because at the time of the making of the 1978 Bond Relations Act, it's done by reputation of modern Western legislation, so it hasn't changed, as other laws have changed, so maybe one day we could get to that point, maybe in a few years. Only in that part would I agree with you, but to be governed by one law, it's almost impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62986	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available for the parliamentary group is 43 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62987	I didn't say this area could be regulated by the Bond Relations Act. My colleague Veselinović didn't understand me very well. I said the Law on Bond Relations in the Republic of Serbia is such that this area can be perfectly regulated under that law, and that is a big difference. Every serious state and serious legal system goes towards enforcing the codification of laws, not tampering. We have a case like this with the Criminal Code, even though we call it the Code, and in every other law that's been passed here we have criminal acts, which means we don't have codified criminal legislation, we don't have a litigation code. We thought we had a pretty well-organized bonding relationship. We're still saying that in the SRS, but you're going to do it now and you're going to do it. Then counterpart Vesenovic says that nowhere in the world is the area being regulated by this general bond law, which is absolutely not true, because all serious states have comprehensive laws on bond relations. But I also remind you that nowhere in the world is it possible that flight control is performed by civilians and that officers who are trained to control flight are resolved by those functions, turned into civilian faces or returned to the army for other jobs that have nothing to do with flying control. It is the specifics of Serbia, and this is what Mr Sutanovac and Mr Stankov did, of course, under the auspices of the EU and, above all, by Germany and Great Britain, who intend to buy flight control in Serbia and directly control the sky above Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62988	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 119. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62989	On many political issues, so specific technical issues, we really cannot reach agreement with the ruling majority, not because we have no hearing, one or the other, but because you gentlemen from the ruling majority absolutely do not have a change of critical attitude and a critical relationship with all those regulations, laws and papers that come from Brussels. No one can convince the SRS that everything that comes from there is good. There are things that are really good through regulation, but we ask them - why are they not in practice in Serbia? Because they seek political maturity and political responsibility, and this government is the hardest to show. Everything else is populism and cheap demagogy. We are now talking, not wanting, Mr. Jankovic, to take a step with you on this subject, I don't know how competent I am, but you are talking about the specifics of the topic and then you say – European practice. We don't adopt this law as it is because things in our country have matured to have some area of some sort arranged by a modern, good and quality law. This law does not recognise reality in Serbia, that is the problem. The second is nomotechnics, the technique of writing that I'm about to talk about right now, which is, in part, what my amendment is about and what it's about. But it can't be acceptable and good here just what European practice is. For ten years, the promotion of European practice in Serbia has been completely, completely unthinkable. It has come up with European practice and its meaning and whoever does not take a critical approach to European practice, there is nothing good that this country can do. Unspeakable acceptance of everything written there, which is there in regulation and in laws, that's nonsense. Then this congregation loses its meaning, the reason for existence. Rewrite, translate and function. But what's the point? Where do you view identifying a specific theme? When you adopt something here. Today, in the government, the media is crucifying you. You've passed a thousand laws, two-thirds of them don't apply. Is it fate and this law? Then what can you blame the SRS? What criticism on the bill? What can you blame us for? You adopt these laws for the sake of these tables - compliance with EU rules, for December of the month. We are not going to enter the specifics or anything else, because you are not giving or calling for that kind of responsibility, because you don't care about the application and how this will affect the regulation of air traffic in Serbia. Mr. Novakovic, you witnessed exactly a year ago. You see how it's all set up. What have we been promised from these benches? I'll see you here. We then owed JAT 50m euros. Do you know what perspective JAT then promised? They told me, "I'll see you in this room in a year." Where's JAT and our air traffic today? More strategic partners they can't find. Not to go into the small details and not to look for who's what and how much he took. That's the principle you rule and we'll never accept. Look at article 119 of the law. Did anyone, who suggests in the government or in general, deal with him seriously in Serbian state bodies? Has an average lawyer in Serbia prepared it or has it been translated? Now you say this - it's a responsibility, said Mrs. Radeta, for the damage that an aircraft in flight causes to third parties and things on the ground. Keep an eye on attitude 1. – owner, i.e. user of aircraft. Are those two different categories? I suppose they are, and so it says here – the user, the responsible person, is responsible for the damage caused by the use of airships in flight to third parties and things on earth, etc. Take a look at attitude 4. I suggested that he change. Now I'm sorry I didn't propose to delete it. That would only make full sense. For the damage caused by this, the leaser is also responsible, as the user of the aircraft. That's what you wrote in Section 1. What it says in paragraph 4 is also written in paragraph 1. Who should respect this nomotechnic? You know the specifics of the subject, you've entered matter with understanding. Remember, the SRS really has no problem with your "European values". Only smart and rational can produce something that is created in criticism or critical review. This acceptance of a card of everything you're served, it's pointless, it's ruined the country. There's no part of the system that works the way these bad laws predict. I wish you'd matched the system with them. You don't respect what you're committed to either. You give now, don't blame yourself, but you have the right to blame the SRS – he doesn't know the specifics. Is this writing the law in this way of knowing matter and specifics? The government's interest in some matter, what price do we have to pay to get a signature in December, that poor and unhappy? We pay it for KIM, Serbian heads and citizens in The Hague. What else do we have to do? The only thing we can expect from you, these governments and its president and the government and the state, we can only offer to call a tender to sell to Serbia, but we can expect nothing more. And we will never agree with this kind of approach, this kind of writing of the law, this sort of arrangement of the state. We'll always be fierce against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62990	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62991	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed Mr. Stevanovic, a fellow MP of the people, is indeed presenting a topic he knows very correctly. I love listening to him. He spoke of this subject at all, did not enter the matter and accused the ruling coalition, therefore the DS, of adopting laws that did not apply and that it was used to prescribe laws, not entering into it, I assumed, what is Serbia's state interest or such intention to impose. Mr. Stevanovic, I think you are wrong, that the SRS is wrong when it is eager to count the percentages of those who are against the EU. We should not be happy with the fact that even in Europe, the situation is not great. I'm asking my colleagues from the SRS not to disturb me. (President: No direct communication, please. ) I am talking about the topics they have been working on by commenting on the previous amendment, but very directly on the issue of the amendment itself. So we should not be happy with the fact that in our environment in the EU, in addition to our borders, countries that are EU members do not go great and that the situation in these countries is much worse than with us. But if you accuse us of acting as the EU dictates, I must tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has acted far more responsibly than many governments in the EU and far more responsible than many governments in the region and that, if we compare with some of the EU countries, we are positive with them. (President: People's Parliament, please concerning the topic of the agenda, to bring the parameters you are bringing into contact with the law. Yes, the chairman, I will, but I just feel uncomfortable in the O.R. when we're taking charges from the opposition MPs, and we can't answer and I'll try to finish. You're right, I really got a little off the subject. DS and position must do much more on the subject of law-making. This is not at all controversial, and no one escapes from it, and there are both the assembly and the assembly committees, to review on certain topics the ministers who may not have brought an adequate number of sublegal acts, or who do not apply, eventually, laws. But we do not run away from this responsibility and we want to do so, so that most of our pre-election promises, in such conditions as we were, will be fulfilled by the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62992	Four minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović. Time available to the parliamentary group for 38 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I made it very clear when I was speaking, that the speaker of this House can oblige all MPs to stick to the agenda subject, but it is our right, constitutional and every other, to make access to one topic as we believe to the public, but also to those who sit before the Government, to send a clear message. This kind of approach to the government law, I don't dispute your right, Mr. Veselinovic, to ask me to know the specific theme. You have this freedom because, like me, you are a Messenger of the people. If anyone insists on freedom of speech in parliament, it's the SRS. I'll give myself freedom, if I were to chair, I'd never interrupt you, no matter what you say, unless it goes beyond the limits of decency. I am talking about an amendment that I have submitted to one member, to article 119, and here I have sought – for the damages of Article 1 of this article, the tenant of the aircraft is also responsible, as the user of the aircraft. I suggest putting a point there, and the sequel is – if the damage is caused by the use of aircraft taken into lease. Do you know what the reason for the rejection of the amendment is? The proposed amendment cannot be accepted given that the text, whose erasure is proposed, provides for an exception to the rules and makes the norm more precise. What's this exception? What's the exception here? This attitude four shouldn't have stood here at all. Article 1 is all regulated, but for those who want to read, understand and apply the law. In paragraph 1, it says - anything for a state that has regulated institutions, a state where members of the judicial prosecution system will not buy and sell for 100, 200, 300 and 500 euros, and in the afternoon we will discuss on the subject in which I will show you the arguments and evidence, that nothing that we bring out as a criticism of the corruption of crime, irresponsibility and non-functioning of the system cannot be placed on the burden of the SRS. Your personal attitude may be identical to ours, but the policy you belong to doesn't give you the right to express yourself to the end and to put what you think and feel into practice. We don't think anything that comes from the outside by the difolt has to be bad, but the problem is that they think that everything that comes from the outside is good. When I say outside, I mean the EU. I made it clear here that in this sector you don't have a critical relationship with it. You don't have a critical relationship with anything. A law that writes an average lawyer, not an expert, not someone who sits in the ministry and deals with this matter or someone from their profession, can't be written like this. You need a methodology for writing laws to be clear, precise, loud, etc. We conducted a bunch of discussions in this assembly about categories and coins in a law that nobody knows what they mean or what they represent. This is pure nomotechnics. I'm not much of a fan of this profession, but when you get into the context of this law and you read it, it's really funny -- opening a domestic market, air services for EU carriers. For ten years, you can't find a strategic partner for JAT. Where are your friends from the EU? If it's like you said, why is your political ambition to go there? What about those who are worse than us? I really think they're worse than us. They're worse than us, but they're big enough hypocrites to harass us, and you agree to that. It irritates the SRS and that's why we'll never find agreement on these things. There is no state, union, institution or document to which you cannot be critical. I have to, they have a lot of reasons for that. It's not like that, believe me, not in business, not in production, not anywhere, however they want and want to introduce the people of Germany 11. The reality is completely different. Studies for JAT done three times. Robbery, crime, corruption, contracts. We are still talking about European standards and their applications in air traffic. We stumble on a baseless story about a member who means nothing. As it was written, he could be written in two attitudes and get rid of everything. They wrote it in five views, because nobody really got involved in it. Sign it, write it, send it to the congregation, serial production, a thousand laws, boast. A country in ruins. I repeat, from Kosovo to Vojvodina nothing works properly. It pains me that, as a radical, I'm talking about my own country. It is not for the roof of Serbia, but for those who manage it. I'm talking about the regime, what my colleagues say, those who define and establish the system. What does Nikola Stankov do to receive 800,000 dinars or a million dinars? What's he doing? What does he do? He's using state monopoly. It's a monopoly. He makes money, makes value, so he sells it, you know it better, better than I do. What's he doing? Therefore, we have different approaches to all of this, with respect for matter and the writing of laws, etc. We simply believe that you have a critical relationship with everything that the Brussels administration does not exist to you. The SRS is therefore against Brussels and against our path to the EU and I truly believe in one serious support and such a policy in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62994	Seven minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62995	The full Chapter 4 of the Law on Bonds and Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic refers to the Air Safety Contract in the airspace. In particular, my amendment is about responsibility for the damage caused to the aircraft in flight by third parties and things on the ground. Since Mrs Radeta had previously talked about the legal basis of this amendment, I am not going to deal with this problem, but I am going to get a little bit attached to the practical aspect. According to Article 119, Article 1(1) states that the owner or user of the aircraft which, within the meaning of this law, represents the responsible person is responsible for all the damage done to third parties, both in the air and on the ground if the damage occurs by his fault. It's kind of logical, because the same goes for both road and sea traffic. But what is illogical about this article is Article 5, which states that the provisions of Article 1 refer to the damage caused by the very passing of the aircraft through the airspace if the damage has occurred due to the non-resistance of the airspace users of the relevant flight safety regulations. I suggested that this second part of the sentence be deleted: "if damage occurred due to non-compliance with the users of certain regulations", because air traffic, like perhaps no other, depends on co-ordination with Earth institutions, in this sense with Flight Control. You see, we can take a classic example. When the crew of the aircraft is 100% adhered to the flight control order and instruction, which is at the very end of the line and mandatory, but what if any damage occurs when the crew adheres to it and has done damage? This implies both a certain responsibility and a certain material, organisational and personnel equipment of the Flight Control, and in what state this institution is, we know for ourselves. I'll remind you that in 2005, a large... . (President: National MP, I will remind you of the obligation of Article 106 which speaks of the agenda, with a clear message from the authorised representative of your parliamentary group who is sensitive to the agenda. I'm giving you a warning that the next time I interrupt you, there will be a warning measure. Please, about that agenda. ) Regarding the amendment, the damage may occur if flight control is insufficiently technically equipped, and in 2005, we equipped flight control... (President: National MP, Flight Control is not doing any damage. The amendment and the law apply to an aircraft that's causing damage. That's exactly what my amendment is about if there's any damage. Let me explain. (President: I now give you a second warning. After that, there goes the pronunciation of the warning measure. People's messenger, I listen to you very carefully, as I have listened to each of the MPs. Waiting five, six to ten minutes for some things to be connected. National MP Momir Markovic, who is an authorised representative of your parliamentary group, responded from the bench, sent a clear message that a reminder of the MPs to talk about the agenda point was done during the first sentence and in the first minute. You have two warnings. The next is the pronunciation of the warning measure. So, I'm bringing this into a relationship. If there's any damage, someone has to make up for it, right? But I would logically ask the question – what if the crew is doing 100% right by order of flight control, and yet there is damage to the fault of flight control? So flight control is supposedly equipped, but there may be some side effects. That's the point of my amendment. So I simply wanted to draw attention to the need to delete this second part of the sentence, because it's 100% on the crew, and the crew if they're acting on flight control orders, then they're acting in accordance with regulations. That's the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62996	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62997	On behalf of the SRS, on behalf of Article 120, I have proposed this amendment and I believe that this Article 120 should change, in order for its content to be more precise and clearer and more applicable in that case. So, if the person responsible under Article 119 of this law "frees responsibility for damage if it proves that the damage has been caused by a damaged person or another person who has been working on a warrant for the account of a third party or a damaged person". Mr. Minister, I've been dealing with various branches of law for almost 40 years, including bond relations. The Law on Bond Relations, which is valid, was adopted in 1978, has 1,108 members and this bill has 180 members. What I have noticed is that from the applicable Law on Liabilities, therefore, Article 154 of which are fundamental principles relating to damage, liability on the basis of guilt, which is prescribed by Article 158, Article 173, which prescribes the presumption of cause of injury, Article 174, responsibility for damages, therefore, who is responsible for the damage caused by a dangerous thing, in particular that the provisions of the applicable Law on Liabilities entail and aircraft as a dangerous thing, then the provisions which speak of the release from liability, which are prescribed in Article 177, are a good part taken from these provisions of the applicable Law on Liabilities. The question is, will this law that you have proposed give the desired results? What is the purpose of this law? The purpose of this law, as I understand it, is to prescribe norms and introduce order into responsibility. But I must say that we have these standards in most parts already in force – the Law on Liabilities. You see, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not advocate or kidnap to propose a new law on bond relations that will regulate the overall matter, as governed by civil laws, and Serbia has no civil law. Only Serbia in Europe and England has no civil law. So no one can easily dare to challenge the existing Law on Liabilities written by a respected and famous professor, I will mention it because it is about a man who is extremely responsible for the bond law and this branch of law, which is a respected professor from the Faculty of Law, Slobodan Perovic. With him, I had a bonding right. You see, Serbia has decided on this law, although Serbia should have codified in the area of bond law, as was similar to that done in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. They are somewhere close, because we have passed the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the most modern in Europe, the most democratic one, in 2000, 1998, 1999, that law has been prepared in the federal government. It was adopted in 2001. It's the most democratic law. There is no codification of bond law here, which is necessary in Serbia. But we don't have such an expert who, as some ministry promoters dare some people, with their humble knowledge, dare to write bill proposals or amend them and supplement them. The problem is something else when it comes to our legislation. In recent years, we have inflation regulations, and this inflation of regulations is seen in so many ways that we are passing many large laws to allegedly join the EU. That's not gonna happen. Greece has joined the EU and is being torn apart as a Bulgarian assembly. The problem is that we're passing laws, but they're not in service, as the government admits. What is even more disastrous, the law has not yet come into force, and the month – two days are proposed changes and additions. Often changes and supplements aren't meaningless. Sometimes 200 members are also proposed to make changes and to supplement the law. I don't want to owe it now, I think this amendment is quite acceptable, because it is in accordance with the applicable Law on Bond Relations. It's a good thing you've been looking at the provisions of these members that I've mentioned, so you've taken the norms and you've taken over the exact norm that's clear and logical. There aren't many invented new things here. This is not a novelty god knows what it's like when it comes to article 119 and article 120. I think it's a good thing you've consulted this current regulation and it already exists in it. But, Mr. Minister, if I may ask you and give you an answer, since it is a compensation from the airships, will Serbia demand compensation from NATO villains 19 countries that have killed the Serb population and destroyed Serbia's economy, education, health care and caused damages of around 100 billion euros? That please, will Serbia press charges for damages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62998	Five minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Avramović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u62999	Article 21 defines a partial discharge from responsibility, which says – if the responsible person proves that the cause of the damage partially contributed to the third party, it corresponds to the damaged in solidarity with the responsible person, proportionate to its guilt for the damage done. That's what can't happen. First, a third party can't be responsible for any damage, it can be the one who involved a third party in any legal operation. So you can't just have a third person. Second, solidarity? What does that mean? Who's going to do a solid assessment of the damage? Montreal Convention or any other law? In this system under which this law works and according to this proposal, which you propose to operate this law, a third party cannot be held accountable because it cannot determine the level of solidarity, obligation, or even judicial procedure, because it is solidarity. The word itself says and can be interpreted any way you want. That's something a lawyer can throw under the water, this whole article. What is the essence of this bill? Let's say, the directorate or the flying control agency are exempt from responsibility, as well as a third party, if we accept that standard of the Montreal Convention. Then you'll have a situation where due to the power outage, it's the fault of Serbia's Electro-distribution, not the person who was authorized to provide a voltage for the Flight Control Agency or for the work of the Directorate. So the third person has no responsibility here. Mr. Mrkonjic, in the Air Traffic Act, you have introduced a new standard that is budgeted on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is the chief inspector and investigator. Who in this case will determine the level of third party compensation? Chief Inspector and investigator or this convention, which defines the Law on the Restitution of Obligations, how much will anyone be involved in the compensation of damages? The laws you've proposed, they're your own. Then what will be the role of the lead investigator? I will remind you, after all, that his role will be such that he will cheer for the state institution because the state has formed him and is on the state budget. In addition, the lead investigator is also elected on a proposal from the assembly board to the majority of the republican parliament and the Serbian Parliament, most of which is set in the assembly committee itself. So you've got a cut of jurisdiction and you've got those institutions and terms that don't allow state institutions to be responsible for their actions and for their mistakes, and you're going to punish a subleter at a certain percentage for something he didn't do. If we connect the entire afternoon debate, where a third party has no responsibility, where there is no sublet, there is no responsibility for any damage, then you will see clearly that this primary air traffic law is still in effect 10% compared to those 90s, which are proposed by the Montreal Convention, which we have adopted and in which it does not write the percentage of the participation, especially if it cancels on its own by means of a contract or goes to arbitration to bring about a type of damage assessment and its participation in it. It is therefore important that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63000	Three minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 122. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63001	Now I would ask those who corrected us from other parliamentary groups to listen. Article 122 says, "If the aircraft is illegally taken from the responsible person and it is not the fault of taking the aircraft, for the damage caused by the use of that aircraft is not responsible for the person responsible but for the person who took the aircraft against him. "How can air traffic occur from an aircraft that has been illegally taken over? Only in one way - a terrorist act. The terrorists flew into the airport, under the threat of weapons took the plane, and it was illegally taken. How else can it appear in air traffic a plane that has been illegally taken over? He goes on to say, if the responsible person whose plane is not faulty for the damage caused by the plane that was illegally taken. Gentlemen, this is how you put into law one possibility that a man is creeped out of. Remember the pictures when the planes that were illegally taken hit the twins in America. Does he now need a company that owns the plane to be responsible? No, in that case, you release him. What's the state doing in these cases? How can it be allowed to, in addition to the security we talked about in the Air Traffic Act and in this law, think that in Serbia's territory, an aircraft may be illegally taken and put into traffic? Who's gonna lead him when he takes off? What about the flight control and the plane she's running, which is illegally taken? A lot of nebulosis, I don't know why, in this law that is otherwise very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63002	Twenty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63003	This is just amazing. There's nothing more logical than what's written in the amendment. If the aircraft is illegally seized, of course the owner of that aircraft cannot be held accountable for the damage caused by that person taken away by the aircraft. I don't see what's illogical about it and how to move from the area of bond law to another area you're talking about: terrorism, etc. It's all possible, dear fellow. It's possible that the aircraft could be illegally seized. We can't rule out that possibility, nor can we in that case charge of damage, or that it is necessary to make up for the person whose plane is the aircraft, so that no one who listened to what you were saying can be clear what you really want to say and what did you want to say with that amendment – to be responsible for the person whose plane was the aircraft, and the aircraft was illegally taken away? There's probably no such example anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63004	National MP Momir Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63005	I really don't know, I'm sorry, he mentioned me and I have the right to a replica of Mrs. Slavica. He says like this, I have to read it for a gentleman who hasn't read a member, if the plane is illegally taken away by a responsible person and it's not wrong, etc. The previous question – how can it be allowed to enter the air traffic of an aircraft that has been illegally taken? Here, directly into the law, it puts the possibility of someone illegally taking an aircraft and taking off. What airport to take off from? What's airport services doing? Who's gonna follow him upstairs? What kind of flight control is that? Does Stankov Nikola want it? Will Stankov Nikola be sitting behind the defendant's bench the next day, like this one? Secondly, how are they going to charge, say, America, I mentioned a little bit, from terrorists who illegally took planes and did damage? Please don't let the law go into possibilities, if, eventually, it takes unlawfully, there's no way you can apply this law the next day. Or it opens up terrible possibilities. Many shortcomings in this law are precisely because such members and some members of these conventions or some similar laws from the environment are not applicable in Serbia. There's no theoretical possibility of someone taking a plane against the law and flying our skies to take off from our airports and to put someone else in such a situation into the law. There's a criminal law for all cases, similar. What we would have to enter into the Law on Bond Relations. I think, Mr. Mrkonjic, you should think about this article and get it out of the law, adopt the amendment, and it seems to me that there are a lot of members who are just like this you should withdraw the law. In order to help you, I propose a team of SRS dealing with these issues. We're going to be very kind to help you make a good and quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63006	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 123. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63007	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, we have reached this area of which colleagues Markovic and colleagues Avramovic have spoken, which is included in the law, and this is about the compensation of the damage caused by third parties and I now have some specific questions for you, Mr. Minister, given that this article, where I have submitted the amendment, is being added to the other members. Your associates will probably help you. In fact, you know that, back in 1952, a convention was passed that regulates the compensation of the damage that the aircraft made to third parties, and it had some two amended protocols. The convention, signed by the SFRJ, and as a legal successor after both the SRJ and the state of Serbia, talks about the limit of responsibility. Why did we react in Article 124? You said – the person responsible is responsible for the damage the aircraft caused on earth to the value (price) of the new aircraft at the time of the accident, and most to the amount of the actual damage. You must do this, Mr. Minister, if you want to be logical and well-intentioned towards those who suffer such damage, to accept this amendment and to delete the words "to the price of a new aircraft at the time of the crash", because a new aircraft can be dozens of times less valuable, depending on what type, which model than actual damage. This will be determined in the subsequent procedure Mr Avramovic spoke of, that these are the most common procedures when such things happen, Madam President, before international arbitration courts. In front of the international court, i.e. the arbitration court, the arbitration court in London, and then it determines what height it is. What you must be unable to make up for is human lives, that's what our country experienced, what all the countries where the aggression of NATO villains was committed. We shot down F16 and F117 and our brave officers, soldiers fought 78 days against these villains. Here, Mr. Jojic mentioned one aspect, this is the damage of at least, as estimated, 300 billion dollars of material damage, and who will make up for the human lives that these villains have committed here and killed so many civilians from the air and with bombs with poor uranium, which is why today, you know Mrs. President as a doctor, feels tens of thousands, unfortunately our people and young people, especially people in the KIM area. One more question, Mr. Minister. Now you're saying here, because that's part that's a little bit altered than in this mentioned convention, that even the foreign airships of the provisions of this law are applied to them, under the conditions of reciprocity. You have to make it clear, and it's regulated by this convention, which are foreign airships. It wasn't just these planes, it was used most by Micunovic, you know and you were an MP here, it wasn't coming out of this building, then SRJ, it was flying everywhere, and then it was renovated, because these DOS's burned down this assembly, the hall, and it was new money, but it wasn't just that plane that was being flown by statesmen, it was both military and police planes and customs. Now, Mr. Mrkonjic, that people downstairs, which Tadic betrayed and sold, on Brnjak and Jarinj, day and night, defends our sanctity of KIM, and during the time of the Shiptar, the Thaci customs officers are carrying NATO helicopters with the Ustasha flag and others. It happens, and you know that the helicopter is one of the most unstable aircrafts, right? Most of the time, by statistics, unfortunately accidents happen by helicopter. Only once, when Mr. Mircic organized a session of the Committee in Bujanovac, I drove away with a police helicopter and it felt really uncomfortable. So, you happen to fall and God forbid there's something to be done, you say, so reciprocity. When these EU villains recognize Thaci's terrorist state and him as a villain, as some quasi state in our country, which is then reciprocity, Mr. Mrkonjic, we can achieve it? Or whether this reciprocity applies to the same model and the same arches as in The Hague, which was founded by the CIA and which serves the interests of America, NATO and the EU dealing with Serbs and above all with our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been there for nine years. And your president was killed by these villains there and then by the reciprocity that we have with them and who will guarantee it, because Serbia as a state, with this authority and with this regime that has fallen to our knees and which simply accepts all the conditions, can't go anywhere else, no matter what is in some laws, that it seeks any reciprocity. I have one regret, Mr. Grouchy. Regardless of what you were a minority coalition partner, you fought against NATO villains and in ruined Serbia, along with us in power, built and built all these bridges. Don't ever say that again - the president has a word. He is nothing to you, nor anyone who is an honorary patriot that you tell him now he will turn. Where you work, you do your job with honor and integrity, and your voters, and those people who know that you fought the villains will respect it, and these traitors, and Tadic and what they have betrayed us, this Nikolic and this Wolf, they will be judged by history and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63008	Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63009	Item 3 which we ask to delete is read – a person who has unlawfully used an aircraft that has caused damage has no right to call for the limits of responsibility prescribed by this law. A person who has unlawfully used an aircraft using not only damage, but also any person using an aircraft against the law does not have the right to call on any limit of responsibility. In regulated aviation relations, there is no possibility of illegal use of aircraft. This provides for criminal responsibility, both for the person who used it against the law and for the person who made it possible to do so. I don't see why there's this point 3 in Article 125 at all. Instead, the state and government should deal with other problems, other things, other relationships. The state would have to deal with a brutal violation of the rights of Hague prisoners. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has been deprived of his right to prepare for defense. He was denied communication with his legal advisors. He's been denied communication from which they can't use anything, even if they're listening, and they're listening anyway. Instead of such laws that we do not need, a law whose members foresee something that already exists in our legislation, the state must take care of every citizen of the Serbian state, of every citizen, including, in particular, those in front of The Hague tribunal. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, I believe that this position of Article 3 125 needs to be deleted and you should accept this amendment, because what you are predicting by Article 3 is well processed by the Criminal Law and other laws of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63010	You've just wasted your time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. There's only 14 minutes left from the group. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 129. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 129 refers to property legal relations in an aircraft in which the property of the aircraft is defined in two different ways and to me from this article is not clear in which. In the first position it stands – the aircraft is a moving thing. The second point of view is – in legal traffic, the aircraft has a status of immovableity. Is he a motionless or mobile thing? Who will define what form of law will affect both in one case and in another? If we take one free parallel and the fact that the state has provided guarantees for over 100m euros of credit for modernising the Air Control Agency and that damage has occurred because the Agency has caused damage for one or the other reason, can one and the other fact be applied there? On what basis and by what mode do we define this Member of Law 129? Is the aircraft a moving thing or is it motionless? In your explanation, you said something that absolutely cannot accept common sense, which is – the proposed amendment cannot be accepted since the aircraft according to its physical abilities is a moving thing, but for which, in legal traffic, given its great value, the country's book regime applies. That's your explanation. How are you going to implement this through this law and through this convention that you are referring to? That convention doesn't exist, the country's book regime. So, another kind of removal of the burden of this law that, if it has reason in this ministry, can be very easily resolved by accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63012	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 130th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63013	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, members of 130, speak of property rights. Among other things, it is said that there is a right to property and other property rights on board. The object of property rights can also be an aircraft in construction, as well as things that are installed in the aircraft in construction. What's the problem? The problem is the 6th position, which says – if nothing else is entered in the register of aircraft in the Republic of Serbia, the right to property in the construction of the aircraft includes and the things contained in the production or maintenance, which are not installed in the aircraft, if, according to its construction, they are designated exclusively for installation in a particular aircraft or for its members or if they are clearly marked, separated for installation in that aircraft. The question is, how can the things that are in the production be included in the register, or can they have property rights? The things in the production aren't the parts, they're not finished. Are they technically tested, are they technically correct? What does it mean when you say – things that are in the production? Watch how confusing the line is. Part of the sentence says: things that are in the production and are not incorporated into the aircraft. Well, it's natural that the things that are in the production aren't built into the aircraft. Is there another option? No, I don't. Is there any possibility that the things that are in the production could be installed in the aircraft? No, I don't. This part of the sentence is extremely confusing and misspelled. In the explanation that you cited for refusing this amendment, the Government stated the following. Among other things, this provision is in line with international standards. That doesn't make any sense. What if it's misspelled in international standards? Do we have to make mistakes? No, we don't. Listen to what you say further – this provision is in line with international standards and recommended practice when it comes to parts. I'm just saying it's not the parts, it's the things that are in the production. I think there's some difference. That's why I think this position 6 is unnecessary, useless, that it's bad, that it's too high, and that's why I suggested erasing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63014	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63015	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, can you tell us how much time is left for the parliamentary group? (President: 12 minutes left. ) Article 31, which was submitted by counterpart Milan Veselinovic, refers to the property or property of the aircraft which can be in the building property determined by the shares. It's perfectly logical that two or three, physical or legal persons, make one aircraft and have shares in it or buy it in proportion to some parts and have ownership stakes in it. What's wrong with this attitude 2 is that any rightful owner of property can, in accordance with the provisions of this law, alienate his part on an aircraft. It's totally fine, you can resell, sell or anything else or overload. That's already the problem that arises in attitude 2. So if you put a mortgage on one part that is in construction or on anything, it didn't take its function to the extent that it should or should not have brought incomes that are planned or you can burden it in any other way, to give someone something by will, it doesn't matter, or any other form of property-legal relations, as you stated in the very explanation for the rejection of the amendment, then in the construction of the aircraft itself, there shouldn't be a kind of burden because it can and may not be built, and the share has already been given. Who, in that case, will restore that share to whoever is in it? So these words: "or burden" should be deleted so that there is no problem in the very law on bonding relations, especially in this air traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63016	The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 134. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 134 in front of the SRS, to remove Section 2. It is not logical that the state, which is obliged to search and rescue, lays down the right if the owner cannot pay those costs, which are not incurred by his will, but as a consequence of more force. The purpose of this amendment is to improve the law. Now I'm going to try to explain more to you, to convince you that you could accept my amendment, because on the Traffic Committee I tried to convince members in some way, but I didn't convince them, but I think I'm going to be able to convince you to accept my amendment to Article 134. I'm afraid by hoarding new laws without order and system, we're building a legal house on the sand and not on the rock. Everything is subject to political practicalism and the moment of interest of the ruling elite and everything under the firm we will or by that trademark - this is what the EU requires of us. But unfortunately, instead of rule of law, we have lawlessness in the forest of law. There is a stronger law, and we know who is stronger in Serbia today. Unfortunately, this is the economic and political elite. But you have replied by reason that the proposed amendment cannot be accepted since it is necessary for this law to establish a legal right on board an aircraft for the claim relating to the payment due on the basis of the search for an aircraft or its rescue. Namely, the Air Traffic Act "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 70/10, 57/11, said that if an air carrier cannot compensate for the costs, they are paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia has the right to require the user to repay the amounts it has paid. Article 134(2) of the Law provides for an alleged claim. It is noted that the applicable Law on Liabilities and Fundamental Property Rights, i.e. "Official Messenger SRJ" No. 112/98 and 15/98 contain the same provision. But I'm asking you as a man who's been in politics for a long time, my colleagues have said about your professional qualities, but will the time come for one law that has been passed, I was an MP of the then joint state of SCG, a man who signed, unfortunately, as the federal minister of NATO's entry of the units passing through Serbia and any misdemeanor that they can make Serbian citizens, they bear no responsibility? So, unfortunately, then Serbia is occupied under the NATO Pact, the pen of one man, Mr. Vuk Draskovic, if we can say so, that he is a gentleman, but I wonder - is all this time after the separation of the SCG, could this law have come into the process to reactivate, not to allow NATO villains to pass through this free country, a free state? My colleagues spoke a lot in their speech about the compensation of the damage that NATO's humanitarian bombing action destroyed, businesses, entities, so to speak, many civil acts, destroyed the lives of citizens. Is anyone gonna answer or not? It seems to me, as I just said, they're not responding in front of any international criminal court. They can do all the evil things. But I ask you – can this article or this amendment of mine regulate it or does this amendment of mine have to be deleted? Understand me, I won't bother you very much, but I'm asking you as a man, with my associates sitting there, to answer me one question that many times citizens ask us as representatives of citizens to ask you, but now it's possible, just to take a little time, to ask you a question -- should we look into our skies, see what the traces left by unidentified planes? Do these marks after falling to the ground and how much they cause mortality, how much they cause many consequences to the citizens? There was some sort of response from the experts who responded adequately, but I ask you, can you answer, because many times in the fields this one was noticed, so to call it, fog, spiders on plants, which is a glassy color, which causes or which is already in the past? See how many people are in the Clinical and Emergency Center that are unable to detect certain diseases. You know that as an expert, as a doctor. It cannot be diagnosed for proper treatment. So that's the same thing, everyone wants to destroy this beautiful country, which is called Serbia, this beautiful people. The only fight remains in you, in the SRS and its president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63018	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 137. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 137. Proposal for a Law on Obligation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic. I will remind you that this amendment, which I have submitted, refers to the conditions under which aircraft sales are carried out due to various claims. In particular, in my amendment, I asked that it be said: "Due to death or physical injury" is deleted from the bill. What was I looking for that for? The Serbian Radical Party believes that the damage caused for any reason must be compensated and therefore there is no need to mix these two things here. It's not that it's a condition that some damage might be compensated so that, God forbid, someone dies or suffers a major physical injury? The government, as usual, has not accepted this amendment, as has not accepted most of the SRS amendments and is an interesting explanation, where it is said that the condition that has not accepted the amendment is a priority when determining which damage will be first charged. We're simply asking by amendment that the damage be charged independently of it and we don't need to make priorities here, we don't need to mix grandmothers and frogs. It's just that every damage has to be charged. We've seen from the discussion of our other colleagues that this law is inconclusive. That is why I call on the government and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic here to consider and adopt some of the amendments to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63020	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 143. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we from the SRS suggest that article 146 be deleted. The reason is very simple, I'll read the first article. An air carrier may not be permanently withdrawn from air traffic without prior consent by all contractual publishing creditors. The contracting officer may require the court to sell the aircraft at public sale if all the contracted issuers have not given their consent. It is unacceptable, from the point of view of safety in traffic, that the aircraft cannot be withdrawn from traffic because it can simply be incorrect, and it can be so incorrect that there are no spare parts, that there is no such thing as that and that the repair of that aircraft takes a year and you will lead it as an aircraft – an aircraft capable of air traffic. Of course he can pull out of traffic, because of the malfunction, of course he can pull out of traffic and because of many other things. However, this second position is particularly illogical, he says - a contractual debtor may require the court to sell the aircraft at public sale if all contractual publishing creditors did not give their consent. It is illogical and unacceptable for a contracting officer to request the court to sell aircraft, and the contracted issuers do not give their consent. The objective of this amendment is to improve the law. As you can see, it seems our repairs can't help us, and it would really be logical, Mr. Minister, if this law were to be withdrawn, to be done, to bring to parliament a little better. Here we accept that all of our amendments be incorporated into this law and we will not ask for copyright on those amendments. After all, we didn't ask when the Air Traffic Act was, when you prescribed 40 amendments, our amendments refused, but to the point it says that we wrote and wrote the Government submitted amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63022	On Article 147, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63023	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, we from the SRS and myself, through an explanation we are trying to get a third party out of the law, generally and completely, even when it is done in a subjective right that has a third party provided by this law. It says – on the contracted law of the aircraft, a subjective right may be established for the benefit of third parties. If we take this whole debate, what is a third party and how it is provided, in which way it participates in any air traffic modes, it is neither allowed nor needed, which is why we asked to delete this member. One open question, to see how much a third person can do harm, right or wrong. The military technical agreement and Resolution 1244 have defined the return of competence over the control of the sky over KIM when certain conditions are met. Meanwhile, a military mission to KIM handed it over to Pristina authorities according to the Martti Ahtisaari Plan. Since they are unable to organise it, they have activated the Republic of Iceland to conduct flight control on their behalf and for this the Republic of Iceland is charging them with a huge percentage and a huge service. In fact, the revenues in Serbia's budget for this territory absolutely do not exist. Now I'm asking you, if there is any haiarium based on any sky above the KIM that belongs to Serbia in the military-technical agreement, it should also return to Resolution 1244, whether the Republic of Iceland will have any responsibility or any right over that havary. So throw out the third face. We are giving you examples in which you can understand that cutting the law itself because of some standard of the European Commission, the EU or some convention that we have adopted cannot justify, and not even 100 million that the assembly has given as a guarantee of counter-guarantee from the refurbishment and development banks, for modernization and the Aviation Control Agency, because it itself has not yet assumed the powers that belong to it. Throw out a third person from the law itself and you will certainly have a lighter circumstance for its implementation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63024	Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63025	When you look at Article 150 – contractually advocacy and its work primarily obtained by enrolment in the register, it does not cease to delete the aircraft from the register, although the erasure followed by the fact that the aircraft has become permanently unusable, disappeared or for other reasons it has ceased to be used. Article 151 of point 1 states – contract law ceases 1) by deleting it from the register. Excuse me, is this article 150 against article 151? In Article 151, it is said – it does not cease to delete the aircraft from the register although the erasure followed, etc., and here it says – it occurs by deleting it from the register. Mr. Minister, I think these two members of the law are absolutely the opposite of each other. I know you didn't write this, they write professional services, you don't even have time to read the law before you come to defend it. That's why the department's professional services, the flight control professional services, the directorate's professional services, are also to blame for having put you in an awkward position to defend a law that hasn't been well prepared. I therefore suggest that you amend Article 151 and that there is a contractual right to cease the sale of aircraft in an executive or bankruptcy procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63026	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 155. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have submitted to delete Article 159 which speaks of exceptions relating to the previous member of this law, which says that an emergency enforcement of a court decision that reads - non-fulfilment of the obligation, as well as for the security of the claim, can be carried out on an aircraft if the aircraft is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as that execution and security can be allowed on an aircraft located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia if it is registered in our register. Article 159 also implies some exceptions, so it states that the subject of execution or security cannot be a state aircraft, an aircraft used for medical transport and aircraft used to put out fires. In this regard, I ask the question – why can't they be the subject of execution or security, why does their exemption mean, why shouldn't the subject of execution or security be an aircraft used for medical transport or an aircraft used to put out fires? Both aircraft are working in the interests of Serbian citizens, and one and the other are working in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the state must be responsible for the damage caused by its aircraft operating in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I believe that this Member in 159 should not exist, that it should be deleted, as well as these exceptions listed therein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63028	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 160th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63029	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 160 to delete it. Explanation. There is no reason for an aircraft representing a basic asset to be excluded from execution only for that reason. What does that mean? It's a protection of activity. the subject matter of the sale of aircraft cannot be an aircraft representing a basic asset and is necessary to carry out the basic activity of a company, another legal person or undertaking against which the execution is carried out. Mr. Minister, in this law, you're making a decision somewhere that you can as a basic means of selling an aircraft, so that certain costs can be settled, and in this article you don't allow it. Here's your explanation - the proposed amendment cannot be accepted, given that this article's proposed law protects the person against whom the execution is carried out, if it is an aircraft, or a basic means of carrying out the basic activity of that person. In that case, the second subject-matter must be determined. Mr. Minister, we know well that, normally, flight controllers and comprehensively related to the airship system, when modernization was made, in which the US company "Reaction" participated, was credited by the European Investment Bank of 34 million. I'm asking you, and that's what the SRS asked, where were those funds spent, what modernization? We, representatives of the government, and also Serbian citizens have not seen or seen this modernisation that was allegedly implemented or taken for that purpose to do so. Please, we must once stand in the way of this crime, which is the most represented in this public enterprise, which was also media-accompanied to meet citizens, but it seems to me, is the goal of getting to know each other, but making a certain inspection decision or anything, that is inadmissible and this strongest legislative body does not make such a decision by the executive authority that it can be carried out. For what? That's the problem. What are we sitting here for? To expose this corruption, this crime of this ten-year reign of this DOS-Mali government, which has criminally privatized everything and destroyed it. Do you believe me, in a conversation with an ambassador in Brussels, who said - I cannot understand the president of the state, the Prime Minister who holds on to certain people, who allegedly resented both the EU and their representatives, who have criminally contributed to destroying a beautiful country like this, which is called Serbia. Do we need someone in writing or in any way write it to us without us being able to do it? Well, we can't do that because the authorities still have those to start cleaning up. So, let's go to the people. The fish smell from their heads, so it's cleaned up. It must be cleaned from the head, the ministers must be combed. That's why I said, I have to go to psychiatric observation, because I have the same salary as everyone here. I'm processing these 20 acres of land and I'm at a positive zero, I can't survive my life. I wonder how some ministers have a few dozen apartments? Where did they come from? They don't have their own companies or anything. That's the problem, it's the enigma of this society, of this government and all of what today is the essence of this system. It must stand in the way of this crime, of this corruption, but, please, and make it public, to say whether Marko Markovic stole it and whether it was destroyed because of his misdemeanor. This has been destroyed today in this airline that we've been talking about all day, and these days, you know it well, when we're talking and when we talked about all the laws that are under your ministry's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63030	Just to remind you that you don't have any more Parliament time, it's been spent, so only by amendment can you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 162 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll take a moment. Article 162 speaks of the release of air stop or storage. It is said in point 1 – if the temporary measure is determined to provide cash claims, the aircraft will be free of stops or storage if the air carrier is able to provide security at the level of the amount of the claim, for which a stop is sought, provided that that security is available and portable for the benefit of the creditors. Then, it is further said - the level of security provided for in Article 1 may not be greater than the amount of limited liability, etc., that I do not read. Article 3 is the position on which I have submitted the amendment that should be deleted. Paragraph 3 states that when one of the domestic courts, on the basis of the provision of Article 1, frees the aircraft from stopping, then none of the other domestic courts can allow the suspension of that or any other aircraft for the same claims, for the same trustee, provided that security is available and transferable in favour of the trustee. Here you put that one of the domestic courts when it releases the aircraft from stopping any other domestic court can't do that. I ask the question why can't the Supreme Court do it? We believe that Article 3 shouldn't read, should it not be at all, that this point 3 is too high, that it's useless, unnecessary. We have suggested that this point 3 be deleted in Article 162. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63032	The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 165. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I suggested that article 165 be deleted. I tried to amend this, however, it is not working, because you are predicting here – a proposal for the forced sale of aircraft that is entered in the register, etc. is submitted to the Directorate. We suggest you change this part, if you can, so it is to be brought to the court, because in any case, for the forced sale of factories, fields, any other mobile or immovable property, the proposals are submitted to the court. Why would the directorate take over the court's jurisdiction? Why would the Directorate have to be filed in this case? The directorate may be informed that the aircraft that you provide for this member is sold for forced sale due to unsettled obligations, etc., to be sold at auction, but sold by the court, the economic, or trade court was called in due time. He's being sold by a whole other ministry. I don't see why the Directorate would make something that's not functional and why they would give him information that doesn't function. I think by erasing this whole article, both Item 1 and Item 2 and Item 3, we could contribute to the improvement of the law. An application shall be made to the Directorate, so the Directorate shall apply to the competent court, etc... (President: Time. I'm using my authorized time. (President: You have no more, both of you have spent. Finish your sentence. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63034	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic to Article 166. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63035	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 166, for the sake of citizens, refers to the proper application of other regulations. This article defines that the enforcement and security procedures are carried out in the same way as the enforcement and security procedures in water transport. I don't have a water traffic law in front of me, and I don't know his definitions right now. As an aircraft user, a tenant or a sub-rent cannot be trained for one or the other matter in order to know on which basis they may use appropriate application of other rules. So it is absolutely unacceptable that in one law you use the provisions you are referring to in another law. Otherwise, for any right and any kind of action under this law, you can not only refer to the conventions that you have listed here, but also to another law, which absolutely has no contact point with air traffic. So, if it's just a process of enforcement and security, you should have put it in this law, and you say, the same rules apply to this and that, so that you can state what the rules are, so that someone doesn't interpret the rules that don't have a pin of that law with this. It is something that is not flawed, but an open procedure for abuse, because in this law you have the opportunity to manipulate the game of words and terminology, so that a state institution, and not a tenant, a tenant, or any participant in water traffic, will be protected, including this case in air traffic. What are these, what, how, where, and you can't appeal to the Law on Bond Relations, the Law on Weapons, the Law on Acid Rain? You can have the calendar law, you can put anything here, so now whoever found something like it, you can call it in any other procedure. So this is an urgent need to erase it from the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63036	The amendment was also submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63037	In accordance with Article 167 of this previous amendment, it is mentioned what is the relevant right, or the application of the provisions of this law to relations arising from international air traffic, or the applicable law allowing the transport of passengers and things not to apply to the relations resulting from international air traffic, if the parties have agreed to apply a certain other right. We ask a logical question – if the parties agree on their own, among themselves, to apply another right, what do we need this law for? If it has a type of reference law which is made possible by the agreement of Article 1 that provisions which are contrary to the provisions of the Montreal Convention and of the ECA Agreement cannot be negotiated. Which right will be used when he is called on Trjecevic to be responsible for why he signed the 2006 Agreement to join Serbia in the functional bloc of Southeast Europe's airspace. What right will be prescribed to him because he directly violates the sovereignty of this agreement and the signing of the Serbian state? Explain that to us. Imagine that we don't use the Air Traffic Act here and imagine that we're using the relevant law of another country that suits us. These two things are connected and these two things need to be thrown out of the law itself, otherwise they can't be applied. Ask by what right has this treaty signed to deny the sovereignty of its country's territory? Under what right will he now have the kind of control of market liberalisation, purchases, sky control and everything else, in which the Benelux countries are ahead, in fact leaders in Europe who have and how a developed network for the purchase of agencies, such as this one is ours. Give me an answer, so we can understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63038	Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63039	Here we come to a part of the law that, in my opinion, is absolutely inapplicable for a number of reasons. I'll read Section 1. "Controlling the application of the provisions of this law relating to respect for the rights" etc. "He's doing the directory." The directorate is a professional, not a legal supervisory body, so it is expert on air navigation issues, on air traffic law issues, on aviation inspectorate matters, and not on bond relations. Therefore, I believe that this member of the law should also be deleted because it interferes with the authorities not only of other services but of another ministry, it interferes with the affairs of the Justice Ministry, because if someone does not respect a member of the law, it is the court responsible, the prosecutor is in charge, the attorneys are in charge, at the very end of the line, to defend it, and not the Directorate. The directorate is designed and created for another area and should not interfere with what does not belong to it as a rule. That's why I think article 173 needs to be deleted. When this member is deleted, they remain exactly the manner in which the bonds are regulated, as is otherwise required in one state that is arranged and which respects its laws to be. So, for the failure to enforce any law, for the violation of any member of any law, responsibility lies with an institution called the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63040	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted a title above members of 173 and a member of the 173th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 174 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63041	It's the same story again. It's just not about the directorate. It's about the directorate's inspectorate. He says, "Inspection of the application of this law, relevant international regulations and sublaws is carried out by the Directorate through air inspectors." Gentlemen, turn the first page and you will read that this is a law on bond relations, property and legal relations in air traffic, etc. Inspector of the Directorate may be a top expert and probably is, because it is chosen to be a very responsible place, but it is an air expert, not a lawyer, so it is an expert on air navigation issues, on security issues, on security issues, on a number of other issues, but not on bond law. You're putting a man in a position to make decisions on something he's not professional about. Besides, when you go back a little bit and forth through this discussion of ours, and otherwise back through that area called the Air Force, you're going to get into a situation where you have little gods, little yellow fires. Mr. Minister, in the end, let me just ask you to check that and under what conditions is fired from Flight Control the most professional man in Serbia's territory, a man who is an academic, who is a doctor of science and a man who is two and a half years before retirement, named Nikola Žegarac. First he was harassed for 6-7 months, sent to Montenegro, because this is the only institution Serbia-Montenegro, everything else does not exist, either Serbia or Montenegro, and when he asked why the Air Force Academy was taken, he was fired. Please check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63042	On Article 174, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Minister Milutin Mrkonjic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63043	Thank you. As always, here I am enriching my knowledge of the area I am now running in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to thank, above all, Mrs. Vjerica Radeti, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Avramovic, Momir Markovic, Mr. Janko Vesenovic, Dusan Maric. I might skip someone, but I want to mention names, it's always been my practice. More than once, Momi and Avramovic, Vjerica, Niko Savic, Janko Veselinovic, Prof. Dr. Petar Jojic and Serbs Zivanovic and Stefanovic. I'll be very brief. This law, that's what I said in the opening statement, is just the end of the one that was brought in 1998. Mr. Vesenovic explained it well and repeated it several times. It was done by an expert team of people on my left, first of all by this beautiful young woman who's been doing this job for years. From what you've given, there have been 57 amendments, we've adopted 11, and after your discussions here, we've already had a fight, we'll adopt some more. She insists we adopt some more. Believe that's the way it's gonna be. I have to read this now, so there won't be any mistakes. I'll talk about three segments. It's the law, it's the most important thing. Then I'll talk a little bit about the companies you've criticised, which I respect, and every time I come here, I answer these questions and a few personal questions you've asked me, I'll answer that very briefly. Therefore, this very important law will provide conditions for achieving the constitutional jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in the area of property and bonding relations in air traffic and will allow for the improvement and application of regulations in the area, further harmonisation with EU legal assets, as well as the application of international standards and recommended practices in the area. In particular, this law strengthens the air carrier liability system, and this is what my colleague advised me, that it is not transports but carriers, but since it is in my portfolio and truckers, then they are carriers, it will improve the position of passengers in all categories of aircraft, improve, while maintaining air traffic safety at the required level, which is our top priority. It is precisely the specificity of air traffic and the fact that air traffic security is a top priority that has imposed the need for these laws to be regulated in a specific way by the obligations in air traffic, and especially by air leases as dangerous things. This law will have a positive impact on all aircraft entities and will allow for further lifting of air carrier responsibilities, airport operator, transport organisers and will contribute to improving service quality, reducing delays, improving responsibility for the damage caused by the aircraft as a dangerous thing on the ground, but also for the damage caused by passengers and their luggage. For the first time, sanctions for non-compliance with those provisions are also introduced. Therefore, a number of specific solutions that have been proposed have just come from the fact that the aircraft is a mobile matter, but that in the right of legal traffic there is an immobility status, especially with regard to the legal form of the contract that is being carried out, which provided for a number of proposed material solutions. I reiterate that a number of material solutions have also been conditioned by international agreements and conditions that the Republic of Serbia has taken over by concluding international agreements, which the assembly has already verified. It's the first segment we should have talked about today. As for companies that work within the Ministry of Traffic or which are formally there, because you know that the Ministry of Transport and every ministry, in the first sentence there, writes -- the ministry is doing administrative surveillance, these are enterprises with which I must say, I am proud. I don't accept criticism from those companies' managers, and I don't think they're based today. If they were in the previous period, I mean at the airport, I don't want to talk about it, but these are enterprises that are currently in a package of all businesses going to Europe are one step ahead of everyone. Why? Not only are they very valuable, but the agencies and the Directorate are companies that already operate according to European standards and have to work. All that's going on with them, we've talked about it more than once here, and about personal incomes, etc., all these are the results of European agreements and conventions. In both agencies, i.e. the Agency and the Directorate, I am the chairman of the board of directors. In the assembly are Minister Ivica Dacic, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister Oliver Dulic and I. So believe me, they don't need more control. As for some of your personal observations from earlier times about the managers of these companies, I don't think they're standing right now and I'm asking you to focus mainly on criticizing me as a minister, because I'm responsible for their work. Belgrade Airport today is one of the more modern airports in Europe. I made sure myself, since now I'm starting to travel a little bit more. As for the building and the money, someone asked why a loan was given to the Agency building, since it was all in my mandate, and the money went to modernise, or to build the facility that is today one of the most modern in Europe. Third group of questions – Beska. The priority task for me as minister was to do that corridor. Now we've done 180 km in the north, Beška was built at the time, there's no Velje here because we're having a little fight about it, but the preparations were made for their mandates, but the bridge began formally to be built on 8 August 2008 and ended in 1,100 days. The price of Beška, I know what you're interested in, will be established by December 25th. Then the public will know how much was really spent on Beshko. It's not the number you said, Mr. Markovic, but it's the price of Beska and it's understood that the government has to give a concrete answer for every one of your finance issues. I remind you once again, the Beška Bridge was built by the so-called. "Yellow Fiddick," based on an idea project. So the price of Beska will certainly be higher, as the main project is completed during construction. As far as the Ada bridge is concerned, it's a nice facility, Belgrade should have such an object. I wouldn't comment on that. As far as war damage is concerned, in 2000, we had a proposal on how to address these issues of war damage. I wouldn't be talking numbers now, because something's probably changed, but there was a number somewhere around $100 billion. For now, the status of war damage is still intact, but we'll see if we can do something about it. And to answer for Mr. Hotshot. I got the material for that man, I'll call him myself tomorrow morning and talk to him. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't share your opinion that it's a government that doesn't know what it's doing. I also don't share your opinion that this government supports corruption with these laws. It's the other way around. One of the priorities of this government is the way to Europe, but I am, in the best way, proving it, along with the people who work with me, as we understand it. We're building. As you can see, we're building and that's what's going on in the whole government. One more thing that matters to me -- President Tadic. I cannot allow anyone to insult President Tadic, at least not in my presence, because he has given huge support to the affirmation of the traffic infrastructure projects. And not only that, but I am obliged to say that – four full years as president of the National Council for Infrastructure has done much more than most of us, and therefore I ask that we respect it, because it is a man who has great merit for everything we have done in the infrastructure so far. Thank you very much. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63044	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63045	The Nightingale gave me five minutes. I'm a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63046	You spoke nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63047	I always break deadlines, what do I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-08-0.u63048	It is obvious that your directness impotes us to the MPs, and thank you for that. Since we have completed our search on all amendments, I have concluded the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 78 MPs attend the session. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and have working conditions. National MP Momo Colakovic informed me that he was prevented from attending the session, so I am informing you. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, I have also called on today's session, Zlatko Dragoljevljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Zoran Teodorović, Assistant Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Milija Djalović, Head of the Department of Standard Affairs, Construction Land and Legalisation of Objects in the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Zoran Ibrović, Head of Legal Service at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. I thank Mr. Minister and his associates for being with us. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail7. Points of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL BUDGETS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Meho Omerović, Zoran Krasić and together Radojko Obradović and Miroslav Petkovic. You have received the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Zoran Krasic in the same text. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krassic, please.
