ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56726	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the electronic system has established that more than 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We declare on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government. The National Assembly conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, so we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since we have adopted the bill, we are in principle moving to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, submitted by the People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, with a correction. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was 106. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 People's MPs of the successor group Advanced Serbia and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 100 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 102 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was 106. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was filed by the MP of the Oedipus Sheriffs. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly be declared without delay in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 15 June 2011, at 1800 hours, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please let the National Assembly decide on this. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 21 June 2011, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please let the National Assembly decide on this. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 21 June 2011, at 1600 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2) and with regard to Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please let the National Assembly decide on this. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I'm asking you at 11.00 a.m., we're all here to begin our next session. (session is over at 10.45 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56727	REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly Fourth extraordinary session on 27 June 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 11.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56728	I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that 108 MPs attend the sitting, and I remind you that Article 88 is paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for working on the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if the majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting, so I ask you to establish the quorum to place the cards in the MPs' units of the electronic system I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have 126, and that there are conditions for work, in accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2). I shall inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda laws set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I have also called on Deputy Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, to attend the meeting today, and Zoran Cirovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Višnja Kuzmanovic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance, Public Debt Management. You were presented the minutes of the First Regular Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 and the minutes of the Third Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2011, the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 2011 National Assembly in response to parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 and the minutes of the session of the Second Extra session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions, which is in accordance with Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Parliaments has been sent in writing any objection to those minutes, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 2, 3, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30 and 31 March 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 119 were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 2, 3, 7, 8, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30 and 31 March 2011, putting the minutes of the Third Regular Session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2011, held on 31 March, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 28 April and 5 May 2011. Please press the corresponding key. Of 127, 121 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 31 March, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 28 April and 5 May 2011. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current topic, held on 27 April 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 122 were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question, held on 27 April 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 5, 10, 11, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24 and 25 May 2011. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held 5, 10, 11, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24 and 25 May 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the 2011 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 7, 8, 9 and 14 June 2011. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted for the record. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the second edition of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2011, held on 7, 8, 9 and 14 June 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in the request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, second programme loan for the development of public finances, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/A) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Fiat compact guarantee treaty cars Serbia/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Fiat compact guarantee treaty cars Serbia/D between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to conduct a joint single search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a second programme loan for the development of public finances; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/A) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia, - Proposal for a Law on the Law on Guarantee of the Fiat of Cars between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Susana Grubjesic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Of the 133 MPs for Mrs Grubjesic's proposal, 124 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, second programme loan for the development of public finances, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/A) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Fiat compact guarantee treaty cars Serbia/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Fiat compact guarantee treaty cars Serbia/D between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. We move to work on the agenda - a joint single search on the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a second programme loan for the development of public finances, a proposal for a law on the approval of the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on the Guarantee of Fiat Cars of Serbia/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and a proposal for a law on the approval of the Fiat compact cars between Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia/D. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search of the draft law on items 1 to 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I would remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 12 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Ivan Andric, LDP MP Milos Radulovic, DSS MP – Vojislav Kostunica, Dragan Stevanovic, SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 170, Article 157(2) shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, another programme loan for the development of public finances; - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/A) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee of the Fiat Compact of Cars of Serbia/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, and - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee of Fiat of the Cars of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposal's representative want the word? Mr. Kiriq, come in. Minister Ziric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56729	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, dear Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I will take the opportunity at the beginning to address you, the MPs, about what is on the agenda today, and these are the so-called Apeks credits, i.e. the credit line provided by the State and which, as regards the Apeks credit from the European Investment Bank, is 250. Can you just give it a little bit? Gentlemen, I would like to ask for silence. I thank you. Here, I will repeat the opening part to welcome all the MPs who are now in the O.R. and those who are not in the O.R. Today, in front of you, on the agenda, a law confirming the financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. It is a 250m-euro credit line, which will be realised in the next dynamics of 150m this year and 100m euros next year. One hundred million euros will be made available through commercial banks to medium and small enterprises, and 50 million businesses, i.e. companies that have a larger number of workers and a larger size of business. In particular, before I move on to more specific conditions under which the state will be in charge, that is, by which the end-users, ie, medium and small enterprises and large ones will be able to take these loans. I would just say that the sector of medium and small enterprises is the most vital and dynamic sector of our economy, that in this way our medium and small enterprises will be able to withdraw loans, and which was one of the requirements, I would also say applications that the medium and small enterprises sector, i.e. according to the government, would have loans that would have an interest rate of around 5.5%. These are credit conditions, therefore, medium and small enterprises across regular credit lines from business banks cannot win. For these loans, the state provides, of course, a guarantee, but I say, it makes available to our medium and small enterprises loans that have two years of grace and five years of payment. So they allow business banks to place funds to our medium and small enterprises at extremely favourable interest rates, which will allow new investments or expansion of existing production capacities. It's simply very favourable sources of funding, like they really don't exist on the market right now. In particular, as I said, these loans will be granted for a period of seven years, including two years of grace periods with an interest rate that can be variable or fixed. Variable Euribor plus 0.48 or fixed 3%. Once again, this means that end-users, i.e. medium and small enterprises, will have an interest rate that will be about 5.5%. As for larger, or large enterprises, a period of up to 12 years with three years of grace. The interest is Euribor plus 0.6%, which is approximately slightly stronger than 5.5%, but still extremely favourable. An agent in the whole story will be the National Bank of Serbia and some kind of supervisory type. These loans will, once again, be approved, these credit lines will be realised through business banks, and business banks are required to apply and participate in this programme. I say these sources of funding that are extremely favourable will soon be available to our medium and small enterprises after ratification. We insisted that this Apeks line, which next year, as I said, with 150 be expanded by another 100 million, be reactivated. I will remind you that it was current for the simple reason that we are in contact with the real sector, with our businesses, with our businessmen and entrepreneurs have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to provide cheap sources of funding, especially in a situation where we continue to have a crisis, i.e. the problem of indifference. When we have a situation that some companies simply can't get to the cheap sources of funding. On the other hand, we also have today on the agenda of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Contract between the "Fiat Compact Cars of Serbia", i.e. the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The "Fiat Cars Serbia" project, which is due to be invoiced in March, April next year, implies, among other things, the borrowing of a joint company, "Fiat Cars of Serbia", worth 500m euros, of which 300m will provide "Fiat", 200m will also be a loan "Fiat Cars of Serbia", with a guarantee from a state of 200m. The total investment in the new factory will be about a billion euros, around 960m euros, to be precise. Why is this project important and why have we decided to secure this guarantee? For the simple reason this factory, when it starts to work, will have a capacity of 200,000, for starters, cars, with the possibility of expanding to 300,000. What may be most important, apart from the jobs that will be opened or already opened in this factory, we will have exports that will be the order of size, according to the Financial Business Plan, ranging from around 1.3 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros, of which 80% of these exports will be net exports. A brand-new model will be produced in Serbia. The only place to be produced is Serbia, and with the arrival of the Fiat as you can see, it has begun and takes great interest so-called. A component of the car parts that work for the Fiat, a large part of them that have come to Serbia's exports. I'm going to give you an example of "Leonie", "Bleekfermeyer", "Jure" and others who don't work for "Fiat," but it's important they decided to locate their investment in Serbia. The two laws, on the one hand, the credit line from Apexa, on the other hand, represent, in my personal opinion, as Minister of Economy, the real support of the completion of the "Fiat Cars Serbia" project, and on the other hand allows both our medium and small enterprises and large enterprises to, for those who think they should and who want to be in debt under interest rates that are absolutely below any market interest rate they can get from any business bank in Serbia today. I think this will allow for further development of the sector of medium and small enterprises and large enterprises. We should not forget large companies that employ a large number of people. I am truly convinced that this credit line will be used properly. Thank you, and I'm here to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56730	Do the representatives of the committees responsible, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee want a word? If not, I ask if the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. If so, sign up. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56731	In a brief statement by Mr. Ciric, I have not heard that there is much, even if he mentioned it, but I may have missed the noise, a loan, or a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, another programme loan for the development of public finances. I want to start from him right now a story about that we got, right after the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government, which raises the question of fiscal sustainability and stability in our country, we got a proposal on the agenda where we talk about two calls guarantees, but I wouldn't exactly call them guarantees, but maybe a little bit of credit, I'll explain why. We're getting two new loans that I can only praise as something that might help, that's what's called financing small and medium-sized enterprises, and this isn't the first time we've adopted this law, this is the continuity of a kind of help to our economy. Could finally begin arriving at the Assembly with new duties in one of the least possible budget burden projections in terms of public debt. Do we, as citizens of Serbia, as MPs, have the right to know whether Serbia will be able to restore the obligations that we create today at this session of new tasks. This one for maintaining public finances is particularly interesting to me, but also two guarantees you give for "Fiat" and guarantees for "Serbiagas" which will appear at the next session. I'll intrigue the public with your data. For example, since we are talking about two guarantees for "Fiyat", when on the burden of the budget what should not be paid, because it is only a guarantee, so in the end whoever guarantees it is obliged to pay for who it guarantees, in Serbia it has actually become a practice to guarantee in advance that it could eventually fall on the burden of the Republic of Serbia. The evidence is that for the Serbian Roads in 2010 you are from the public company "Serb Railways", and with an explanation to avoid costs caused by delays as well as any potential costs that may arise in connection with the activation of guarantees, you have paid in advance the obligation by which you are not the first debtor. You question the general meaning of a guarantee or cheat us when you say it – this is a guarantee, and you treat these guarantees as if you are in debt on loan. So it doesn't matter if you're raising a loan or guaranteeing someone. How do you explain this to the public of Serbia with a skillful use of words? When someone asks you – do you have any guarantees that have fallen on the burden of the budget, so you have a non-solid debtor who did not pay the loan on his own, you have to settle the obligation, you say so – the Republic of Serbia has used the right to settle the commitments. The right words for this are – the Republic of Serbia has been forced to meet the obligation to guarantee that it will fall on the burden. Do not call guarantee what will go directly to the burden of the budget, because experience teaches us that in the case that I mention in 2010, you paid 143.2m euros for the roads of Serbia and the railway Serbia. For 2009 and 2010, two tranches each, and this is the data that came from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying that you had to come to this house with an assessment of whether we could repay these obligations? On the question – what is the expenditure for the payment of the government debt in 2011 covering expenditure on the payment of the principal for the issued securities of value and the expenditure on the payment of the principal of loans received, the commitment of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 amounts to 410,046,018,000 dinars. So 410 billion dinars without interest, 4.1 billion euros should be paid back in 2011 for already reached principals of credits and for the cost of issued securities. Also, your information. Don't talk about interest. You're not talking about borrowing costs. Serbia's budget is just over eight billion dinars. Half of the budget is just for the big boys this year. That's why I'm asking. You have the Public Debt Administration, what's it for? Does it hide information from us whether we can bring back what we've taken so far or what you're doing today, past these two loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, really question the sustainability of the debt that the Republic of Serbia has? Furthermore, in 2009, the Republic of Serbia, in the case of international financial institutions to finance the budget deficit, means that, for the already created and unsecured costs that local self-government funding laws had increased in 2009, 124.5m euros and net receipts based on auction records amounted to 89 billion, etc. You say net receipts to make it a little easier for us not to know how much those records cost. In 2010, in order to finance the budget deficit and debt, you committed yourself to foreign governments, commercial banks and international financial institutions, 454.7m euros. Furthermore, based on the reported auction records of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, on the name of interest, only what is the direct cost of the budget you paid 4 billion 107.3 million dinars. In 2010, on the basis of the implemented state records of the Republic of Serbia, you paid interest from Serbia's budget of 9.284.971,000 dinars. So in 2009, the release of the record cost 41m euros, and in 2010, only the cost of broadcasting for interest amounted to 92m euros. These are the most reliable data coming from the government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to this, the responsibility of local self-government that we want to help with a different timetable in terms of funding data on their duty on 31 December 2010 is 663m euros. Indemnity of local self-government. I started off at the first of which the costs, i.e. the loans in this year amounting to over four billion euros, about the exact amount of interest we have to pay for the loans already taken, I have no data, I have issued the part that you have provided, I am giving the information about the responsibility of local self-government and I am asking the question – is there one place in the Republic of Serbia where all the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in terms of public debt, internal debt to citizens, old foreign savings and other. What it has as a commitment to abroad in terms of its own obligations it guarantees directly, to those guaranteed indirectly, and whether you, as the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, finally managed to bring together the data from the NBS that currently has the broadest coverage of these obligations. So why are you fooling the public of Serbia? That it is a sustainable debt and that it is still moving within bearable limits around 40-45% of the value of the gross social product, or close to 80% of the gross social product when we look at the entire debt. For a whole year you have been distracting us, there are no nicer and more cultural words, that the IMF loan can't be recorded anywhere that we can't vote on it, and it's being held in the National Bank's books as a loan to pay the interest, but from where it's from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the basis that our claim has been confirmed to the National Bank all along, where ultimately, it has been recognised that by the state of Serbia's guarantee of the National Bank's obligations, it is also guaranteeing the loan behind its obligation. If any of you dare to question it, I, as always, did not hate to read all the minutes of the National Bank of Serbia Council meeting where a content and reasoned debate was held and where it was finally concluded that there must be one place where all the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to all international institutions, commercial banks, foreign or domestic banks and all other creditors should be made in order to know whether we can allow ourselves the luxury of further borrowing. Why do I say the luxury of further borrowing? Here, this loan for sustainability of public finances is very foggy as purpose, sustainability of public finances. Whether these public finances are sustainable, you can't bring it out here, because you don't have an estimate that the Public Debt Administration would give you, which is finally established at our insistence on the adoption of the Budgetary System Act and then the Budget Law for 2010. Here is precisely in the condition that you get this $100 million from the World Bank through the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is exactly that, a borrower, which is the Republic of Serbia whose name the Serbian government has signed this loan must provide, to use this money, to ensure the adequate filling of public debt administration jobs, and to complete the following activities, to establish a comprehensive database, to formulate a public debt management strategy, to give us, if not for our sake, a list of guaranteed obligations of the Republic of Serbia, including a qualitative analysis of the risk of activation of guarantees. You don't have that problem, wine you wait for the guarantee to fall on the burden, you immediately pay out of the budget, it's rich this people, from VAT to buy basic life supplies is the most that budget is full, and you out of it are so easily paying the obligations you have guaranteed. What am I worried about? You are as a borrower, for this loan that you did not want to say, you have committed to establishing and establishing, under the 2011 Budget Law, published in the Official Messenger, on 29 December, amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, and to adhere to the 2011 Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy, where you will take special care of all revenues and expenditures of the general level of government. I conclude that you cannot use this loan under this Agreement, given that the fiscal council, whose opinion has also been binding on the Public Debt Administration, indirectly and the Ministry of Finance and the Government, is to say, and where the missing funds that have been opened by the adoption of such a law have already been opened this year, by the law being in force, as I hear from the amendments, since October. What else do you owe this law to do? To adopt a proposal on social protection, acceptable to the bank, which improves the possibility for vulnerable groups to receive adequate financial assistance based on the application of the so-called. Equivalence scale systems, in line with the dominant practice of the EU and OECD, and to adapt the way in which the funds are allocated. Here's what rarely anyone could repeat as a simple extended sentence, looking for an explanation of whether to withdraw these funds, provided this condition in point 5, that we would not be able to repeat the situation of moving Roma families to Belgrade, when one such sentence in the Agreement, stood, then it turned out that this relocation was a condition for signing the agreement, for using funds on that basis, but that it was quickly run over, and only told the good of one Agreement, this country to Serbia and all of us, later questioned, when it started to check whether loans were used in accordance with the intended conditions? This kind of behavior can simply be called simply by the behavior of someone who has accidentally sat down in a responsible chair, which is called the exercise of power in a long time, where it is not enough to say – this loan is taken for 15 years, for sustainable finance, or for 20 years, and the beginning will be 15 years. But every 15th of April and 15th of October, interest comes and they run immediately. So, the conditions, as tempting as they seem at first moment, this costs. This $100m loan will not even be withdrawn immediately, as 250,000 immediately goes for the cost of the accession fee, access costs at which the total amount of interest payments is also due. You're talking about a guarantee for "Fiat" and you say -- newly opened jobs, they're going to guarantee as "Fiat" a much bigger amount than we do, but you're not saying that out of the total project the first ones that the state of Serbia needs to guarantee are put into realisation. Project "C" and Project "D" under which the state of Serbia should give two guarantees, one of 50m, and the other of 150m euros. This of the 50m euros has a 10-year duration and includes four years of start, and this of 150m euros guarantee for Fiat is at eight years, including in the eight-year period. So do we deserve, at least because we've been listening to the story of the Fiat for four years, to the citizens of Serbia, and how much has it been invested in the Fiat so far? How much do these new jobs cost there, through what's called the State Aid Control Act, which then binds you? How many benefits were given for the arrival of the factory, in terms of the release from future obligations, which were otherwise meant to enter the budget of local self-government? How much of the Republic of Serbia's budget has already been transferred there on several occasions, and how much of it has been paid by the other founder and is it from that and how long will we wait for some income, because I don't believe that it has already been achieved? So, the least we deserve as citizens, and what you're obliged to do as one responsible government, which has a minimum college education and who wants to go to the next election that's recent, so you go out with a simple bill like the host in the house, so it says-- my salary is this big, this much I can live on, I'm going to be left with to settle these obligations, because I'm going to have from the credit that I'm taking today to produce something this much income, and I'm going to see if I can squeeze it, to save myself some time until they get there. You didn't go out with that kind of analysis and you don't deserve to vote for these laws, and I'll discuss the other details later in the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56732	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56733	Thank you. As always, Mrs. Tabakovic, you've asked a lot of questions. I don't know if I've been able to write it all down, but if I don't, I'll get back to you next time. As you know, I will try to answer absolutely any questions. First of all, I would like to return to your question about the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. the second programme loan for the development of public finances. To even sign this contract, then send it to the Assembly, we had to meet certain conditions. So I will now taxfully tell you what we had to fulfill in order for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to sign a contract, or say, yes, we agree that it will be ratified, and it will be available immediately after ratification, or after you, MPs, vote it. Under one, the borrower passed a law amending and supplementing the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act acceptable to the bank. The borrower, now I can tell you in which official messenger, but not to waste my time, has carried out a nominal freeze of salaries for public sector employees at all levels of government by the end of 2010, and adopted a policy for indexing salaries after freezing. Now you have members, so I don't read them. The Borrower adopted a memorandum on the 2011 economic and fiscal policy budget, with projections for 2012 and 2013, which includes all revenues and general government expenditure, identification of fiscal differences, including conditional commitments, medium-term projections of direct budget beneficiaries for three years to come. Four, the borrower took the necessary measures to ensure adequate filling of jobs at the Public Debt Administration and to carry out the following activities. A comprehensive public debt database has been established. I'm about to answer your question about whether there's a centralized place -- it's normal that it's at the Public Debt Administration, or the Ministry of Finance. Also, a comprehensive medium-term public debt management strategy has been developed and delivered to the bank a complete list of eligible banks for guaranteed commitments by the Republic of Serbia, including a qualitative analysis of the risk of guarantee activation. He prepared procedures for the main public debt management activities. Five, the borrower submitted to the National Assembly for adoption of the Bill on Social Protection acceptable to the Bank, which improves the possibility of vulnerable groups to receive adequate assistance, etc. This is a list, it's a little bit more detailed, I've only read the main items, the conditions this country and this government had to do to get the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to sign a contract, that is, to be forwarded to the National Assembly. The second thing, as far as public debt is concerned, I'll remind you, we had a public debt that was about 120 or 130% of GDP at the beginning of last decade, and it is now at a level of about 42-43% of GDP. If it is for the purposes of the discussion, and I think it is, well mentioned, the EU standard, around 60% of GDP can be a public debt. It's something that's sustainable. As far as your issue is concerned about the activation of the guarantee and "The Ways of Serbia" is neither my jurisdiction nor my dealings with it, but as someone who represents the Government, I have an obligation to say that they are obliged, that the Republic of Serbia has been a solid debtor along with "The Paths of Serbia". I will remind you that some of the commitments made by the "Serbian Roads" have come to bear, that they could not be returned and that is why the state has provided guarantees. If I remember correctly, one former director of the Serbian Roads is in prison precisely because he did not properly manage the company, i.e. he apparently broke the law, so he is in prison, he and others. As far as Project Fiat is concerned, I hope we do not give a sign of equality between "The Way of Serbia" and "Fiat". "Serbian Roads" is a public enterprise, and the story with the Fiat is a commercial story. For the guarantee, which is very important, which we give, we guarantee, the loan returns "Fiat – Cars Serbia", where we are minority owners, the state is being provided, a mortgage is being placed, i.e. a mortgage will be placed on new production halls and new equipment. You don't have any better security than that. As far as we're always giving first, that's where you're wrong for the simple reason that the contract provides for everything to happen by first "Fiat" or by guaranteeing or withdrawing funds or giving money, and then the Republic of Serbia follows. It's always perforated, or it's always 33 to 64. So, "Fiat" first invested 100 million cash, if I can put it that way, in almost cash on the bill, so we put in an asset that was estimated at 50 million. The next step, Fiat invests another 100m euros in cash, we give 50m in cash. It's always "Fiat" first, and we're the second. That's important. It happens almost simultaneously, at the same time, but always they, then us. I think they've collated, or the security the Republic of Serbia has sought and received from the Fiat as best possible. As for how much it costs, it costs just as much as the law and regulation. As for the Ministry of Economy and the expenditures we have, we are on a monthly basis delivering information on whether we are in line with the State Aid Act. Any money that goes out of our division goes where it's supposed to go, to be checked whether we're in accordance with the law or not. That's what I'm saying on behalf of my ministry, I won't speak for the other ministries. All the money that's given, one part of the money, I'll remind you, it goes for local infrastructure, it goes for the highway. This highway will serve not only "Fiita" but will serve all citizens and Kragujevac, eventually Serbia and Serbia, and will allow the economic development of the whole region, not only "Fiat Cars Serbia". Local traffic stations will also serve the citizens of Kragujevac and surrounding towns and villages, not only "Fiat Cars Serbia". There is also, related to the pipeline infrastructure that will pass, other than "Fiyat" will also use other, channelling etc. bridges to be made in the surrounding Kragujevac or Kragujevac itself. So, the big investment story should always be watched through the direct effects I mentioned earlier, but also indirect effects: creating jobs in the service sector, raising infrastructure, raising a business environment. Evidence that a multinational corporation like Fiat has decided to create a new model here and only here, and not in Mijafjori, Italy or Poland, where they already make 600,000 cars, says they've estimated it's good to invest here. I have to say something about incentives. Never in itself are incentives the only reason anyone comes and invests in the country of Serbia. This also takes into account the labour force, qualifications, availability, attractiveness of the tax system, infrastructure, etc. The gross borrowing that the state had and why we are now 42.43%, refers to the World Bank borrowing, and the IBAD for infrastructure development, to the end of Corridor 10. The second question is why some parts of infrastructure work run slowly. Could it have been faster? It could have, but the fact that the gross borrowing went right to infrastructure development. Also, one more thing to say about public debt. According to the data I have, and if I'm wrong, I apologize, you will correct me, I am convinced, there is no country in Europe that has not had a budget deficit in times of crisis. The budget deficits do not have Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, oil - bearing countries, so they have huge revenues from oil or gas or some mining wealth. So, I don't know of an example of an EU country, which in times of crisis did not finance its being through borrowing, i.e. creating a budget deficit. We're at about 4% level. You have EU countries with budget deficits of 6, 7, 8, 9% because it is the only way to finance, if I may say so, the functioning of the state in times of crisis. As you know, we adopted the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which envisions the level of the budget deficit, as it will move this year, next year, etc., reduction by 1% per year. I don't want to speak on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, but I'm going to take that freedom to say that the Ministry of Finance has a precise record of what guarantees are issued for, which is what credits are taken for, and ultimately, what they're used for. The guarantee we're giving for the realisation of this loan for "Fiat" is a debt. It becomes a public debt of the moment if activated. I'm sure he won't, but you have to, as a minority owner in this case, "Fiat Cars Serbia" to take some responsibility for yourself and say yes, I'm sure the story of "Fiat Cars Serbia" will be successful and I'm ready to stand behind that story. This speaks of responsibility and seriousness in this case of the Republic of Serbia as a minority owner. I think I did, at least I tried to answer most of your questions that you had, and I'm here to keep answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56734	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56735	Thank you. It's really necessary for a replica. You said a 33-to-100-percent relationship should be maintained at all times. I don't know if you've made a lapus, but in the light of this guarantee, it says nicely – the condition for the withdrawal of the tranche, that the relationship withdrawn from the tranche under the financial contract by the elements of the contract and (a) and (b) is never more than 35%, 33, 35, 2% in the equity share is significant. I don't mean to judge anything by this precision, but I have at least two more things to say. Is this guarantee going to turn into a loan? Experience teaches us that these guarantees fall on the burden of budgets and pay off from there. Experience teaches us that the DRI established a disagreement between the public debt situation of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, where the National Bank had a wider, more correct scope, and the Ministry of Finance did not show, on the side of the 43rd report of the Board of Governors, the responsibility of local self-government and treated the public debt of the public sector and what is called public debt. All in all, when these and such companies, which are on the budget register, are making a loss, and it is being settled with such a guarantee over the budget, all of this eventually falls on the burden here and is one mass of the total public debt. You say you had to meet the conditions to get this 100 million loan, not the infrastructure. For infrastructure, we just wonder if the money is spent where it's intended: deadlines, dynamics, conditions. This is for the sustainability of public finances. It was signed on May 27th, you today passed a law that disrupts the condition you agreed to here, disrupt fiscal sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56736	Minister Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56737	Thank you. As for the money for the infrastructure, specifically the loans that were taken, the spending of money is not just us, controlled by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Tenders being conducted, tender commissions forming exactly these institutions and controlling the spending of money, so it's absolutely not possible that these money was spent on not knowing what else, not infrastructure. As far as the guarantee is concerned, I said that the guarantee would become public debt at the moment if it was activated. It happened as far as "The Way of Serbia", but that's why some respond, because they did their job the way they did, or they didn't do it. I said this is my opinion and not that I don't want to, but I can't put a sign of equality between "Fiat Cars Serbia" and "The Way of Serbia". I am convinced that this guarantee we are giving to withdraw a loan for equipment that will be installed in "Fiat Cars Serbia" will never be turned into a debt, or that guarantee will not be activated. That's my opinion. Of course, we can disagree. I'm sure it won't come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56738	The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56739	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing another set of borrowings for the Republic of Serbia. as an MP from Novi Pazar, from Sandzak, I immediately ask myself the question: of the many billions of euros in debt, which is the percentage of the citizens of Tutina, Novi Pazar and a few other municipalities in our region? That percentage would be 1,000, I don't know how many zeros and maybe eventually some one. Many times I have said here that the economic policy measures we adopt here and for which I voted as an MP from this region, I voted in favour of this law that will help local self-government, as you know, a percentage of 70% of Belgrade's earnings will be the most, that is what I said and when we talked about this law, we vote for both Belgrade and Kursumlia for Bor and Majdanpek and for all others, and what an impact it will be on employment in Novi Pazar. As you know, we have the highest rate of employment, not in Serbia, but almost in Europe. We have discussed many times that the government needs to analyse the measures that it brings about the incentive for someone to come and invest in Sandzak, specifically in Novi Pazar and other municipalities, and we have seen that the measures that we have taken simply do not yield results. We voted the same for these measures, we felt that when we promised 10,000 euros to the foreign investor that it would affect the employment rate in our region. The analysis says this: not that we didn't hire new ones, but if you take and analyze the degree of layoff, so those who work, you have thousands and thousands of fired workers and you don't have new employment. I've been asking you here for a few years -- gentlemen, if we can't hire new ones, let's make sure we don't fire those who are already working. You're convincing me here that through the Development Fund, we're going to give new loans and we're going to hire. So some who already have nou hau and work 30 and a few years in that bad and worst infrastructure, in those worst conditions, are struggling to survive. That's why I'm telling you, if we don't have a solution for new employment, give us a set of measures to adopt in this House to help people overcome this situation, not to fire those already employed. It won't be our pilot project. There are countries that have already done this. In fact, they gave firms thousands or 2,000 euros in a transitional period not to fire workers. Therefore, for parts of Serbia that have specific needs, we must also have specific programmes. Of course, and this 10,000-euro programme for new employment is something specific because it initially referred to a couple of municipalities and now we've expanded it and I've welcomed that measure several times. As you know, I vote all the laws and all the agreements when it comes to helping Kursumlia, when we have to vote for Bor, to give him 137 million, the same. We welcome that. But I don't see that we have a clear concept for this problem that we have. Therefore, I am also taking this opportunity to use this opportunity on behalf of the citizens of Novi Pazar, whom there are nearly 30,000 young people without work, without a job, to urge the government to come out with a single employment programme as soon as possible, giving priority to the problem of firing workers. I suggest you set the figure, since I've heard here that our debt is about 42%, and therefore I ask you to have an average of 60% in the EU that we can borrow, if we don't already have money in the budget that we simply owe 1% or 0.5% for some measure that will simply encourage employment in Sandzak. One of the classic answers why investors won't come to Sandzak is – you don't have a good infrastructure. You know well that Kursumlia has no airport, no highway, no many infrastructure projects, but when we say it in the Serbian government that it is a national and state interest to help there because 500 people strike and block the municipality for months, then "Simpo" comes and says it will open there 300, 400 or I don't know how many jobs. That's what we welcome and say that that's how Simpo and Bambi and Serbia Gas and all those who can do it and that in some way our government is affected by it, since it can't affect foreign investors. What we're offering, these 10,000 euros, is simply a very small incentive. What little we produce in Sandzak you know that we are transporting, and it is well known that the railway is the cheapest transport, and I have spoken here many times that 100 years ago, the railways came to Raška and 26 to seven kilometers has been traveling for hundreds of years to Novi Pazar. Is that a number that's a problem for a country that's been in debt for billions already? As you know, I also asked for a report that we once heard in this House about how many grants we received from the EU, how much we were in debt. Since I haven't heard it properly here, I've read Mr. Deger's statement and we've seen how many grants we've received, how much we've been in debt and how many foreign investments. So somewhere near 20 billion. Of the 20 billion, there's certainly no church for the New Market. I think it's high time that the government actually sat down, formed within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, a working group that, I say, will deal with this problem and try to solve this acute problem which in this region, in the end, is transformed from economics into other forms. We're talking about this, I mentioned this railroad, that it really is from the point of view of these billions of times such a problem that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not say before but since 2000 so it cannot solve. There's a project documentation, the CIP did it. The government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement. I say again, we have one example but neither does it work, here is the second year, an agreement with Turkey on a 30m-dollar loan for the reconstruction of the Tutin-Novi Pazar-Senica-Aginovici road and not until today, although we have ratified this agreement here in parliament, there is nothing from that agreement. So I call upon the authorities to consider that it is extremely incorrect that something we have done for two years now, that one task relating to Sandzak, and that task will not be effectively realised. Therefore, this problem really burdens all Sandzak citizens, and I am indeed giving another appeal to the government that it is high time to respond adequately, I asked Mr. Kiric, the minister, the day he was elected here, told him that the problem exists, invited him to co-operate, introduced him to all the problems that exist in Sandzak, and that the government had to give priority to something in that area, most underdeveloped, to make the economic situation better. Usually statistics don't adequately express what happens on the economic plan in Sandzak, because we have regions, so you analyze the average of the region, according to this last law, so you have a district, so the Sandzak municipalities don't belong to one district, so when you statistically break it down, then you don't get a number for these six municipalities in an adequate way. When I don't vote, you put the card on. That's what this is about. I tried to be late a few times, and I saw right at the beginning of this term...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56740	People's MPs, I ask you without direct address... (Bajram Omeragic, from the place: I welcome you too, Mr Andric... ) National MPs are forbidden to address other MPs directly, it is prohibited by the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, and by the way, I remind you of the provision of Article 106, and I ask you to speak of the agenda, since you have not done so in these 11 minutes. So, all that you've put into the context of one of Serbia's parts, to be in any connection with the agenda points. National MP Ivan Andric will be entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56741	Chairman, since you're warning me, I've been taking a two-time break because I'm being distracted, three times they're loudly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56742	People's MP, I didn't warn you, but I can. So, I just remind you of the obligations we all have under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP is obliged to speak on the agenda, the MP is forbidden to address other MPs directly, the MP does not comment if he is interrupted by the chairman, to which the chairman has the right and to remind the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So, please, until the end of time that's at your disposal on the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56743	Now, I welcome all the letter members of our coalition, so they don't interrupt me another time. To continue, we have proposed to the Government, as you know, many times to do something in our area of tourism, given that we have investments in the area of tourism, where the state has invested quite well, as you know in the Old Mountain and in some other parts of Serbia. We were talking about doing something in Golia. As you know, there's a protected environment, where they protect bears, foxes and all the rest of the plant and animal world, but people go. Therefore, since it is in the jurisdiction of the same Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, yes, in that sense, because it is part of overall economic development. This task will be another burden for our country, but the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak will vote for this law, as I said, we will vote for the reason that from this figure, for these companies very little will go to companies in Sandzak, because their duty is now such that surely these commercial banks, through which these funds will be placed, will not be able to meet these criteria. That is why I call on the government to work on a programme to prevent further layoffs until we get better infrastructure and we motivate foreign partners to come and open factories in our region, as they do in Kragujevac, as they do everywhere in Vojvodina, in Loznica, in Prokuplje, in all other regions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except in Sandzak. This situation does not go hand in hand for one more reason, given that we are approaching the EU and we are working on making this path as short as possible, we are making our contribution as possible, but with such regional differences this path will be difficult. Many times, European partners warn us that regional differences of 10-1 are really slowing down our European pathway, and I think this exposure will also help to form a working group as soon as possible. I would be pleased if it were and it were best to be an inter-resour working group for the economic development of Sandzak, and if not, if at least within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, to do what we do faster and come up with a set of measures that will speed up economic development and prevent a further increased unemployment rate in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56744	It was used 15 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. He also answered the words of Minister Nebojsa Ciric, and MP Ivan Andric has the right to reply. The Rules of Procedure obliges me to give the minister a word first.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56745	Thank you. That's how it turned out. Just a few answers, or clarifications. I see absolutely every suggestion as well-intentioned, and this is and your suggestions are going towards trying something in the New Market, the whole end. As you know, the two of us have had specific conversations more than once. You've been on a meeting with us at the Ministry. As for some, to call them systemic measures, we almost two years ago brought in measures that, with twice the incentives, were designed to attract a larger investor in Novi Pazar. That, unfortunately, we didn't make it. We also had attempts to solve the problem, related to "TK Raska", "Vojin Popovic" etc. and triggering tourist potentials. I have to say, the unemployment rate is over 30 or 35 to 36%, it's not big, it's huge, and it is a problem not only, of course, in the first place, the problem of people living there, but also the problem of the entire government. I can publicly say, I agree with you, let's try to build some interresour group. This cannot be solved by a single minister or a small group of people. This must be an initiative that will be accepted by and more ministers and received comprehensive support. The fact is that some investors bypass some parts of Serbia due to lack of infrastructure. That's why the idea of building roads and modernising the road network and rail networks is just trying to convince some investors to come. It's really not an easy job. To go back to my previous exposure, incentives aren't enough in themselves. They're just one piece of the puzzle that refers to yes, we managed to bring some investor into some part of Serbia. It's just one part of the story and it's very clear and beautiful on the case of the New Market. Just because we've failed so far doesn't mean we won't, and it certainly doesn't mean that we've given up on doing something in the New Market, away from it, but it's easy, it's not easy. I say once again, I agree that we should make some kind of interresour working group and try to make some proposals concrete on both your part and ours and some other people who would take part, to actually make some concrete result. Everything we negotiated with you in New Market and tried to do obviously didn't work out, or it worked to a lesser extent, didn't give the results we all expected together. So I hope that in the next period we will be more successful, and you know that I am personally absolutely open to any kind of suggestion and suggestion on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56746	National MP Ivan Andric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56747	I support everything my colleague said from Sandzak. I support and would immediately give a suggestion to the Prime Minister present. I suggest you set up an office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas and appoint a minister at its head without the portfolio of Sulejman Ugljanin. I'm not sure, but I think that this office at least fictitiously exists, we think it exists, for three years now, so all of these suggestions, please somehow allow Mr. Ugljanin to start working on the realization of all these projects that his MP was talking about. I have one proposal for a police minister who I think would help if nothing, at least in this development of this railway from Raska to Novi Pazar, which is to determine who illegally adopted or, in a folk dictionary, stole 18m euros while in power in Novi Pazar for what the current government is accusing, a working group has been formed that found to be missing 18m euros. I'm sure if you can get that money back, it'll be easier for you to build this railroad from Raska to Novi Pazar. I also think that the director of the office for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, Sulejman Ugljanin, can help you, since he was the mayor at the time when the 18m euros went missing. I think it's a clear map on which to look for a solution to these problems in Sandzak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56748	The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56749	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the United Regions' Parliament Club of Serbia will support the ratifications of the financial laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to point out that Commissioner Tabakovic has a partial right to worry about what the borrowing money is for, and in that sense I understand a part of her discussion. However, it should know that the government's budget plan for this year envisioned this loan from the World Bank, so this is not some new loan but is essentially meeting the budget deficit funding plan. I think that Minister Ciric explained great that Serbia's budget deficit of 4% is one of the smallest in Europe in times of crisis and that essentially all countries in the crisis have a budget deficit, except for those with some natural resources such as oil, and in this sense it is clear that the budget deficit should be covered. If it is already covered, it is better to cover itself with a loan from the World Bank, which is long-term, which is over 20 years old, where the interest rate is the lowest than to borrow on the domestic capital market where interest rates are much higher. In part, I understand the concern, but it's essentially unfounded when it comes to this first loan. As far as the other two guarantees are concerned, I think it is very good that today it is on the agenda to support employment through the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in this sense it is important that borrowing does not go towards public spending which is irrational, and in borrowing or guarantees are used to support employment or support investment, export economy, such as the "Fiat Car Serbia", then it is more than justifiable to the team before it is certainly clear that the biggest problem is the current Serbian economy, not only now but in the last 20 years, a huge external trade deficit. The external trade deficit cannot be closed overnight, but it is possible for such investments, such as "Fiatova" to contribute to increasing significant exports and thus to reduce the deficit. Fiat's investment is certainly important for Serbia because of two basics. First, it is the first major industrial project in Serbia to contribute significantly to export growth. Secondly, he himself fixed the image of Serbia not only with Italian investors but generally with all serious investors. As a result of this investment, other Italian companies have invested not only in the automotive industry, the component industry, but also in the textile industry. You know there's a Beneton, there's a Calcedonia. The Golden Lady has three factories. Essentially, we managed to repair our external trade balance significantly in the first four months of this year with Italy, and for the first time in the last twenty years we have been covered by exports to Italy with 94% in the first four months of this year. I wish it were with all the other countries in the world. Last year, the coverage of Serbia's total imports was 58%, which has been the highest level of export coverage so far, but it is clear that this is still insufficient and still has to be done. Here, in the first four months, it's generally 59%. The average of 59% of Italy has indeed become the largest export market and the degree of coverage of imports with exports is now 94%, which is what we should strive for with all other countries. Otherwise, Serbia's total exports last year amounted to 7.4 billion euros. This year we have 31% growth in the first four months of this year. What is important is the fact that the Fiat project itself will achieve half a billion euros in exports next year, and in 2013 about a billion and 300 million, which means that only one factory in Serbia, which is why it is important to support that it be built as soon as possible, that the equipment is installed, only one factory in Serbia will reject nearly one fifth of the total Serbian exports from last year. That is why this guarantee is important, and therefore the United Regions of Serbia will support this guarantee. I think it is justified that both MPs and citizens are asking how much Fiat's investment costs, however, I can say that the most expensive, that those investments were gone. It would have been much more expensive if nothing had been done, if Serbia had remained a country behind an existing economic structure compared to this model where we are changing the active economic structure. I am proud that this contract was concluded during my term as Minister of Economy and indeed Mr. Ciric is doing a great job. In this sense, the Fiat and its arrival in Serbia were a turning point not only for Kragujevac, but for the overall industrial policy of the whole of Serbia. There's a lot of talk about how we need an export-oriented model of economic growth. It's written a lot about it. A lot of theories on this topic in Serbia were. This is the first practical thing that has pulled Serbia's industrial development, since we cannot expect significant export growth from existing businesses. Of course, they can export more too, but they can't go on so much that one day we would have covered a complete external trade deficit, or that we would have a uniform import with exports. The only way to do that is to get these big investors and then their chain of suppliers. Similarly, the Slovaks did from 2000 to 2006. Slovakia was a country like Serbia in 2000, with a huge external trade deficit. At that time, the Slovaks covered only 50% of imports with their exports, similar to Serbia has the situation today, and then during Finance Minister Miklos they managed to turn it completely in just six years to create an external trade surplus. So it took Slovakia six years to transform its industry from one position of a huge deficit to make a surplus. How did they do it? They didn't do it by existing Slovak companies, they brought in "Fiat", they brought in "Hundai", they brought in "Pezo Citroen", so three giants from the world's automotive industry. They also brought in Panasonic and Samsung electronics, and these were then the generators of the arrival of other companies from IT industry, components from the automotive industry and of course components from the power of electronics. In this way, in just six years, they managed to export multinational companies to make larger exports than imports and close their foreign trade balance completely. I believe that Serbia is able to do the same, but we need more Fiata. If someone says it's a little bit that we only have one "Fiat," it's true. I agree, this is just the beginning. We can't settle for that, but it's important that we help this investment start giving its effects as soon as possible. I was in Kragujevac and I saw the construction site of the Fiat factory. The state has invested significant funds in the reconstruction of the factory, because this is where our workers will work. In the spring of 2,444 workers will have a job in "Fiat", currently around 1,000 of them. The former "Grošnica" barracks was converted a few days ago into a car park for "Fiyat" suppliers, and there will be four companies that will employ around 1,000 additional workers and will be invested 100m euros. Three other factories are located at the home location, so a total of seven components from the first round will be located in Kragujevac himself, among many components will work on other locations. Currently, the autocomponent industry in Serbia is working over a hundred companies. Many of them have worked before, but some have come, and the largest, the ones most exporting right after the arrival of Fiat. Minister Ciric mentioned some of them. For example, "Jura," she had several factories right in Slovakia that I was talking about. After Fiat arrived, they decided to start investing in Serbia and they opened up for a year, which I think is a really big venture, even three of their factories -- one in Raca, the other in Nis and the third, here at the end of the summer, in August, going to work, produce and cable, or cable for car cables. If you look at foreign trade statistics, and I see that Ms Tabakovic regularly consults both yearbooks and statistics, you will see that the growth of autocable exports is growing drastically. This year alone, from the export of autocables, we will have incomes of 120m euros in Serbia, which is good, we have three companies currently, one in Zrenjanin "Drester-Mier" who came first, "Leoni" in Prokuplje and "Jur" which is currently in Raca and Nis, and most likely will build the fourth factory in Leskovac. This means that the arrival of the basics of these companies draws and the development of autocomponents. Why are autocomponent factories important? They are important because Fiat, apart from exporting cars from Kragujevac, will be the brand-new model to start serial production in the spring of next year, obtaining as much as 5% of its total purchases in the world from companies located in Serbia. That's about a billion euros worth of autocomponents that Fiat, Fiat's central will buy for their other factories in the world from factories in Serbia. It's not just these reminders that work directly for Fiat now, it's everyone else who's located. So I think the question -- how much does Fiat's investment cost, actually, is a false dilemma. The most expensive thing would have been if nothing had happened and happiness was that through this system of incentives that the government then agreed in 2008, we were able to motivate Fiat to give up their plan to build a factory in Romania at the last minute, because it was their original plan and to come to Serbia. The time will pass, governments will change, I believe that in April 2008, when the first Fiyate memorandum was signed, when actually the Fiat people decided to come to Serbia, will indeed be recorded as a turning point in the development of Serbia's overall industry and a shift in the development model towards greater export orientation. As regards the loan, i.e. the guarantee for the loan of the European Investment Bank to small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a good loan. Not only is it favourable and draws a very low interest rate and a long payment deadline with a grace period, all of the previous loans of this type that were, and we have already had several such contracts, were very requested by small and medium-sized enterprises. This loan directly helps hire people, because millions of people today work in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and precisely serious small and medium-sized enterprises through this design will be able to obtain favourable loans. In this way, the government no longer needs to have its own anti-crisis measures, because instead of the Government lending small and medium-sized enterprises through a bank support programme, banks will now be able to use this loan coming from the European Investment Bank to do the same. What I also want to say to this occasion is one dilemma about Fiat's investment was running through these assembly benches at one of the previous sessions. Some lawmakers have been expressing a dilemma -- what will Fiat do with the fact that Serbia cannot currently export cars to the Russian market? It's a question some have asked, I want to try this dilemma once and for all to be removed. In fact, a total capacity of 200,000 cars is intended exclusively for the European market and the US market. If, meanwhile, and that would be good, Serbia could make an arrangement with Russia and, possibly, provide a contingent of an additional 100,000 cars for the Russian market, it would be a motive for Fiat to invest in the expansion of capacity for an additional 100,000 cars. The fact is that today Serbia cannot export cars without customs duty and spare parts, but cars cannot go to the Russian market, absolutely not jeopardising this initial investment by Fiat, which is planned for the capacity of 200,000 cars per year. If Fiat wanted to expand and expand capacity to possibly 300 000 or more cars, then it would certainly be welcome to agree with the Russians on a possible car exporting contingent. In that sense, I believe that efforts should be made, and MPs of the opposition and MPs of the ruling coalition, government and all who can possibly try with the Russian Federation to create an arrangement that would allow for further expansion of the capacity of our factory, Fiat's factory in Kragujevac. That would be useful for us, and it would be useful, I'm convinced for Russia, too. What is very important, and without it, for several years to come will surely require a factory in Kragujevac to reach this first installed capacity of 200,000 cars, so that there is time to increase that capacity later, in possible negotiations. Of course, we hope, given that the car they're going to be carrying out, which belongs to the so-called so-called. Multifunctional cars, i.e. "Malti perples likl", they will certainly have a good pass on the European market. The more these cars are sold, of course, will be larger production. What is also important, some MPs have said earlier -- how it should be bought by citizens of Serbia. No, really a very small part of those cars will go to our market. Our market, we have to be objective, it's very small. We're a small country. We only have eight million inhabitants and we don't have the power to buy that kind of car. Neither was the aim of this investment a domestic market, but of exports. What must certainly be clear is that Serbia has no chance to reverse the medium economy if only domestic demand is based. The domestic demand certainly needs to grow. An additional result can be achieved on the domestic market, but without attacks on world markets, without major exports, we can tell really empty stories about what to do. This is the key. When someone says, let's have a stable course. Rarely anyone knows that exactly the external trade deficit is the biggest generator of macroeconomic instability. When the country imports more than it exports, then the deficit is covered through borrowing, or through revenues in privatisation. The only way for the country to really no longer be in need of debt is to close the external trade balance but not through a reduction in imports, but through a drastic increase in exports. This is why the URS supports all these guarantees that the government gives, above all, towards Fiat, and then towards the EIB. Finally, I would like to say something in the end about my colleague Omeragic's dilemma. Unfortunately, but that is true, there is no measure that can help, not only Sandzak, but to the entire Western Serbia, all parts of eastern Serbia, except for the construction of good traffic stations. There is no loan that will motivate someone to go into an area that is not linked to Belgrade and the EU – whether it is Sandzak, whether it is eastern Serbia, whether it is a border post in Vojvodina, is the basis for infrastructure development. Certainly, apart from the new export-based industrial policy, there are four more things to be done, firstly, to provide adequate infrastructure. According to us from the URS, the priority is building a highway to western Serbia, then a regional highway in eastern Serbia. That's two key things. Of course, and the highway from Pojat to Preljina through Pomoravalje. In this way, other parts of our country, not just places along Corridor 10, are given a chance for some serious investors to come to them. It won't help if there's no good way. It is also necessary to think about the energy structure. Serbia will not have enough power for its own needs in five years, let alone for export, unless new hydropower plants are built and the energy supply issue is resolved. The other factors that are important certainly are the business climate, above all the shortening, and significantly, the issue of building permits, political stability is important and, of course, the rule of law, i.e. faster work of courts. Can all this be done by this government? I don't think so. Let me tell you right now, by the end of the term of office, this won't happen in a year. But this is a job for all of us who are going to get citizens' support tomorrow so that what is not done is done by someone else. I am fully aware of what the problems are, what needs to be done, I know that some of these things will not be resolved in the term of office of this government. But what it wants to be resolved in this government's mandate is to lay the foundation of industrial policy, and that is precisely because of these proposals from the Ministry of Economy on the ratification of loans for the "Fiat", but also of course the Ministry of Finance's proposal to support small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why the U.S.S. will vote for all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56750	Thank you. The right to replica has Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, so Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56751	Thank you. As soon as possible. Speaking of deficits, yes, all countries today have a deficit and it is this sustainability loan of public finances included in the budget, as one of the sources for covering the deficit. But he did question the terms of use. Why is there a deficit? I'll only go with one specific piece of information. We agree that employment is like a paid-up demand for people who can buy cars tomorrow and buy fuel and any products from that industrial policy that should arise, that they are the only solution for reducing deficits and for developing those industrial export-oriented branches, etc. But if, from 2001 to 2007, what have I collected data from international institutions to solve employment problems, or unemployment, 30m euros have been spent, and we do not have any new job that is related to these costs, that we do not have the effects of this and so much invested money, is it a shame to go to this assembly and the public with the exact figures that have been invested in the "Fiat" so far and to see how much longer we will wait for the grapes to start giving birth? So planning, programming, and effects that are meant to produce fruit are not a secret to hide. We might have different priorities. Yeah, we would have had it for sure. Agriculture, processing industry. But, okay, industrial policy is something that's been destroyed and for 10 years nothing has been done to encourage it. Come out with an exact calculation of how much it costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56752	The word is from Mr Ivan Andric, the authorised representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56753	I'm sorry the minister left. I guess he had other obligations, big or small, but good. What I have to resent at first, that's the thing when it comes to economics, that it's hard to kidnap the impression that the economy has been partially pitched with us in a certain way. Here, now that this law is being discussed, first one minister from G17 Plus, now the second, chairman, the head of the parliamentary group who speaks for the sake of the law speaks with more ferocity than the current minister, since both the president of the party and all of this leaves one bad taste in the pre-election campaign, extremely untasteful. But what do we do? That's the country we live in. A lot's already been said. I wouldn't stick around on those things that I think are less important. I still believe, no matter how politically we disagree, and economically, that perhaps the representatives of the government in these negotiations have tried to make the best possible conditions for the country, so that now we can discuss some things that we cannot possibly change with the content of these contracts, it is no longer important. I think this is an opportunity to talk about something that's hard to talk about, except when it comes to borrowing, which is about the country's economic policy. I think you should have put the agenda and the debt point of seven or eight billion dinars you're going to make by adopting the law today at 10.00 hours, so we could discuss it, not in September or October when we're going to fill a hole in the budget that you've done successfully today, voting for this law at 10.00 hours. What's clear from the representative's speech, I have to look back on it, so I'm going to talk about the laws of the ruling party's representatives, it's that everyone has some kind of opposition to the government's economic policy. We listened shortly before to one MP who has been in the ruling majority since there was a multi-party in Serbia, with a short period of time, who, with such a ferocity and opposition energy, is talking about the government's economic policy, specifically by investing in one region in Serbia, as if he himself was not an accomplice to all this, for 11 years, thank you fellow Krasic. It's just, at first glance, it looks untasteful, uncultural. We made a complaint about it, but it essentially shows what even the ruling majority thinks about the economic policy they run, regardless of what parties they come from, except that some parties are more disciplined than others. So we have two groups today of borrowing proposals. I will agree with the opposition's predecessors that it is important that this first part applies to the possibility of small and medium-sized enterprises launching or restoring their production, however you wish, to be in charge under some conditions that are more human than those currently offered to them. I'm sorry that the minister left because I think the key question under which they, small and medium-sized enterprises, will eventually be able to get those loans and use them. It's not just about interest. He said in his reasoning of the law about interest, but what we are interested in is also the conditions under which enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to take these loans and the way they will be able to spend them and invest in their development, growth, or simple maintenance. I think the situation in Serbia today is such that if you are a small or medium-sized enterprise, you can only get credit in case you don't need it. When you meet all the preconditions of a bank that banks commercially place before you, to get credit, it just means that you didn't need one moment. Such are the preconditions that rule with us. I am sorry that there can never be a serious debate about the economic policy of small and medium-sized enterprises. We, as an LDP parliamentary group, insisted on such a one-time conversation, but he simply never came to Serbia's assembly. The reason for this is very simple and said earlier by former Minister Dinkic that over a million people work in small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. That's more than hundreds of Fiats, hundreds of Yuris, Benetons, whatever this is all about. It's the driving force of this country, not these, it's the driving force of every country. The issue of unemployment cannot be solved by major state projects, a delusion all civilized countries have given up long ago. It can only be solved by enabling normal business conditions and by failing the natural human initiative of every man to take care of himself, so that the state will not make it any more difficult for him to do so in any way, except for the one who is beyond the necessary, and it concerns some respect for some basic rules. If we look at it, it's the way the government thinks. He's clear. So, 250m euros, we can banalise it, which the state has provided for millions of employees at the same session and 500m euros for a thousand and some employees who will be able to reach up to 2600 employees with the best fulfillment of all wishes. So more than a double sum of money for 2600 people compared to a million people working on the other side. That sounds banal, but I think that if Fiat had realized all the dreams of former Dinkic and sold 200 thousand vehicles in Europe next year, and if all component manufacturers came to the Kragujevac area or the Kragujevac City Assembly and started working there, there would never be more than five or six thousand people associated with their business related to Fiat. Everything else would be completely inefficient, irrational, and as far as we know, no foreign company would do business in that way. So "Fiat" came here for a few reasons. One is certainly one that no one mentions, which is that "Fiat" was already here. So, at that time, many of us weren't, if I wasn't wrong or born, and some were very young, so it's not now, when G 17 came into existence then and "Fiat" came to Serbia and it's simply not that situation, we have to be realistic. Some previous experience bound them here and that was the basic reason for starting the conversation. We supported you in this, and there is no problem, nor do we have a dilemma about whether the "Fiat" in Serbia is good or not. It's good for a thousand reasons, for a thousand reasons. However, it frees no one from responsibility for the money the state spends on the project. The fact that some sacred goal justifies the means is not valid in this business. It may be true in some others, but we lived in the '90s when certain sacred goals were an excuse for everything and for all behavior, so it turns out that if you don't create a normal system, especially economically, as it is known in the civilized world and don't follow in all fields the economy and economy to free and this one bringing in the "Fiyat" that may have depended on the personal energy of one or two people in the government. If the whole system isn't developing in that direction, all we're doing is being free and this isn't going to be a guarantee, it's all debts. Our objections can go several ways. One is this vehicle production plan, which is served here as if it's some kind of plan in some sense, if that factory is capable, if it's going to be able to produce so many vehicles. We don't need to be interested in that. We need to be interested in a serious assessment, if we're already investing money in it or we're asked to support it, how much this factory will be able to sell those vehicles. Is the number of 200,000 sold vehicles in the EU next year for a vehicle that doesn't exist realistic, I don't think so, but you can have a second opinion about it, we can argue. But making your optimal wishes, evaluations and performing in a parliament that requires more guarantees for 200 million simply is not rational and should not be a manners of the serious behaviour of responsible politicians in Serbia. That's a plan. We can help in various ways to make this plan happen or happen. But it's just a plan. The point is what's going to happen or what's happened so far. So far, we know that the whole project is in one big delay because of the crisis if I'm not mistaken. It was at the beginning of the dilemma. That project was also shaken. It was a question of whether it would be realized or not. It's a good thing it's gonna come true in the end. It's good for you, too, that first compact car, that second word in English, I can't say, any success or anything. That this car will be built before the election campaign starts, you'll still be able to ride in the column, like with those Ficas last April, and that's all good. But we don't have to go in or put the state in too much debt because of it, and we don't have to focus all our strength on that one thing, and then if these things don't exist, we need to stop collapse and avoid our political responsibility for it. We think that two points, these first two, are much more important in our order. It's loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. We can only regret that the fact that this credit is not big enough and we can regret the fact that the simple supply of solutions that the government offers to the problem, the functioning of our country's economic life is very superficial. The minister or former Minister Dinkic, however, spoke, as she gave a political framework for what we are talking about, so we have to talk to him, he set an example for Slovakia in which an export application was made. I don't mind jam, but really music. (President: Please turn off your mobile phones, that is at least a small measure of courtesy. Excuse me, Mr. Andric. ) The minister gave some kind of political framework by comparing Serbia with Slovakia. Unfortunately, I think he's one part right. Of course it's true what he said about Slovakia, but he ignored a whole series of moves that were also happening in Slovakia. So, we can now discuss everything he said, but it's just there to say everything was somehow different. It was a stable country that is going very clearly and quickly on the European path, which has become a NATO member, thus confirming its political stability, economic stability, credit stability, it behaves, the government in Slovakia of those years, which Minister Dinkic is talking about in the diametric opposite of how our government behaves today. Despite that desire to support such ideas. It's our duty to point out other things that are missing. So, above all, they are missing in the process of European integration. In 2006 and 2007, the foreign minister did not explain to the Slovenian country that he had nothing to look for in NATO in the EU and that he should seek his second time, as our Foreign Minister explains to us every day, that there is fatigue of material in the EU, that they will not really. So, of this symbolic example, since I don't think the president of the Association of tennis professionals is an important figure in our policy, but simply he is at the foreign minister's post, I can even see that he is engaged in the economy, as it is said now popular, that something is considered. But there's just one whole frame that's missing. I think it's very clear that when you talk and I see you talking, I see the ministers from G17 plus on TV, moving amongst the citizens of this country. It is clear what the basic problems of our economy are. One part is certainly a lack of funds to continue, to launch, to expand production any way you want or your basic actions, but the other is an indifference that has a state at its beginning. We can't get an answer to the question of how much the state owes to the domestic economy. We can't get an answer to that question. Is that 200m euros, 300m euros, how many dinars, when that debt came about, who was responsible, etc. We can give you one suggestion. Perhaps more important than all of this is to determine how this debt has arisen and how this debt will be resolved. We understand that the privatization of Telekom failed, perhaps one of the things for spending that money was to repay that internal debt. Maybe not. We know it's hard for you to accept it and see it as a real motive because you can't turn that cycle around before the election comes, but you could have started last year. We tell you more important than all these measures for the state and for the economy, above all for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, is that this ultimate balance of liquidity and non-payment is interrupted. It will be interrupted by changing the laws, which will change the regulations, so regulation, but above all by starting to restore its previous commitments. And when that circle comes, people will manage themselves. It's not us, none of us need a minister to bring us someone to hire us. It takes some part of the people in some old systems to rebuild. I also don't admit that it's bad moves. Sulaiman Ugljanin could have brought someone to Rask, to a factory in Rask, so he didn't bring it. He was a Turkish prime minister, saw and fled from there with his head regardless, went to Leskovac or I don't know where. So there's a lot of things going on, but it can't be so banal and so I say tastelessly abuse what exists as a healthy foundation for our society. Agriculture will not be resolved by farmers being able to borrow loans, simpler than before, and the economic situation in the country will not change by allowing small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises to take loans at cheaper interest rates, lower interest rates. If they're going to be able to take that loan in general, it's a big question, we can't talk about it today, we'll talk about it in two months when it's a deadline. What we're interested in today from the people who run this country's economy is what will be done on other plans? The plan is simple and clear – an accelerated path towards European integration. Our proposal is further supported by the country's desire to join NATO. There are political misunderstandings about this, but at least it can be talked about rather than secretly sneaking around NATO. So it must continue to change the country's economic climate by leaving its jurisdiction and letting people lead on their own. So, it has to go away some mistrust or trust by the state or that expectation by strikers and anyone else who is unhappy that the state solves all their problems, simply because someone in this country has to say it's not possible. Such a system existed in this country and it collapsed. We're not the only country in which that system collapsed. In half the world, it's proven impossible. And we have had this stimulation that the government has been doing for a long time, not now, in a pre-election campaign, in which the presidents are opening up factories, ministers and heads of parliament groups are pushing themselves in front of cameras, all of which strengthens one position or one kind of policy that is completely overcome in the world, which is that there are several people in this country, of which the entire Serbian economy depends. Unfortunately, I think it's true and I don't think it's an illusion and I certainly think it's very bad. As long as that system that makes it impossible for anyone, whether he's president or whatever, depends on him alone, when such a system ceases to exist, then we'll be Slovakia, not by competing with the company and leaving everything else aside and pretending it doesn't exist. In this country, economic policy cannot be led beyond the rest of the policy. Several times already, with the people who are running economic policy in this country today, we have come into conflict over it. I will remind you that the first great success, which is the write-off of the Paris debt, was not because we had good negotiators then, Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus, but because Slobodan Milosevic was delivered. I ask you to make sure that when you talk about the economy that you mean that there are many more difficult topics in this country and you don't have to lie to people and say that it has nothing to do with each other. We are telling you today that economic policy cannot be led separately from the process of European integration, and this process is the most important process, especially for economic stability in this country. And this government is much behind on European integration in its reform work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56754	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56755	Ladies and gentlemen, here I am again in the Assembly when it comes to economic laws. 15-20 days ago, when behind these benches while MPs of the Serbian economy were sitting in the parliament of Serbian businessmen, it was no wonder that the economy minister and vice-president of the government were in charge of economic development sitting on this side, listening and answering questions. But this is not the first time that representatives of opposition parties have maliciously tied functions and responsibilities carried out by the economy minister and vice president for economic development, wanting to politicise things rather than look at the essence. As an engineer, I'd like to be very precise in systematicizing some of the questions that have been asked. I will say that on the first question, the final outcomes or the out-of-flight, as bankers like to say about small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear in the light that the financial contract provides for elements that will have to contain mediation contracts concluded by the National Bank with commercial banks, with business banks and elements containing loan contracts concluded with end-users. To remind me, in his opening statement, Minister Ciric cited what the basic elements of the contract are, which is either the length or time of repayment of credit and interest. Interests for small and medium-sized enterprises moving around 5.5% annually with a seven-year maturity, with a two-year grace period. Medium-market capitalisation companies with average interest, of course, are slightly larger enterprises and potential borrowings of up to 12.5m euros, of about 6% interest on an annual basis with 12 years of return, of which four years of grace period. It is clear that the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as some major enterprises, which, by different rankings in EU countries and more developed countries, can be included in enterprises that are medium-sized. In our company, these companies go beyond all three criteria for the ranking of medium-sized enterprises so that they are bigger and are related to this Apeks 2B. Next thing you know, it's "Fiat." It's not clear to me that the LDP is the main problem that G 17 plus realized the project or the project is bad? It can't be bad for your question that we have delays all the time, I have to answer with counter-question – by which parameters do you claim there is a delay in the implementation of the project? Because, according to both the basic contract and the action plan, the factory is scheduled to be completed by the end of the year. Production in 2012 should be up to 200,000 cars and I really don't know why you're constantly claiming that this project is hanging somewhere under quotes, when it's simply not true? I invite you to go to Kragujevac and see what a new hall, a new factory, is making. I'd remind you of the pictures she looked like the moment the Fiat came in. I would also remind you of those workers who received half a billion euros through subsidies in 10 years and who today are in training and requalification and those 2,400 in 2012 will produce new cars. Let me remind you that 3,000 new cars were produced at one point by the Zastava car factory Kragujevac. In the end, we are talking about the fundamental problem of this country being inequitable. They talked about the basic problem being indifference. That's right. There is great indifference, and if you have followed the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the inequitability will be regulated in the future in the way the EU does. But if we are calling for what the EU is doing, I would like to remind you that the Directive on the fight against late payment of the EU has been in line with the chain, in its countries, between the creditors for 15 years and that only last year has the directive on combating delays, which provides for a maximum period of 30 days to settle debts and predict what penalties are and how they are charged in case the deadlines are broken. Fifteen years took the European Union to do that. No one gives Serbia the right to agree on something with the European Union directive for the next 15 years, and in two steps, the government foresees a alignment of the fight against delays by making a decision on 60 days in the next two years, and then we will go towards a reduction in time until we agree to what is the practice of the European Union. In the end, I really don't know what TV stations you're looking at and what newspapers you're reading, but I know very well that the President of the United States has also included and how he publicly appeared in solving the problem in Kraissler, that Angela Merkel and how she publicly involved in solving the problem in "Opel" and how he got involved in solving the problem in "Pejo". This is just about the attitude that those people are involved and people who directly participate in the realization of the project and know how it is solved, unlike those other people who, in a very beautiful dictionary, are rounding up something that I don't know what's in there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56756	Thank you. The right to a replica, authorised representative of the Liberal-Democratic Party parliamentary group, Mr Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56757	I'll attribute that emotion to your insecurity, I don't care, it's personal, we can even call it hate in a moment. I didn't talk, if you listened carefully, you'd realize that I said that Mr. Ciric told us what the interest, the grace period would be, but I wasn't talking about the basic parameters of some loan that is in the contract. I was talking about something else. I can only find a great disappointment that you, as vice president of the economy, didn't even understand what I was talking about. Leave it, I'll try to tell you this – set interest, grace period, length of payment, that's all right. We've said about it -- well done. Our problem is, how's somebody gonna get that loan? Do you understand that in Serbia, credit cannot be given to a company that needs money? It must exist for more than three or four years, its balances must be positive, it must not be credited, we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, it must not be in any way credit-related and must give all of this a coloter, a mortgage on the property of the company, a note of the owner. For all of that, a company like that, that can do that, no credit is necessary. Do you understand? That's funny. When we talked about it last time, the man who had the opposite opinion of you, and the minister of economy, Mr. Ciric, told us that some breakthrough would be made in that, that the conditions for obtaining credit would improve for small and medium-sized enterprises. Laugh now. It's been two months since then, nothing happened. It's not gonna happen. (President: Two minutes. I'll keep going from time to time. There's a lot, I have to call in another replica. (President: Let's let the gentleman... I have to answer, Mr. Novakovic, don't make another incident like last week. All right, I'm reporting to Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. And last time we told you-- you don't need the same party to run a session of a man, defend the law and attack us. It's not democracy in our assembly. The basic problem we told you, Mrs. Kalanovic, which I see you understand, is what, in order for you to have the right and the face to say that the G17 has realized the project, you have to invest your personal money. You didn't do it. No project has ever been implemented by G17. You start a company, you put yourself in charge of these favourable loans, so you get some results, then you say it's you. You play with the money of all of us and the people who sit here and the people who live in this country. That's why it's not a G17 project, as much as you want it to be. You know, in order to be a winner in that economic game, you have to take a chance, it's called the market, and when you risk someone else's money, it's not called the market, nor can you call yourself a winner. You may well manipulate the media, so it looks like you're some sort of, not you personally, your group, like some kind of invisible entrepreneur, but you're not, because you don't have any obligation, you don't care. When things get tough, you come out of the government and you say, "The prime minister is murky, irresponsible, nothing." These people you mentioned to be involved in solving these problems, these are the people who are responsible in their countries for this... (President: I thank Mr. Andric. )......................................................................................................... And none of these are the head of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56758	No breach of Article 103. The word is Mr. Radulović Milos.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased and for the first time I heard from Mrs Kalanovic today that the project related to the "Fiat" goes with normal dynamics and that everything that is expected to be completed will be completed. What fellow MPs have noticed here, it shows, is that members of a political party want to own this project, that it is their project. We had Mr. Ciric, Mrs. Kalanovic, who defends even though in the bill, the council said that the government's authorised representative would be Mr. Bozidar Djelic. The fact is that we all expect to see Mr. Markovic here in the afternoon, to have the full set of the political party G17 come out here and defend this law. This law is, I will talk about these two draft laws concerning the granting of a guarantee for Fiat cars, which the Republic of Serbia guarantees to the European Investment Bank, based on two contracts, one to 150m, and the other to 50m euros. These funds will be used for the development needs, as explained, of existing car factories in Kragujevac, for construction works on existing buildings, for their reconstruction and expansion, i.e. the arrangement of new technologies to increase production capacity from existing 30,000 vehicles to 200,000 vehicles after the end of the investment programme. We don't understand how you expect it at all, and Mr. Ciric, as the government's authorised representative, talked about it, to be able to make such a situation at the car factory in Serbia, to reach that level of 200,000 cars. I'll show you for what reason. First, one of the conditions for granting a loan by the European Investment Bank is that an obligation is established to obtain adequate funds, i.e. guarantees, security in favour of the Bank. Mrs Kalanovic -- who gave the government's right, government representatives, Mr. Nebojsa Ciric, to sign a guarantee agreement on 16 May this year to the European Investment Bank for the company "Fijat Cars of Serbia" and a ton of credit of 500,000 euros that "Fiat Cars of Serbia" are owed to the European Investment Bank. I would remind you that the agreement of 28 September 2008 set out precisely the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties, i.e. the Republic of Serbia and the group "The Car Fiat". Under the contract, the Fiat Group is owned by 67% and the Republic with 33% share capital with a share capital of 300m euros. That is how a joint company called "Fiat Cars of Serbia" is established. At that time, the Fiat Group Torino committed to investing in the Fiat Cars of Serbia, amounting to 700m euros, while the participation of the Republic of Serbia was about 250m and 200m in money, and the remaining 50m through tax advances. So far, although all deadlines have passed, Fiat has invested only 99.4m euros, although it has been committed 700m, i.e. for the first two years 200m euros. Mrs Kalanovic, I would remind you that the deadline for payment of the financial role of 200m euros in the company "Fiat Cars Serbia" was defined by 31 March 2009, but was proposed by the end of the year in early 2009, with a world-wide economic crisis. As the end of the year was approaching, and Fiat was unable to meet its obligation, it signed a new contract annex on December 20th, a payment of 200m euros, was cut in two, with the obligation to pay 100m euros by the end of the year, and the remaining 100m euros during 2010. The first part, the Fiat Group Torino, made a surplus payment and paid the last amount up to 99.4m on December 29th 2009. The Republic of Serbia has fulfilled its contractual obligation and has paid all the contractual obligations in the contract, by paying a founding stake of 495 000 euros on 3 June 2009, to pay 231m euros on 12 October, and finally, the handover of a non-financial capital of fixed assets worth 49m euros has been made. On the other hand, on the basis of the investment "Fiat Group" in Serbia's Car Factory, I repeat again, a payment was recorded by the "Fiat Group Torino" of only 94m and 900m euros. Then I ask you, how could you give guarantees for a 500m-euro loan? Serbia has fulfilled its obligations under the contract for its 33% stake in ownership. The Italians paid only 94m for their own ownership stake of 97% and they manage and collect revenues based on 99.4m euros paid, as the majority owner while Serbia has 33% of its income, although it is a majority shareholder for now in the company "Fiat Cars of Serbia". It's an unprecedented case, and I'd like you to tell me where anywhere in the world has it done that way so far? This also confirms what Mr Ciric said earlier, that the total investment is 960m euros and if we take what Serbia has paid so far, we automatically see that Serbia has no obligations to the company "Fiat Cars of Serbia". What will happen to Mrs Kalanovic, in case there are inconceivable bad and harmful consequences, which will disable the normal work of the group "Fiat Cars of Serbia", and who will pay the cost of 500m euros? I don't think it was appropriate for these reasons to answer your fellow MP, because this is exactly how I showed, it shows which and what mechanism was used to form the firm "Fiat Cars of Serbia". "Fijat cars of Serbia" was needed as a project to show you have a vision, that you are able to hire new people, to start production, and above all, to achieve political results. It was just the main topic on which an accent was given in the pre-election campaign, the ZES coalition, for parliamentary elections, for the presidential elections he won in Boris Tadic. They say, unfortunately, because it was your delusions that helped to deceive the citizens of Serbia and to come up with such election results. Mr. Mladjan Dinkic himself admitted about the 1,000-euro free share story, where you tricked four million people into getting in line, expecting them to get those actions, that it was essentially his move to help Boris Tadic win the election. Apparently, he regrets after all these changes in the government itself and his abandonment of the government, because I believe that he would not admit it to the public that it was a different situation. It's tragic that there are many promises. You promised 200,000 jobs, a better standard of living, higher wages, investments, and Bozidar Djelic spread some of his optimism during the crisis that Serbia is the only country that will not be affected by the crisis, that investors will rush into this country, and we know what the results are so far. We only have investments if the state subsidises new jobs, gives away land, gives out empty factory halls, and thus allows the cost of budget users, i.e. Serbian citizens, to start production in certain parts. What about subsidies? How many subsidies has the state ever given to component companies and how much are subsidies to Punto? The Fiat cars of Serbia, as some analysts say, are not the work of the century, as you have spoken, but that it is the biggest fraud. A fraud that should have allowed one political party to cross the electoral censorship and record the results in the elections. It's a normal trail of events. Let's go back to the memorandum of understanding, which was signed in a pre-election campaign, where everyone took a nice picture, drank champagne and literally told the citizens that Serbia would become a leader in the production of passenger cars in the region. You've produced 30,000 car "Punto" and you've sold it with subsidies. The flag firm had 4,700 workers at the time of the contract, and now with the help of subsidies there are thousands of workers. It is not only Fiat our problem with you, the problem is that during this government over 400,000 people are out of work, which is the highest inflation rate in Europe, which is the lowest wage, not only in the region, but in Europe as well, which we have the lowest standard, which citizens don't see and remain hopeless. You're trying right now with this loan with the European Investment Bank to double-cross citizens, to start producing a new Fiat car model. I believe that you will make it to the election, or to the election campaign to produce two, to walk them around Serbia, to show them and to deceive the people again. The consequences of your policy, your country's leadership, in terms of protecting territorial integrity, as in enabling a better standard of living, are disastrous for Serbian citizens. That is why it is best for all citizens of Serbia to be fully exposed in the next elections, and what I am saying is that I am trying to expose all the fraud and lies that you and Boris Tadic and the Government, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, have done to deceive them and believe that you will not succeed this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56760	The word has a minister, Mrs. Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56761	Let's start over. I do not think it is unknown to the public of Serbia that until a few years ago Kragujevac was, what they called themselves, "the valley of hunger". To remind those who do not know that the subsidies to the former Kragujevac flag group were a billion and 596 million in 2002, in 2003 a billion 721 million, in 2004, a billion 540, and in 2005 a billion and 400. Serbian citizens do not accept that from their budgets, from their money they give subsidies for labourlessness. Of course G17 plus didn't invest his money, but I accept your finding that it was one vision project for one part of Serbia's recovery. Let me remind you, what is it that you are talking about that has damaged the state of Serbia in the previous period? The estimated value of the Zastava factory at the time was 50m euros. It is true that the Fiat Group believes that this factory cannot produce cars where 200,000 will sell on a demanding European market and has done everything on the construction, it is almost brand new, and it is the figure you are talking about invested in the previous period. What did the Republic of Serbia invest in? I have to remind you, to the infrastructure. She invested in gassing the gas, in electricity, in building the highway. That is what Minister Ciric told you about. The investments of the Republic of Serbia during the previous period were in the infrastructure in the town of Kragujevac and in joining Kragujevac with Corridor 10. So, construction of the highway. What is it that needs to ward off your suspicions? I really don't know if I should start by respecting the procedure is the kind of thing that should inform MPs as well. It is known how an international contract is signed, who is empowered by the government and when the contract comes into force. It takes effect the moment it is voted in the National Assembly. It is the procedure we are facing today and the vote depends on whether this law will guarantee Serbia 200m euros under this programme. I find it quite unusual to discuss why Minister Ciric signed something, so now we in the Assembly confirm it. Simply, the procedure exists, from the beginning to the end defined, as agreed, signed the contract and ratified the contract. On the other hand, should we once again say that the Republic of Serbia is in two roles in the Fiat Cars of Serbia, that the role of the Republic of Serbia is double? The first is that the Republic of Serbia is one of not shareholders but co-owner of Serbia's Car Factory. With one-third, it is true, Serbia is the minority owner of this company. Fiat owns two-thirds, 67%. It is in this relationship that it is also investing in car factories, and profit is also shared in this relationship. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia is someone who provides the last environment for the operation of all companies, including the Fiat car of Serbia. We are not asking why the Republic of Serbia is co-financed by construction, say, industrial zone in Krusevec, and then we are not asking why so many million euros in the area goes out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's logical that he leaves because it's a business environment where there will be factories tomorrow and there are factories in which there are factories today. We are not asking why the Republic of Serbia today, or you are not asking why the Republic of Serbia today is making a power line in Bruce so that, for example, healthy food can work normally and competitively, but we are asking why the Republic of Serbia is investing in the highway to Kragujevac, in the energy plant in Kragujevac, in the gasification, in the internal traffic, in the entrances and exits? I don't think we'd go far with that kind of policy. It is true that today, given that there are those who are watching what happens at the National Bank sessions, they have probably also read on the website what the IMF said through its memorandum of negotiations on the extension of the arrangement with the Republic of Serbia. I will quote that it would not be mistranslated: "In 2012, there is an opportunity for growth to accelerate to 4.5% under the influence of foreign direct investment, especially car production in the Fiat." Signs of investment recovery have been recorded." Of course, I could keep reading, but I'm not gonna take up your time. Those who follow the implementation of the project know that the project is going well, know that the project will bring much good to both Kragujevac and Serbia as a whole and know that this will be a project that will increase gross social product growth significantly in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56762	Thank you. Right on line, Mr. Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56763	Mrs. Kalanovic, I don't understand why you're even planting things I didn't say. I didn't tell you about the state of the Kragujevac infrastructure, in Bruce, and I support everything that any government does in the interest of these citizens. But here I turn to what's most important, the contract. Serbia has respected the contract, paid the full amount, according to the car factory contract "Fiat Cars Serbia" and no longer needs to be in debt. "Fiat" has so far paid only 99.4m euros and therefore behaves as a majority owner, although Serbia is the one who paid most of the money. There's no need to be in charge anymore, or to give guarantees on any basis. Is he in the contract, too? Is it in the contract that the Fijata obligation is 700m euros and that Serbia gives a total of 250m euros? Serbia, I repeat, has respected its obligations, and "Fiat" is not. In doing so, the majority profit from Serbia's car factory takes the "Fiat", a group from Italy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56764	Mrs. Verica Kalanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56765	There are two delusions. The first is, Serbia is not in debt. Read the agenda. Serbia guarantees its share in its company. Serbia owns this company. Serbia does not guarantee the property of citizens, but the property of its company. On the other hand, Serbia has invested 250 million in the Fiat so far. Serbia has entered the project with 50m worth of the factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56766	Thank you. Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56767	First, it's not true that it's a delusion. "Fiat cars Serbia," Serbia's founding capital respected and gave 231m dinars plus a 49m-euro mobile equipment. I repeat again, on the basis of the investment by the Fiat Group in the Automotives Serbia factory, a 99.4m-euro Fiat has been recorded so far. We all know what guarantees are, Mrs. Kalanovic. I said we gave guarantees for the loan, but there's also the possibility of not fulfilling the obligations and then the guarantees are activated. Then what? As we started this project, there is a great danger that there are consequences from the project for the citizens of Serbia, and then Serbia will pay, on the burden of the citizens of Serbia and the debtors, the obligation on the basis of guarantees issued, with interest on these funds that are not small.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56768	You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 103 is advertised by MP Tomic Zeljko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56769	It is a violation of the dignity of all the MPs, and for me and all the citizens of Serbia, by the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this has been going on for months, and we have now had the opportunity to experience it. Mr Milos Radulovic, among other things, mentioned several false promises, fraud and deceptions that we had in the 2008 election campaign to hear from members of today's government. I'll remind you of another one. You just said that the Kragujevac was a hungry valley, if I understand correctly, until you came to power. What about today, Silicon Valley? What are those strikes on Kragujevac that are happening today? I'll remind you of another pre-election promise that is rarely mentioned. You all said that the whole Kragujevac and the whole of Šumadi would speak Italian when the Fiat came, so I expected both Natasha Jovanovic and Mr. Milenić and Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, he is not here today, along with the translator to talk to them about how everyone will speak Italian. To God, what is our education today, the weaker and the more Serbian we speak, the more we hear from the good part of the MPs of the ruling coalition. The fact is that the valley of famine is not fed thanks to your false promises, the fact is that in Kragujevac neither learns Italian nor more than before. You cheated on the people, cheated on them to win the election. Three years after that, we have results. Mr. Radulovic listed your tax data, and I'm just reminding you of what you said three years ago, and look how it's coming out...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56770	No breach of article 107. Mrs. Tabakovic is in the system. He wants to talk? I'll allow it, but there's no end to the attitudes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56771	Thank you for giving me the right. I will only read from the text of the guarantee Article 2 so that they do not further dispute, because they are not interpretations but literally from the text of the agreement itself - a guarantee in the form of a primary debtor, and not only in the form of a bailiff, unconditionally, irrevocably, on the first call, guarantees the full timely execution of all the cash obligations of the borrower to the bank, in accordance with the contract, and on the basis of the principal, interest, without any restrictions, fees, other costs and amounts that can be made to pay in accordance with any provision of the financial contract. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56772	Thank you, too. Based on article 87, I'm setting a one-hour break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56773	We continue work in the afternoon session. We are still in session when the right to speak is given to the presidents, i.e. authorised representatives or vice-presidents of the parliamentary groups. The word is held by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it might be useful to have been at the beginning of this debate, not because we think that you would tell us something different from the other representatives of the government, but rather it was very interesting to see the attitude of the congregation's majority towards the story of these new duties. Even the chairman had to intervene in order to in some way force the MPs to listen to this because more MPs of the congregation had become accustomed to these stories. What we're talking about today, we've known in the SRS in the last months or years to call it a political taste. I expect that you will not take the evil of both you and the chairman but also the representatives of the assembly majority sitting here, what we are listening to today and what it will take to adopt today or when it comes to voting day, is definitely a political insolence. It is only certain, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that you were not a moment earlier when some representatives of the assembly majority talked about what they are certain of what will happen to the end of this government. The only thing that we are sure will happen by the end of this government is that after this day and today's debate we will be obliged to have more than 300m euros directly, that Serbia will be indirectly burdened with 200m euros and that you, government gentlemen, will, in September of this month, issue securities of 500m euros indexed in the euro and another 200m dinar paper dinars of value or securities under crazy interest that only banks in Serbia rub their hands on. The only thing that's certain in this country is that. It is only certain that we will be about a billion euros longer by somewhere, as directly as possible, until the end of this government, if, for God's sake, this is all. But as far as we can hear and see there on the assembly site, there are also new announcements in the assembly procedure for some new guarantees and borrowings. Let's see what the God of health is waiting for us by the end of this year. Expecting Mrs Kalanovic, it was a very interesting finding from a little while ago regarding this borrowing of ours, or giving guarantees related to "Fiat". Imagine what Mrs Kalanovic said – that Serbia is not partly in debt with these 500m euros it takes from the European Investment Bank and that we only give a guarantee. I believe that you as an economist will agree with me that that is not true. Serbia is definitely in debt, in part these 500m euros, because it has a stake in the Fiat, but we'll get to the Fiat. I'd like to take this order, Mr. Djelic, as you of the Government have suggested. Somehow, government representatives avoided talking about duties that somehow do not concern their portfolios or feel that they were not concerned and perhaps they were better off not talking about it. The first agreement is on a loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Today the SRS asks – how can you be more entitled in government to this kind of political irresponsibility? We ask you, in 2008 did you convince the citizens that you would owe the state this way or were you offering something else? Today you can afford the right to political failures that will burden you with political responsibility in the time in which you live and in which you act. This shows that you do not understand the reality, nor the need, nor the possibility of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Djelic, you in the government are least concerned about the future of the Republic of Serbia and at least about the generations of this country. We, gentlemen of the Government, have already asked you once and asked you about the SRS, where do you get the right to impose rules on generations by which you lived economically and economically? You know why I'm saying this? Because of the fact that the loan, someone mentioned it today, was coming back in 2026. Half, a third, a quarter, a fifth, no matter, two-thirds of the people who vote for this in parliament today will be retired then. You will spend money away from this country. One day you'll look with a smile at the fact that someone's children are returning those loans. We ask you, what will you leave them for this money? What exactly is it going to get in the material equivalent generation of 2026? They won't be returning them from real resources. You'll make them take new loans and refinance what you leave them today. But tell us, what are you going to leave for them for this $100 million? Of that $100 million, $250,000 this country has to pay to get it. So that's how much it costs us just the fact that we're gonna get this, plus interest, but not at 99 point something million dollars, but at $100 million. So for 15 years, we're gonna pay interest, whatever it is, and then in 2026 we're gonna pay back. I ask you politically – aren't you ashamed? Do you have a shred of political conscience and responsibility for what you leave behind for generations and budgets of the Republic of Serbia which you, neither will you make nor will you share, nor will you spend? I'd like Mr. Djelic to tell me you, it says in the light of this law, what is an improvement in trust terms? This money will be spent. Does one of you gentlemen from the majority mean what it means to improve trustee conditions? It's a question for you specifically, as Deputy Prime Minister. This money will be spent on pensions and salaries in the public sector. Pensions on the one hand today are so large that they are conditioned by sick political compromises in the congregation's majority. Did I say something that doesn't match the truth? No, Mr. Djelic. What are the salaries in the public sector? Is there someone in Serbia today who does not receive a salary of 300 or 500 thousand dinars? You know well that there are your colleagues, which party, which is politically from that coalition alliance that is in power. Is this the public sector that's supposed to finance the 2026 generation? You say – strengthening social assistance to amortise the effects of the current crisis. You're amortizing the effects of the current crisis. You've passed a social aid law or whatever it's called, a few weeks or months ago, and you've foreseen yourself new obligations and responsibilities of about five billion dinars. Instead of providing real resources for this in a normal and healthy state, you are, of course, withdrawing a loan that will be burdened by generations in 2026. And only here a few days ago is your former colleague, Mr. Djelic, Minister Dinkic throwing 40 billion dinars for local self-government. You're in no condition to settle the state's social obligations of five billion, so you take and withdraw a 100 million-dollar loan. The question is how many of these $100 million will go to settle these obligations concerning the state's social policy sector. But it's easy with someone else. On someone else's ass, 25 doesn't hurt at all. I completely agree with you. Answer us where do you get the right to do this for generations to come and what is the material value that you will leave behind after this for the same generations? What's also interesting is the fact that this can't really change anything. Why, Mr. Djelic? 60% of public spending, i.e. current wage and pension consumption. That doesn't change the loans you're withdrawing. That political consciousness must change. When you add to that another 10% or 15% non-discretional expenditure, which you can't learn about, which is interest, which is costs, 70, 80% of the budget goes into nothing. Investment spending hangs in the air, then the gentlemen tell us -- well, it's rational to be in charge, to make roads, to make this, to make that. Where are the roads? Where's the power infrastructure and everything? Here they are. You've brought them together, your unreasonable public spending policy and one completely abstract category. Mrs. Kalanovic and Mr. Ciric spoke very affirmatively about a 250m-euro loan to be shared by small and medium-sized enterprises. Imagine, it's very interesting, as Mr. Ciric said, the most vital part of our economy. In the most vital part of our economy, we will give over the business banks 250m euros, and for one company and a factory that employs 1,000 and some workers, and the question is whether it will be 2,000, the state will give one part of the guarantee, and the other one will be in debt to 500m euros, which is "Fiyat". Imagine the state of absurdity you live in, and you agree to it, because it's a matter of the survival of the government, to that of one of your lists. When you look here at the situation with small and medium-sized enterprises today in Serbia, Mr. Djelic, the balance is devastating. Last year, 14,000 small and medium-sized enterprises were shut down. Today, more than 60 companies and 70,000 in the blockade are dominant in this sector. Do you know what this explanation says? That the Republic of Serbia has spent 315m dollars successfully in this regard, so now it's right because it spent 315 successfully, we assume it has the right to another 250m to spend. When you look back at small and medium-sized enterprises and their position today in Serbia, your hair gets on your head. Here, Mr. Djelic, 80 photocopies of the cut-off agreement on a small or medium-sized enterprise, as you will. It's a picture of reality in Serbia today. In that privatisation agency, the contract broke, and your government annulled that settlement of the contract, returned the company to the owner, and here's what he did, fired everything that bothers him, and the factory doesn't. I ask you -- where are the financial effects of the 315m euros in Serbia so far? Do you know what picture you left after you and that 315 million in Serbia? You left a picture of Serbia in which, Mr Djelic, reality seems to be the average age in sectors where Serbia could be successful, the average age of machines is between 25 and 35, precisely in these small and medium-sized enterprises. You left a picture of 50% of the jobs in some sectors in the city of Belgrade, in small and medium-sized enterprises 50% is in the gray economy, 50% is legal. It's a picture of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia today. So, Mr. Djelic, a picture of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia today and the fact that 85 or 80% of loans were withdrawn exclusively for liquidity. You know what they pay off those loans. They pay you and your government VAT, on invoices that on average charge from 120 to 150 days, small and medium-sized enterprises, and seven to ten percent of invoices never charge, I guess because you reformed an efficient judiciary and worked out effective mechanisms to implement these things. Imagine, a small and medium-sized company delivers 10% of their invoices at an annual level that never pays, and for every bank in that account pays VAT, so that you in the government can inherit that money. It is a picture and opportunity of small businesses in Serbia today. Have you ever built mechanisms to control the efficiency of economic measures relating to small and medium-sized enterprises? You're not, and you're not seriously interested in that either. You, Mr. Djelic, are in this for two strategies. Is that right? I assume you've read this. It is a strategy for developing competitive innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and for increasing exports of the Republic of Serbia. For one of these two strategies, your deadline is already running out in 2011. Go through that strategy, let's see what you've achieved in the context of small and medium-sized enterprises. How long has the implementation, as you like to say, of these strategies both passed in Serbia today? You know what it says in one of those two strategies? There is one section relating to exports, how to improve exports, so here they write- classifications of export markets according to size and growth, potential markets etc. Do you know which countries are at the beginning? The countries whose lobbyist you are here in Belgrade, the countries of Western Europe. They're at the beginning of these lists. The government text that you may not know, among other things, what you voted for, Angola, China, Kazakhstan, Belarus, India, Ukraine, Russia, Nigeria, Moldova, Iran, Libya, Indonesia, etc. According to your assessment and your studies, there is a perspective for Serbia, that these markets should be released. You have China, Russia, India, fast-growing Ireland, or Argentina, Romania, Nigeria, etc. And you come to this assembly to tell us fairy tales about European integrations and to assure us that it takes every day to owe us a few hundred million dollars, a hundred dollars, a hundred euros, to live better and to have our children pay it back. This really goes beyond political correctness and from political insolence to political insolence. In the end, we get to this famous Fiat. We just heard a genius sentence – Serbia is not in charge, we give a guarantee. A little Serbia did for "Fiat," so she has to do this for "Fiat". On the other hand, we didn't actually do anything for them, and "Fiat" did everything, and all of his obligations were settled. By 2008 or 2009, they had to pay their dues, and they didn't. Do you have a mechanism to make them pay for it? You do, but you won't. You can't let the government break up with you, so you don't fight with the coalition. They use and abuse your weaknesses and behave as they behave. First, the Budget Law does not provide for the state of Serbia to give 200m euros in guarantee. The Budget Law says it will give 135m euros a guarantee in joint investments with the Fiat. So, I'm asking you to tell me, is this law in accordance with the Budget Law or not? I've carefully searched everything and it says -- joint investments with "Fiita," a 135m-euro guarantee, not 200 as you're giving it today. Imagine the irony. This is where they tell us about ownership relations. We respected everything and got 33%, and they didn't respect the rest and they have 70 percent of the government. And we agreed to give the barbaric with the Italian State and their Export Insurance Agency the same amount of guarantee. They gave 200 million and Serbia big gave 200 million, and the Fiat Group gave a guarantee of only 100 million. Then Mrs Kalanovic tells us -- it is not true that Serbia is in debt, she gives a guarantee. How he doesn't owe when he's 30 and change percent I say participation or ownership in that company. This 500m-euro debt, first of all, would be nice to tell us in what joint investment agreement does it or where we can find the annex you are calling for to write that 500m-euro investments, and the FASA factories from Kragujevac will be realised through credit, so it will burden our country, because it is 30%, so it will burden the dividend, so it will burden the business, etc. So it's not true, because the Republic of Serbia does not owe this directly and indirectly. You gave the country, you gave the facilities, you subsidized the purchase of Fiat, and now you're going to use the social programme again on the cost of the state to send, and in Surdulica, the workers are going to whine and you're going to negotiate and negotiate with your coalition partners. The Serbian Radical Party has no intention of supporting this because it knows that this is pointless and that this is a waste of money, as well as all the money you have spent and which has been through your hands for the past 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56775	Before I give my word to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, on the basis of Articles 90, 2nd and 87th, I give the following notice. Today we will be working after 18.00 hours, and given that the session is scheduled for today at 17:00 hours, the opening time of the session announced by 17.00 hours, unless we finish the debate on the topic that is currently under way and voting and conclusion, will be postponed immediately after the vote and the conclusion of the session that is under way. When we open the session, that's what we'll do today. We're going to work on the agenda tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56776	Dear People's MPs, at a time when a Greek is faced with enormous temptations precisely because in the past few decades there have been excessive borrowings, because it has not been in line with what is the real possibilities of a country we see how insensitively quickly you can get into big problems and how difficult it is to get out of them. That is why today, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia represents these arrangements, it does so with full awareness that any borrowing of our country must be rightly held accountable to the needs of our society, that every dinar, every euro, every dollar of debt must provide a new future, that it must not be there to maintain the state of affairs but to improve the blood count of our economy, open up some new possibility. I can say that what is before you today fully corresponds to one of these demanding definitions of what any new obligations of the Republic of Serbia must serve. Namely, let's look at the first arrangement that was made with the Fiat. First, I'd like to clarify one technical matter. The guarantee is not an obligation in the sense that the borrower will not be the Republic of Serbia but rather a joint venture formed by the Republic of Serbia with the international company "Fiat". However, given that our country wants to run very responsible public finances, according to the laws you voted in October last year, when we calculate our external debt we count in the same way as the debt and guarantee. They are not the same thing and Serbia is one of very rare countries, not only in Europe but also in the world, where the guarantee will be counted in the same way under the Law on the Budgetary System, whose amendments you voted last October, precisely to have a very responsible management of our public debt. What's the guarantee? The guarantee was given to an undertaking whose assets are not sufficient to meet the requirements of business and international financial organisations, but which makes investments needed in the medium term to ensure that it is creditworthy when it monitors such a debt from its own business. "Fiat" and investments that go into the formation of the new company is one of those investments. This money is here to buy machines. This money is here to prepare the halls. This money is here to prepare logistics. This money is there to prepare the workforce and for the next year, the Joint Undertaking is starting to approach the target level of production of 250,000 vehicles, which, as an investment, will tomorrow as an exporter, represent something that has not yet been made in our country. In other words, the biggest greenfield investment, on the one hand. On the other hand, it will represent 1.6 billion euros in exports. According to some estimates, more than a billion euros flow for our country. Based on such figures, given the structure and the fact that Serbia is taking over 200 out of 500m euros here, we see that these guarantees are being taken to form an absolutely new economic value and something that has chain effects. I think that today the memorandum prepared by the IMF, which mentions that the macroeconomic situation in Serbia is improving primarily because of the new variety of investments that we have in our country, which are now going to the industry and which can generate exports. The biggest of them is this Kragujevac investment for Fiat. Therefore, if we look at this guarantee, that guarantee is there never to be exposed to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We also have our representatives in the joint venture, as well as a guarantee that there is a common interest in both the Fiat and the Italian Government to return the loan from the company's own resources that is being built through this arrangement. As for 150m euros, they are not for any small and medium-sized enterprises. It is true that this is the most vital part of our economy, but it is worth noticing that this tranche is 151 out of the 250m euros provided for domestic exporters. Exporting is what allows citizens of Germany to live well today. Exports provided better years before there was a problem on the financial market, not in services, especially in the domain of technology, for the citizens of Ireland to become one of the richest countries in the EU. Exports are actually for the land of gauges and with a geographical position that we occupy the right strategy for our country, only it's not enough to say "we need to export more". Serbia since last year, although we have made significant progress, still does not export enough. Yes, last year, if we look at what was the coverage of imports from our exports, we have come to one of the best coverage in Serbia's history, not just in the last 10 years, 20 years, but since World War II because it is traditionally the pain and difficulty of our economy, what has led us to macroeconomic crises and the devaluation of the dinars. If one nation imports much more than it exports, in the end, those dams that exist, which are loans, these are investments, they are donations, they don't last long, and at the end of the day they're paying off foreign reserves, and at the end of the day you can see the rate of domestic currency. Because of that, for all of them, and I am convinced that this is the vast majority of those present in this Assembly, who want decades to come to be many more stable economies of Serbia, regardless of who will be in power, they will welcome this arrangement because it is actually designed, at the request of the exporters themselves, to continue the trend we have made since last year and the past two years, which is an increase of 36% of our exports, to continue this trend. This arrangement with the EIB was made by asking our domestic exporters what it is that you need to succeed even more, not some companies that have yet to be proven in other people's markets, but some 10, some 20, some several hundred million euros are being placed in the region and in Europe and their response was that at this moment of crisis. Those who are able to increase exports have one key problem, which is that no business bank currently in Serbia can because of the correct regulation for the average of our economy to give them new support because what they have been able to pawn, which is why they are unable to increase the range of production and thus leave behind, and thus our nation, a series of opportunities for untappedness. Who are we thinking of? We're thinking of a rolling stock in Sevojn. We're talking about our conditioning industry. We're thinking about our metal industry, we're thinking about those industries that we're sorry, we're thinking about the metal industry. We're talking about the rubber industry in Pirot. Now, in this, we're not thinking about "Mischel," because he can't predicate on these assets, but on what the Pirocans have built over the past few years, and these are factories in the domain of technical tyres, and in the area of shoes. The funds they expect from this arrangement are there to secure the construction of the third recycling plant. This would combine two goods, on the one hand recycling, if our country did not rose through untapped tyres, and on the other hand the reduction in tire imports and, thus, the possibility of producing and exporting more. Our country must build a network of exporters. Part of those exporters will be like the Fiat, branches of large international companies. In some sectors, it's the only way out. Today, in order to create a competitive car model in the world, it must be invested between three and five billion dollars – to make design, to make marketing, to break through the distribution. Those who have not secured positions so far will have a very difficult time doing so alone. Maybe it's a possible strategy for giants like Brazil, like China or India, that's for sure and we felt it on our own skin with the flag, can't be the case with the Republic of Serbia. This does not mean that Serbia cannot be a player in the automotive industry. Through this arrangement, we enter into one of the leading car manufacturers. This is how an ecosystem of auto-components is formed. There are more than a hundred in our country and one such investment, be assured, is the strongest asset for Serbia, that after the first, first and second, and the third factory. So it started in Slovakia 10 years ago, and they were able to attract even three producers. Today, the country, which is very similar to us, has exports that represent, not as in Serbia 30% of GDP, but 110% of GDP. That's what they managed to do and there's no reason for Serbia to fail. Exporters, it's not just that part of major international companies, it's everywhere, from agriculture, the conditor industry, traditional industries, technology, everything our domestic exporters can do. These 150m euros now, another 100m euros next year is exactly what they need. If you have read in detail, you will see that Apex Four is different from Apex Three, not only because it is decidently facing exporters, but also because it predicts the situation I just described. Namely, our best firms that regularly repay their loans, whose banks recognize potential, but which because all available collateral that could have been given was given, can't go any further. This State intervention will allow these loans to be granted. This will allow our best companies, because it is essentially 100 of the strongest domestic Serbian exporters, to get that support that will allow them to continue to win regional and European markets. Finally, as for the arazman with the World Bank – is it good that we have a budget deficit? I'd be luckiest if we didn't have one. But at this moment of crisis, Serbia has one of the lowest rates of budget deficits in Europe. That's 4% this year. According to the first draft budget for next year, it will be even less, no more than 3.6% of GDP. The same law that I mentioned earlier foresees, not only that the guarantee and debt are accounted for in the same way, but that, respected MPs, you have predicted that Serbia will gradually reduce its budget deficits by 1% in 2015. The budget deficit is here. If I'm not mistaken, only three countries in Europe have no budget deficit today. It's about Luxembourg and Estonia, very specific small economies, and it's about Norway with its oil sites. One France has a deficit of 9% this year, one UK is about 10% this year. Greece, which we are talking about for the third year in a row, has a deficit that has now succeeded through this great effort to reduce from 12% to 9%, and Serbia is to 4%. Before this crisis, five governments, none of them proposed before the crisis a budget deficit that has crossed 3.5% of GDP and that's good. If there's already this deficit, moderated, then I guess the smartest thing is to try to find the most stable, longest and cheapest sources to cover it, on the one hand. If we can make it through one of these arrangements, give a boost and some reforms, we'll be at an extra win. This is precise, this is an arrangement with the World Bank. These $100m come with conditions that Serbia alone with conditions on its own domestic market could not think at all. It is a 20-year period – 15 years and five years starts and the rate at which the library is at six months and which currently represents 0.40%, plus one margin of 1.19%, i.e. 1.6% of the interest on the annual level and the length of the 20-year loan. Let's compare what we're able to do on the domestic market, and we'll see that this arrangement represents a massive savings to finance such a defined deficit. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you're absolutely right when you say that the state, whatever the situation, has to monitor that the public debt doesn't get out of hand. It's easy to lose control in these domains, and it's very hard to get back. We have several examples in Europe at this point. Our citizens can also see it through TV what it looks like when a country in continuity lives above its own possibilities, when salaries and pensions are paid above what the nation itself creates. In international financial relations it is just the same as in international relations – there is no love, there are only interests. Those nations that allow themselves to try to live above their opportunities, real opportunities and quality of work and exports, and how they pay a high price in perspective. These arrangements we have today are absolutely in line with a very thoughtful public finance policy, an arrangement with the "Fiyat" will form the largest exporter in our nation's history in two years. Our strategy, and that must be the strategy of all the governments that are coming, is that on the basis of this investment we continue to strengthen our own positions in the automotive industry. If you look at investment in the world, you'll see, and perhaps at the surprise of many, that if we look at investments that can give a large amount of exports, there are not many sectors. There are only three sectors that, if you attract investors, you can get exports. It's about the automotive industry, the electronics industry and information technologies, and, in part, chemistry. Therefore, the automotive industry must be used as a chance. This is an arrangement and these 200m euros are a guarantee are an absolutely correct step in that direction. As for our domestic exporters, this 150m-euro arrangement was fully designed to answer their demands and their questions, to allow them to expand the range, to create a missing line, to increase the hall and to win, to continue to win. It's about the best part of our economy. Finally, the moderate deficit still has to be financed. If we can fund it for 20 years with a 1.7% interest, and we manage to implement structural reforms, I think we're winning. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56777	Right on line, two minutes, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56778	All this is nice of you to say, Mr. Djelic, I just don't know if you meant our country? It's nice to promote the top of the automotive industry, but I'll remind you that today when you go to Maxi's discount, we're eating beans from Azerbaijan, we're eating tomatoes from Turkey, and we're eating apples from Macedonia. While you are at the top of the automotive industry, the environment and Turkish food, and that, imagine, is a agricultural and agrarian Serbia which, above all, is in yours and who knows whose strategies they have seen their exit chance in all of this. I asked you nicely, don't teach me what guarantees are – the budget says that the guarantee will amount to 135 million, not 200 million, as much as you give to the Fiat. That's one thing. The second thing, it's very nice to play with statistics, with imports and exports, but get the strength to tell why the balance and the growth of exports, or the fall of the external trade deficit this year, or the previous year, was the same as it was, because you exported what 30% to 40% on the markets increased their prices. Because you have experienced the historical maximum in wheat exports, not because you have achieved the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and have given them the opportunity to export. What fell most drastically in import? Machines and equipment. What qualify the state to be technologically ready, competitive and to go to the world market. In the previous year, it was the biggest and most drastic decline in imports to Serbia. I asked you nicely – where are the effects of 315m euros spent precisely for the purposes of which you are talking? Where are the effects of all this? The liquidity has been financed, the Republic of Serbia's budget has been financed through VAT and on average 39 other monthly interventions in the country. You will now assure us that these loans are good. I know very well what debt is, what guarantee is, and what debt is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56779	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups reporting for a word to exercise their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search for a written word application with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, DSS, Forward Serbia and the SRS. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is held by the MPs, and in order and reports for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Bojan Djuric, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56780	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yet at first I must protest this kind of behavior. Mr Djelic has been the government's third representative since the start of this debate this morning. We don't have a problem with ministers being on guard every hour. I have a problem with their appearances or arguments or arguments being partly contradictory or contradictory. I mean Mrs. Kalanovic, first of all. Mr. Ciric and now Mr. Djelic were quite consistent. At the very beginning, I have to answer or ask some more questions regarding what Mrs Kalanovic was saying at the end of the afternoon session, addressing among other LDP MPs, claiming there were no false promises in relation to value, intensity, dynamics, investment in the "Fiyat" and that everything we said on this topic was just a fiction. We, of course, have not spoken for a moment about the fact that the "Fiat" has deceived the Republic of Serbia or domestic citizens. First of all, we talked about there being a whole series of false promises, unreal promises, and the need to fascinate the local public, and that constantly the numbers that are good, encouraging, but probably not particularly large from the aspect of some pre-election campaign, are further promising. Speaking of which, I would just have to remind myself of three statements made by Minister Dinkic in September 2008. - January 2009 and December 2010. This afternoon's debate obviously did not fall into part of the G17 Plus party, as I see when there are no ministers or their vice-president of the Assembly to run the session, neither are they in the O.R., with all due respect to Mr Vukovic and Mr Milenic. So, in September 2008, when signing a contract with the Fiat, Mr Dinkic says the following -- a 950m-euro contract with the Italian Fiat is the biggest investment in Serbia so far. Mr Djelic says today that it will only become 2012, 2013, which will provide 4,750 jobs and one billion euros of exports by 2011. Today, "Fiat Cars of Serbia" have 1,100 employees, not 4,750 employees, as then promised by Minister Dinkic and we are far from that figure of one billion euros in exports, as we are further from this figure that Mr Djelic mentioned today when he said that exports would be one billion and 600m euros. On 30 January 2009, then Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic still postpones the start of production of the new model for the end of 2010 and gives the strongest possible guarantees in "Politica" and RTS. Mrs Kalanovic doubted the relevance of the report and the media we are referring to. I deliberately chose two practically state houses RTS and "Politics" as reference sources. In 2010, there was nothing from the new model. Mr Dinkic says the new Fiat is coming from Serbia safely by the end of 2011. In the morning part of the session, Mr Ćirić tied the moment to 2012 and to the end of next year. Mr Dinkic was very precise in the 2008 projections, even dealing with the class of cars, so he says – the new car will be 3.8 meters long, will have two variants of 1200 and 1400 cubic meters. At that time, the current number was 300,000 cars a year, Mr. Ciric says this morning 200,000, and Mr. Djelic seems a little bit, in the afternoon part of the session it had to increase to 250,000. I'm not going to quote Mr Dinkic's statement, which went so far as to see the new model from the Fiat as a real woman's car. It was probably such a phase of the election campaign, and so was the electoral body. So much for promises and credibility. That is why, Mr. Djelic, today I have a problem fully believing what your projections are at this point, with all the best intentions and with the general position of the LDP that is not against the investment of the Fiat. From the very beginning, we were in principle on all those occasions when the congregation had the opportunity to support this type of investment. We have always had problems and regrets, as we do today, on the behaviour of domestic politicians, especially individual parties in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to continue around this part of the guarantees that are related to the "Fiat". Slovakia is a good example, but I think it is being used excessively in the local public while ignoring a series of very important differences that existed, which existed between Serbia and Slovakia, investments for investment, political climates, etc. First, Slovakia was not always a successful country in transition, until the mid-90s it was much like Serbia, and afterwards, after political and democratic changes, decided to move much faster into the process of European integration. She made a political decision to join NATO, which Serbia has been avoiding for 10 or 15 years. She quickly compensated for the backlog of European integration, which is why today she does not have several times more income than the export of the automotive industry, but has an income of 20 billion euros, which is 12 or 13 times the revenue of a billion and 600m euros that Mr Djelic and other members of the government are designing as the most optimistic scenario for "Fiat". The other problem that exists with investment in the automotive industry is that the car market, especially in Europe, is not unlimited. There are some upper limits by the number of vehicles or by that period of renewal of the rolling stock that we have to take care of. Three large factories came to Slovakia, several in neighbouring Czech Republic, a large part of the automotive industry in Hungary. I'm not sure there's much space in this part of Europe for the further development of the automotive industry outside of these gauges that you've been talking about. I believe that at that level up to that production of 200 or 250,000 cars it is possible to develop production, provided that there is a market for such products. Unlike old socialist companies, like the Red Flag, then later the flag was once, I'm pretty sure the Fiat will not produce more than that number of cars that can be placed on the market that is available to it. What the state needs to do is open these markets, run a much more active regional policy because they are primarily markets for real products or that will soon make "Fiat Cars Serbia" in Kragujevac under this or that name. Mr. Ciric spoke a lot about security funds for these loans and guarantees or collaterals, as modernly said today. We have no objections to what security funds are in the case of the Fiat, and we have no doubt that this loan will be paid, i.e. no guarantees will be activated. There is another problem in Serbia, which is that a whole series of guarantees that are continuously given to public companies are normally activated and that the Republic of Serbia, or its budget, can never be charged through the regression of that amount of money they have paid as guarantees for loans from public enterprises or state-owned enterprises. I think what's been going on these past few days with Galenika may be the best example of such irresponsible behavior. It is not true that some guarantees have previously been activated only for Serbia and some other companies, they have also been activated for the EPS significantly in the amount of the Serbian Railways to remind you. Serbia's railways are a company where you give eight thousand euros each year to a worker who works there, 21,000 employees in the Serbian Railways are almost 20 times more people than they do today at this production level in Fiat cars in Kragujevac. One more thing, and I'll leave time and colleagues to stay. There have been many objections to the treatment of Sandzaks, all in this atmosphere that it is not enough for one to have two ministers in the government, but that at each session we must listen to these complaints, those who have been in power for 10 or 11 years that there has not been enough funds or that there are no roads. A few days ago, I was in Tutin, and I was really shocked by the fact that on certain parts of the road in that sense, in which it has been so defined in modern Europe for at least the past 150 or 200 years, but it is a question for Mr. Omeragic and should have thought about it when he was all-heartedly supporting Velimir Ilic's presidential bid in Serbia, then the minister of capital investment and the biggest builder before this latest phase in which Milutin Mrkonjic took over the bat.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56781	Nine minutes and ten seconds used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Milan Lapcevic, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56782	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today a natural ratification of the treaty, i.e. by confirming the guarantee that the Republic of Serbia is giving to take credit for Fiat's car factory in Kragujevac. By nature, she received the most attention from the MPs, so my discussion will mainly refer to this part of the guarantee that we are confirming today in the Republic Assembly. Let's go back a little bit, remind the citizens of the history of reviving a car factory in Kragujevac. If you remember in 2006 the government then bought a license for the production of Fiat's cars and, above all, Fiat Punta at the Zastava factory in Kragujevac and then paid 13m euros for the license with accompanying machines and equipment. In mid-2006, Zastava produced on the Fiyat's license paid so-called. The 10 flag that was the exact same replica of Fiat Puntu. And these cars contained about 30% of the parts produced by domestic suppliers or domestic associates, domestic companies that were in a contractual relationship with the flag. On this basis, a large number of small businesses and people living in both Kragujevac and the surrounding area were employed and therefore made certain revenues based on the production of the car. In 2008, two topics dominated the election campaign at the time, one signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The second topic was a thousand euros of free action, because I forgot to say it was another topic. The third topic was to revive the Serbian economy through a strategic contract that would raise Serbia to its feet, a strategic agreement with Fiat and fantastic investments in the new Fiat factory in Kragujevac, which will produce, when 200 thousand, when 300,000, when 250 thousand, depends on the need and the situation, when one of the state officials wants to use it. Let me remind you that, for example, on 30 April 2008, a memorandum of co-operation was signed between the president of the Fiat Group of Serdji Makione with then Minister Dinkic and the president of the state of Tadic, where it was said that Fiat is interested in producing in Kragujevac rather than making new models of its cars under the obligation to raise production to about 90,000 vehicles for the first year and for two years to about 150 thousand vehicles per year. The first year and two years later are long behind us, and here is the text of December 9th last year, which says that on December 8th, so the day before that, Fiat cars Serbia threw out its 15th thousandth car. It was the main news in all the media in Serbia that the Fiat car factory Serbia had thrown out the 15th thousandth car in 11.5 months. So, no talk about 90, or talk about 150, 200, 250 or I don't know how many thousands of cars, and even less talk about how much of these cars will be exported and that Serbia will therefore reduce its external trade deficit, that the state of Serbia will earn from it, that workers will be employed, etc. The signing of the agreement also said that the arrival of Fiat would increase the number of workers in Kragujevac and here by simple analysis, then the flag was hired by 4,700 workers, this morning in the afternoon's debate we heard the former economy minister, Deputy Prime Minister Dinkic, presenting this thing as his own personal project, that in the car factory Fiat cars Serbia is now working thousands of people. Fifteen thousand cars are produced, thousands of people do what they do for three thousand and 700 less than they did four years ago. Those 15,000 cars are sold exclusively in the Republic of Serbia, with subsidies from the Serbian state. Today, we ratify, i.e. we guarantee that Fiat has raised a 500m-euro loan and the signing of a contract and a memorandum of co-operation later in September 2008, not a single word has said that the investments of the Fiat that were supposed to be 700m euros will be carried out through credit duties, for which guarantees will be given by the state of Serbia, but that this will be the money completed and that, on that basis, the state of Serbia has committed to making its investments of about three hundredm euros in cash. Of course, it was obviously used at the time as one of the three pre-election big lies, to win the election, but since the new elections are nearer, it is no wonder that now the story of Fiatuo's new production of 250 thousand, 300, cannot grasp what car numbers are to be produced in Kragujevac and which will be exported, no longer on the Russian market as it was a promise three years ago, since Russian officials clearly said they have no intention of non-tariff cars that Italians make in Serbia without any Serbian part. Now these cars will no longer be exported to Russia, but will be exported to the EU market. And once again, be patient next year, a new model will be thrown out and since 2013, this projected production of 200,000 cars, 300,000 cars that will bring a large foreign inflow to the country, employ new people and raise the industry in Serbia. Today, Fiat cars Serbia except for cranes that are a minor part of the car have not one supplier from Serbia, all imports from Italy and concluded, the number of workers is far less than they were in 2007, the number of cars produced by 15 times smaller than promised, and we have new promises only to pass these more elections, only now to give us confidence as of 2013, there will be those 200 thousand new cars and new models. No wonder. The exact same story, the exact same matrix, and Tadic promised us five, six months ago that we should be patient and that since 2013 when the republican and presidential elections that he needs to get back support, we will be better off living. We've had enough of your empty promises, we've had enough of your lies and paralyzing. As Dinkic once had the strength to say that he knowingly lied for 1,000 euros of free action, he will probably turn out when the time comes to say that – that I was knowingly lying about "Fiat" too, but we needed to win the election. The citizens of Serbia follow well what they say, and what they do, what promises they make, and don't believe any more in false promises that they have the sole purpose of having one party transfer the censorship and reintroduce us into one grey, which means the complete destruction of Serbia, the loss of jobs, the imperceptibility, the senseless borrowing of the country for everything and everything I don't know who will bring back tomorrow except our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56783	Nine minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56784	In the state of Serbia, not only is the uncertain future with this ease of insufferable borrowing, but it is simply a uncertain past because when you keep in mind the fact that we have a public debt debt of 12.7 billion euros behind us, so that in fact the effects cannot be seen, then the question really arises how is it possible that in the state of Serbia is uncertain and the past? Perhaps for that very reason, the fear of all of us arises, and what about the new more than five hundred million direct or indirect debt that we approve today, will it give the desired results on behalf of these 100 million minus $250,000 to be paid for the access fee, and which, according to your statement, will be for the sustainability of the public sector of finance. So, whether what is planned to be invested in small and medium-sized enterprises will give effect and whether what is currently the guarantee of the primary debtor for the "Fiat" state is really just going to remain a guarantee or will turn it into a commitment of the state of Serbia. That fear of ours isn't even a little unfounded. We already know by heart the loan clauses for small and medium-sized enterprises obtained from the European Investment Bank, where the National Bank is an agent, and where commercial business banks are intermediaries. That's what they call this agreement. Do you think it was your turn to deliver a document to us with one of these contracts, so commend us, through which banks, how many small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from loans and what the dynamics of their return are and what are the effects? What is the dedicated control of the use of these loans? Was there an abuse? It's a lot like that. We are such a report with this agreement, which is otherwise needed, desirable and therefore we get these funds, and for the development of export-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises up to three thousand employees, incomplete, scarce and not even able to vote for it, because I have the suspicion that from a Slovak model of start-up – a loan, for which the Development Fund was only a commissioner, will appear tomorrow some misunderstanding, gently said, in terms of misuse of funds, where other people's ID cards and newly-opened enterprises have been misusing funds. So, too many abuses of funds that have no control over neither the lender nor the authorities responsible for it, the competent institutions, so this home has no control and therefore cannot say so easily, yes, okay, these funds are necessary and necessary. Do you, Mr. Djelic, think that when you go to the bank and ask for a loan, you are looking for one, as it writes here a draft financial contract for Fiat, it should guarantee that if you have a business that has a good business plan, which has an export-oriented company that is going to sell 200,000 cars, so someone believes in you and shows papers and documentation, a sound name, Serbia has established an enterprise, it is known which market it will be placed on, customers know about, pre-contracted. Who'd ask for a guarantee? I don't want those who don't know what the guarantee is, by definition, to be mistaken that the guarantee is a paper that allows you to get the missing funds to invest. No, it's not true. When you're not alone enough a solid debtor or when the bank doesn't trust you directly, it's looking for a waltz. He's looking for a note, mortgage security, he's looking for a moving stock, he's looking for a jury. That's what our people understand. When you have a state of Serbia that has shown that it has one spoiled petal. Normally, the state of Serbia will be required to be the primary debtor, who, without any right to question or object, will have to settle obligations, not only on the basic debt of the draft financial contract. What's the draft? As long as there's no guarantee confirmed in this House, there's no financial contract. As you come here to this House to ratify this guarantee agreement, be so correct and fair, and show us how much investment it's been, which is all the costs that Serbian citizens have cost over the budget through work experience, overqualification, evaluations, consulting houses, all of this takes too long and before Fiat itself, and also since Fiat's arrival. If we didn't know how to add and subtract how much it costs, and what effects it's going to give, you'd have to tell us here and explain it. You should know the Budget System Act well. The law says that when one of the ministries gives you a law on the agreement or any act, the approval with which you will come to this home, it should have an analysis of the financial effects. As MPs, we've asked for it to be delivered to us. Never mind, that amendment was rejected. Since it's such a good investment, and since someone thinks this is definitely not going to fall on the burden of the state, let's just say thank you for that, come on, give us some evaluation for the plan no one has ever answered. Why do I doubt it? Because Fiat has already been taught, he also heard that the state of Serbia has seen to its debtors, those companies that are the founder, public enterprises, at peace with the guarantee and before they reach or fall on the burden of the republic's budget. In the morning part, I said it, and I don't want to say it again. For your sake alone, 143m euros, the state of Serbia for the Ways and the Railways of Serbia has reconciled guarantees, i.e. two wars per guarantee for both companies in total, I say, of 143 million. You know what they say, no, it didn't fall on the burden of the Serbian state, but it took advantage of the right to settle its commitments, or it was forced to do so, because the first debtor couldn't do it, we don't even have that problem here. It says here that the primary debtor is the state of Serbia. Wait, why would someone settle their obligation at a difficult time, when the sale of cars is still uncertain, because the payment capacity and the demand for cars are controversial, still problematic. If he already has a state that guarantees he'll do it with all the accompanying expenses. It's not baseless or fear or doubt. Would you believe me if I told you that the government in which you were, from the first to the last, used 30m euros in incentives for employment through the project – Support for measures of human resources, Leposa Serbia, UNDP, Promotion of Employment – World Bank 2 million 750 000 euros, building the institutional capacity of the labour market in Serbia million and 783 000 euros, an EU programme called the "Adopted Employment Support Programme" of seven million and 200 000 euros, all in a total of 30m euros. Do you know what it's spent on? Eight job-seeking clubs opened, eight economic development studies were built, printed manuals for work, established surplus databases, taught people to write business plans and to look for work. Part of it is a donation, but part of it is loans under cheaper conditions, but where are the effects? In this country, close to a million employees in real production, not to the state sector in terms of administration, millions of employees should earn what is called social upgrades, for all public services, for pensioners, and barely come to an end. That's why we have deficits, so we're funding him part of one of these loans. Do you think, when this is spent in vain and no one answers, in the sense of reporting the effects of these accounts, that we have no right to doubt? I have the right to claim that the state is not regressing from those whose guarantees have been paid out of the budget account, because the DRI report for 2008. Because there is no regressive right to take from that debtor the money he was supposed to settle. As long as someone doesn't file a report on where this money is invested, who took the money from the projects, what are the effects, what would that someone care about spending the money? Where you transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises, you didn't come to boast about what results you had achieved. What are we worried about? The million employees to earn for this and this state cannot make 140m euros this year, how much interest should be paid alone. In order to pay domestic interest this year, the budget must allocate 230m euros. After one reply from the government, four billion euros in loans are due this year. That's half the budget. I'm really impressed, in a negative sense, by your ease of borrowing and by the feeling that you can come to this home without any assessment of what's already been taken, where it's spent and how this is going to flow. You think it's enough to say – grace period is 15 years, credit is at 20 years, 1.7% is interest. Did anyone believe Euribor would go like this and that such movements would be on the financial market at the time of 2002-2003, when you were in charge? A good and responsible member of the government is considering borrowing and respecting the law by ordering the Public Debt Administration to come out with an analysis. What did you tell us? Yes, she says, the Public Debt Administration is formed and she has a comprehensive database, we've told whoever's giving us the money. Wait, why don't you tell us? Why did you come here to ratify this agreement or think that the Assembly is only part of the ruling majority that trusts you on your word? The public debt administration did not show up with any single analysis. The only reliable data MPs can use, it's no longer even the Department of Statistics, is now the Fiscal Council. This fiscal council warns you, us and all together that public debt is absolutely growing due to government borrowing in dinars and foreign exchanges on the domestic market. According to the finance ministry, the public debt was 12.7 billion euros at the end of March 2011. Don't fool the people and say, we're a low-indebted country, that's about 40% of the gross social product. Come on, admit we're actually 78.9% of GDP in charge because it's a total external debt. What is the company's duty, what is the responsibility of the private sector, when they happen to continue this debt node that we are in, there is no more Vienna Agreement and credit exposure, there will be no more, if there is one. At some point, when all these people get in trouble for their bosses not to pay their salaries because they're too in charge, it's going to be a problem for all of us. They're going out and they're going out on the street. I don't invite them. But if the situation could have happened that they too, credits for which there wasn't enough documentation, that the slow, old-age foreign savings that are available today, may resent me, too, can be called gambling, when the government was promising interest for which it wasn't guaranteed, but someone thought it could get a interest of 20 per cent and more, so someone turned it into a debt of state, why wouldn't this one day become a debt of state, this 78 per cent of GDP, 23 billion euros is that? Now I don't want to go into those details – why someone wanted to be nice, so he only gave all that old foreign savings to the National Savings Bank and how the property of the Social Accounting Service became the property of what was falsely called the National Savings Bank. I hope that this, called the perfect robbery, will disintegrate today under pressure, those who want to talk to the serious state, when that serious state solves its problems of abuse of institutions and support of the state in this kind of abuse. In that sense, when the debts of private companies turn into a government obligation, where are we going to settle it? In these relations and warnings of the fiscal council, I wonder those who say today – the IMF has signs of recovery. Why don't you remember the IMF when it says – a new deficit opens up and fiscal unsustainability is created by adopting the Law on the financing of local self-government because it's clear that once you add most of the cake, you take it away from someone. It can't be so twice understood that the opinion of the same expert team that advises you not to do what is not sustainable, that some moves are politically popular, but that someone really has to pay the price. Always, eventually and at the beginning, we will all pay together, as citizens of Serbia. Let's see that this will be just as much as it has to be, in terms of sustainability of public finances, but not so that you don't think for a moment about whether there should be any savings in the government, whether the Law on public procurement should be innovated and prevented the waste of a huge amount of funds. No, you're coming out here with the information that we've never had this uniform, or covered imports of exports. Mr. Djelic, I am convinced that you know that this coverage is the result of reduced economic activity and reduced imports, not because we have larger exports. As you've been putting citizens to high foreign exchange reserves all the time, not saying that this structure is actually very fragile and that it's the foreign foreign exchange reserves that they've borrowed from their queens, so you've created an illusion of the ease of borrowing, so it's just a dilemma whether Swiss people, whether they're euro. Today you are faced with the problems of reduced foreign exchange reserves and reduced national bank revenues, as well as the problems of trying to reduce what is called a public debt problem by playing with the value of dinars. I will warn you of what the fiscal council says about GDP, and about the public debt ratio towards it. Given that Serbia's GDP is mostly formed in dinars, and that most of the public debt is denominated in foreign currencies, or is related to their movement towards the dinar, the movement of public debt to GDP depends heavily on the oscillation of the dinar course. When the rate of dinars falls, the public debt ratio towards GDP increases, and the relationship decreases when it grows. This anesthesia policy of borrowing and creating an illusion that we are not yet in a break-in where it's completely dark, will not take us far. Even if it brings you another election victory, which I highly doubt, there is still one tomorrow in which we should continue to function as a state, so that we can be in debt, but for infrastructure projects, and not to talk about them since 2008, today in 2011, it remains only a story level. I wish we had less information, as Mr. Djelic, informs you, for example in May 2011, how much money he gave us, so the Germans rightly boast that we received 980m euros from them, out of which 450 million grants, you say. Credit 530 million. Yeah, there are improvements somewhere but not as much and not proportionate. Or, if so, why didn't you come out and say so? Others in this aid are, they say, Americans. Vorlika says - we've invested $810 million. They are in second position on the list of individual countries by means of funds invested in Serbia. 1.2 billion euros were invested in energy. And the price of electricity, and the cost, and the abuse, and the mode of work, and the development of the electrical economy -- that's the question you need to answer. The money has also been used to improve the work of the judicial system institutions as well as to improve the water supply. As happy as we are all together, it will indeed show citizens in the elections. But what does the Serbian parliament do if it fails to submit a report that can enable proper identification? You have not delivered such reports of spending and borrowing and therefore do not deserve to vote for these agreements on which you have already signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56785	It was used 21 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. After him, MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56786	I'm glad the Deputy Prime Minister is here, because he was still involved in signing and creating these credit agreements. I think we should get this debate a little serious and leave some phrases behind. It is simply very important contracts, further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and, I would say, type contracts because again, as on previous occasions, you from the Government cannot agree on how high the interest is. Mr. Ciric said five, you said one point something, so there's obviously a different interpretation of these loans. As for the loan of a financial contract with the European Investment Bank, I would first say something about the justification of the loan. It shows that a simple loan has been made again in one of our already known circles between the Council of the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. However, there is no loan at all, except for a phrase by the intermediary, we do not know which bank will give these loans to those medium-sized enterprises. We can guess from the terms of this loan that it will be one of the banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and will probably be one of those EU banks holding 75% of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, which tells us specifically that the European Investment Bank will lend to a bank or more of them from the EU. That's the essence of this loan, and that's the essence of this whole story that we're supposed to be better off than these loans. I must say, Mr. Djelic, you again as the man in charge of European integration in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who leads this process against which we are, I think it is unacceptable that you allow serious technical errors to exist in this explanation. You're calling for article 309. Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community. It doesn't exist, you know that. There is only the EU, after the Lisbon Treaty. Also, in Articles 11 or 12, you have an invitation to court of the European Community. The court of the European community, Mr. Djelic, does not exist. I say it responsibly and everyone knows it. Anyone who has read anything about the EU knows that there is only the EU court. It is scandalous that you who swear in the EU do not know what is called the most important judicial body in the EU. You will allow this to be scandalous and that we from the opposition, which we are against both the EU and economic, political and in any other sense, must warn you of such technical, scandalous mistakes. I think it's simply not knowing the EU and proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia and all of the Brussels front are basically just hiding behind the phrase that the EU has no alternative, and it doesn't actually know anything about it. You certainly know, and here is the example of Ireland, Slovakia, Greece, etc., etc. I think it was correct by the legislator to tell us a little bit more about the European Investment Bank and, for example, to quote Protocol No. 5. which follows the Lisbon Treaty, where exactly who the main shareholders are and who owns the most funds in the European Investment Bank. I am responsible and it is no secret and it exists in the Protocol that follows the Lisbon Treaty that you are calling on to be the main shareholder of Germany, France, Italy and the UK. So, exactly those countries where they come from that they've ruined Greece. This is the European Investment Bank. You must know, and it's no secret, that exactly France and Germany's banks, France with 90 and something billion and Germany with 60 and something billion of the greatest trusts of the Greek state. We are now in charge of these well-intentioned creditors who have the biggest shares and the biggest assets in the European Investment Bank. So it's not about any institution that helps the Republic of Serbia, but it's about the establishment where Germany, France and other countries decide, because according to the Statute of the Board of Governors, it's about most of the votes entered, which is 50%. So is the board of directors, so is the Board of Directors. In this respect, it was necessary to write the law’s argument that it was an institution not based on economic postulates, but on the contrary, because the Board of Directors of the European Investment Bank is obliged, i.e. President, to elect the vice presidents of this bank. I will now quote these parts of the Protocol on the European Investment Bank: "Right towards national representation". The old MPs know what that means, and we remember that it was a key used in the former SFRY. So there's no talk of any experts, of any perfect laws, but it's simply about pushing the one who has the most capital. In this case, it's German and French bankers. Also, as regards this protocol, which you are keeping silent in the context of the Debt Law proposal, that protocol, which in fact justifys the functioning of the European Investment Bank, states in Article 20 that the Bank will continue to borrow funds on commercial interest, or Member States, or, on even worse terms, will forward them to such countries as we, which are trying to enter a supranational organisation that is already in its foundations, and that is clear, from Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, to Ireland, which is so quoted. Finally, as regards the reasoning of the law, I do not understand why you did not apply Article 27 of the Protocol on the functioning of the European Investment Bank, which explicitly allows for arbitration to be discussed in any contract concluded by the European Investment Bank. In the bill of law, you do not have arbitration, but is listed as some resolving body of the European Community court, which does not exist, as I have already said, but only the Court of Justice of the European Union, which in fact says, to be perfectly clear, that the Court of Justice of the European Union will defend European banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if there is a dispute with the Republic of Serbia, with the National Bank and with all our companies, if they ever get this credit when it is realised. As far as the bill itself and its members are concerned, you have scandalous definitions again. Already in the introduction of the bill, it says that the definition of an intermediary marks any bank in the Republic of Serbia that it chooses, I repeat, chosen by the European Investment Bank. So, the European Investment Bank will choose a bank in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not to lie, it will be one of those that holds 75% of our banking system from the European Union, and it will then forward again under the terms of the European Investment Bank, possibly also to companies from the European Union operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it is quite clear that it can happen that the European Investment Bank gives credit to a Western European bank operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and then it will be forwarded to a foreign company. It is a European path in essence and reality. However, in order for all of this to be forgotten, there must be something that always appears in such contracts, which is propaganda, propaganda of the European Union, and in Article 6. The bill states that intermediation banks and the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia are obliged, I quote, to conduct propaganda on behalf of the European Investment Bank electronically on their website and in other ways. Since previous members are quoted as saying that all the costs of this loan will be paid by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this specifically means this – the propaganda of the European Investment Bank and all accompanying costs will be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's basically what's being applied to this harmful contract. Also, there would be no doubt as to where the equipment for these medium-sized enterprises will be supplied, in Article 6. The bill states that the user, meaning this company, is obliged to buy, quote, to the satisfaction of the bank, in line with the European Investment Bank procurement guide. Therefore, it is clear that the European Investment Bank will determine where and how equipment will be purchased to continue these projects, which we know nothing about. It doesn't say anything in the bill. We can guess what kind of projects it'll be. Maybe it'll be some experts coming from the European Union, maybe not, we'll see. I hope we see more of you about these loans. Of course, as I have already mentioned, in Article 9. The Republic of Serbia pays taxes and all professional banking costs. We see again in Article 11, I have to repeat that it says that the parties undertake to be the court of the European Community in charge of disputes. So, a court that does not exist in legal and economic theory, there is only the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's, you'll admit, scandalous. I'm not asking for anyone's responsibility, but imagine who wrote this bill to you, because yet you run a sector for so-called European integration. In any case, we believe that this loan is harmful and that it is one in a series of harmful loans that is concluded with the European Investment Bank. We think the interest is too high. We believe that the terms of the loan are not clearly defined and we believe that this is essentially more politically than an economic loan. So, you'd better turn to co-operation with partners who don't offer and blackmail us with these economically harmful loans, for example, with the Russian Federation, which gives a lot less interest, but you seem to be unable to even document that already famous billion dollar loan to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56787	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56788	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, who knows what time we are giving guarantees today for the borrowing of our country and it is not disputed, although Mr. Djelic described everything in a relatively optimistic tone, that the country is rapidly in debt. We're in charge of future generations, and that's not a question when it comes to some projects. Here, after all, my colleagues were talking about Fiat, that there was no party interference, delays and deception so far, it's not a dispute, but there's still only one-third of us. We believe that this will produce, or make cars, a positive effect on the balance of payments. It won't be when it came out, but I guess it will be. You know, when we're in debt, since the loans are 20 years old, the baby that's just been born, if she's 20 years old, she's paying back the loan she's made out of, it's not controversial, she's driving along that path, she's walking along that road, and she should return it, however, it's controversial that this accelerated borrowing, and it's clear, as soon as the borrowing rate rises, that the elections are getting closer, it's objectively related to many companies whose borrowing has exceeded the property. I am talking about a problem that cannot be compared to that, and among other things because of what my colleagues said, that we cannot compare ourselves with Slovakia, not only because of NATO and clear views about it, but simply because of the absence of party-controlled state property, which is the case in Serbia. Let's remember the guarantee for 52 million credits for JAT, the director goes. It is now announced that someone else is coming and spending that money. It now announces the shift of Director Galenika and the borrowing of 70m or 80m euros, a company that this man has brought into a 100m-euro dubiosis. Indemnity of the Galenika is about twice as much as anyone would offer in the tender for Galenika right now. Let's think of a number of examples. Here, for example, Serbiagas. This summer, we are likely to vote here for guarantees for the borrowing of Serbiaagas for 210 million more. Last summer or autumn we gave guarantees here for 170 million. In total with these 210m euros, Serbia will be in charge of 630m euros. It's absolutely unimaginable, and it's an asset that isn't managed in a way that I'm sure will be managed by the Fiat in Kragujevac, for the simple reason that we'll only have a third and those two-thirds. It's a similar case with a combination of Bor. We gave guarantees for a new 200m-euro gunnery. The foundation stone should be opened next Friday. That's why I'm sorry Mr. Ciric isn't here since he announced the reorganisation and bankruptcy of the Bor combinations. I quote it – the aim of this organization is to make Bor a financially healthy company, from which I conclude that it certainly is not now, and in a situation where the price of copper is the largest in history. There will be four companies in one, and, to be fair, in the future privatisation of that combination, it should just separate the parts of the company and sell them by the parts because, ultimately, two failed privatisations show that this is not going to work. This is an example, all of what I have stated, that borrowing the country is in the condition of the existence of party property essentially fatal to those who come, who will repay the loan. Until the system changes, which the LDP stands for, these borrowings will be dysfunctional, they will not bring the desired effects but will, on the contrary, essentially be reduced to pre-election spending. Bor was told there were supplies in the pine pit, the director promised President Tadic that a thousand tonnes of copper would be removed monthly, and now the balance is only 40 tonnes. That's probably why President Tadic won't come to the opening of the smelter, although they paint only one side of the house, expecting him, and those three leave. It's about the state of the public sector run by party personnel, and here with your votes, once a month we give guarantees and we owe future generations for something that won't throw away profit, for something that won't give an effect that, hopefully, "Fiat" will give.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56789	National MP, time at the disposal of the parliamentary group has been used. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has his word, and after him is Marina Toman's folk messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56790	Unlike his previous counterpart, who expressed hope that "Fiat" will fulfil his obligations based on everything we have the opportunity to see in the past two and a half years, I have no hope, and what I am surprised is the tenacity that government representatives, including Mr Djelic, continue to deceive Serbian citizens. Mr. Djelic, I must tell you quite frankly that you are one of the most representative examples of that policy, which in continuity in the past three, four years, in the most cruel way possible deceives the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're a marathon running an honorary circle. You promised Serbian citizens a lot of things: 400,000 jobs, better wages, socially responsible government, European integration, and from that, we see clearly now, there is nothing. This tenacity of yours that, even at this point, you are defending political views that, if you believe, at least a large part of your colleagues who are in your party do not believe can only be justified by the euphoria that you are inclined to talk about the EU, which is equal to our national, state, economic and economic interests. Mr. Djelic, instead of talking to your colleague, it would be good if you couldn't look more citizens in the eyes, at least look at me. Look and listen to what I'm about to tell you... (President: Please, without direct address to other participants at a session or more politely, regardless of the argument. If it's desirable to be sharp, no direct address. It's strictly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. I thank you. Let it be rude for three years to assign Serbian citizens three and a half billion. You will allow it to be rude that only this year this country is in debt for nearly a billion dinars. You will allow this country to survive, and that is rude to the citizens of Serbia, by issuing short- and long-term records of 1.5 billion euros, so you no longer know how we will and who will repay that money. So much for rudeness. I think it is rude and that it is high time to stop demeaning our own people by giving them false hope, arguing that the condition for EU entry is not Kosovo, arguing that we are not over-indebted, arguing that the job with the "Fiita" and this loan that is now on the agenda in Serbia's interest. I'm interested in the minister's opinion, I won't call him personally, but is this loan in Serbia's interest? If so, I want to hear too much, rationally, economically-founded explanation, which is why it's in the interest. The ink Mr Djelic signed with the SAA, which he is proud of, will cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia dearly. The same ink cost the Republic of Serbia when a contract with the "Fiita" was signed in 2008. Is it true, Minister, that the following thing was then signed – that it is under the obligation "Fiat" to invest 200m euros in the flag and that Serbia invests 700m euros? What's been accomplished? That obligation was in 2009. Has the Fiat fulfilled a contractual obligation that you often call upon when you talk about European integration, so euphorically, I would say fanatically? I don't think so. Is there a signed annex to that contract, for the simple reason that nothing is respected? Yes, it is. What it said in that annex is that this obligation remains. Did he meet his obligation after that annex "Fiat"? It's not. He met in part, paid 99.4m euros. Did the government of the Republic of Serbia say last year that an additional 100m euros will be paid and that this year's Fiat will invest 600m euros? It was said last year that Serbian citizens know that 600m euros will be invested in Kragujevac. Did that happen? That didn't happen. Is there any reason for the economic crisis? You've been denying this economic crisis all along, you haven't admitted it, you've said it's a developmental opportunity, as you don't recognize now how difficult our country is and how much debt it's facing. Today we're talking about some 700 million. Today you will adopt a new agenda where we approve 150 million loans. The question is, how far, what is the price of your authority? Are you aware that when we come to the elections, not only will you not have the moral right to fight for power, you will not have the moral right to justify the purpose of your authority, because for these three and a half years you have destroyed the state, lying to the people to defend Kosovo and to fight for European integration. You have destroyed all institutions and destroyed what is equally important - the economy and economy of this country. I'm saying it's a plan. You, from the blindness that has blinded you to the European institutions, do not see clearly the interest of your own country. You don't know what the interest of your own state is, you don't understand Serbia, you don't know where you are, you're lost in time and space. You're defending your own authority with your bare marketing assets. That's a fact, and you'll be doing it in the next period, but trust me, you're not gonna make it. So this over-indebted borrowing is certainly leading us into something called debt slavery. This is where the statistics are hidden – did we exceed 45% of the social product or did we not? Of course we are and of course the debt is unbearable and of course we won't be able to repay it. Here I ask you plainly, tell us – does the contract say that 200,000 cars will be produced in this Kragujevac, or is that another fiction, as your fiction was, that we will be in the EU in 2007, as your fiction was in 2008 when you claimed to be in the EU in 2012? Tell me – what is more realistic, that Serbia should be in the EU in 2020 or that Serbia produces 200,000 cars in 2012? You didn't protect your own country, and you're going into business with a serious firm. You didn't get the guarantees of what commitment "Fiat" will take, first to hire workers, what wages there will be and how many cars will be produced. The only thing we have is your false promises, but, look, no one believes in them anymore. Why would he trust you, because you've promised so many things over the past period to your own people, and now you're in a tight space, where you're trying to get out of these false promises in some awkward way, but it's not going to work out for you. You here have to answer, at least try, because this is a very unusual point. We've been discussing today since 11:00, and you're the third minister to come here. First he was Minister Ciric, and then Minister Kalanovic came, so now you're coming. You're talking about some different interest, you haven't agreed to the story, you're competing in promises, and we actually see that there's nothing out of those promises. Answer the question, i.e. give the Serbian public a guarantee that you and the Fiat agreed to produce 200,000 cars in the coming period in the following year. If you can't say that here, then admit that in 2008 you lied to your own people, that you deceived them, that that statement is equal to that that statement that you will pay at least 1,000 euros to every citizen in this country, that you will increase your pensions to 70% of your personal income and that, as I have already mentioned at the beginning, you will employ 400,000 people. Mr. Djelic, I can only give you advice for this little time while you're still in power. Don't ruin everything in the state and don't let the state go to hell. She's on her way to hell, but don't be so euphoric and so Eurofanatic, you can't see from blindness that you'll lead the country to that point that those who come to power after you won't be able to fix the situation so easily. I would ask you once again most kindly to answer these questions that I have asked you and no matter what you will answer, and I suppose what kind of answer it will be, I am telling the citizens of Serbia - God help us with such authority, with such ministers who do not understand their own people and who do not recognize the state, national and economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56791	Twelve minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is a folk letter from Marina Toman, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56792	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out at the beginning of the discussion, as well as my colleagues, that as government representatives have been replaced today in this House, credit conditions have changed, which is indeed scandalous and inadmissible. Let's get back to signing alone. Mr. Djelic, you said at the signing that Serbia's export economy received a significant financial injection. However, the question arises – can the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the taxpayers, withstand such a financial injection? That is, the question arises – what will the economy and what will the citizens of Serbia get with these arrangements? Governor Soskic argues that they represent a significant step forward on Serbia's path towards a new export-oriented development concept. However, can there be a step forward in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises if systemic problems are not solved in a business environment, or can these problems disappear during the night, can they be removed by loans? Of course I can't. These arrangements are presented as a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the question arises – how much will these small and medium-sized enterprises actually benefit, and how much will the business banks benefit from which these loans will go? Also, there is much unknown – under what conditions will small and medium-sized enterprises receive loans? Let me repeat, as the government's representatives in this House changed today, so did credit conditions. So Minister Ciric said that the interest rate, to quote, would be about 5-5.5%. If I'm not mistaken, you've reduced that interest rate and it's going to be about 1.6% according to your words. We're simply interested in what it is and what data can small and medium-sized enterprises rely on? So one extremely contradictory piece of information. She's also a stranger to what small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to borrow. Namely, the non-compliance criterion sets out the European Investment Bank in a letter to be provided to the borrower. As it stands in the bill, they can be changed by the bank's policies. So at this point, you don't know which companies are going to be able to apply for these loans. Government representatives presented this as a chance for domestic and foreign businesses. There is one reasonable doubt that these loans will end, that they will be given a chance to compete for them primarily by foreign companies. Proposals for a law confirming a contract between Serbia and the European Investment Bank on a loan guarantee, which is taken by the said bank by the company "Fiat Cars of Serbia", also opens several dilemmas. One is the dilemma – does taking a 500m-euro loan mean that the factory in Kragujevac will only pay off the initial investment to which the "Fiat" committed in 2008? The second dilemma is – will the Republic of Serbia, which is a guarantee of the part of the loan, help him? The third option, or the third scenario, does not exist. Minister Ciric said today he will not return Serbia, but will do "Fiat". But who can be sure of that? When you give guarantees you never know, and no one can safely claim that they will not be activated. Minister Ciric also reiterated that it is his personal opinion, and indeed ask that Serbia give guarantees, and that someone explains it in a personal opinion, it is indeed inadmissible. It's taxpayers' money. On the fact that Fiat has only invested 99.4m euros so far and that the state of Serbia provides guarantees for loans, the whole serious story of some major Fiat investment in a factory in Kragujevac ends. When a joint venture contract was signed in 2008, Fiat pledged to invest around 700m euros, while the Republic of Serbia pledged to settle its commitments of 200m euros in money and 50m in tax relief. At the time, no one mentioned that the Republic of Serbia, or taxpayers, would be guaranteed loans the company takes to invest in equipment, buildings, technology and a number of other things. At the time, no one mentioned that Fijat would invest only 100m euros and that the remaining 600m euros would be invested from a loan for which part of the guarantee would be provided by the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting otherwise that the Republic of Serbia provides guarantees for 40% of credits and the "Fiat" for about 60% of loans. Representatives of the government who come to parliament with such proposals should, above all, answer several important questions. First, in no serious state guarantees are given lightly. Guarantees are not explained by the words - they need to be driven according to plan by December 2011. It's okay, that's a fact, the plants should be able to fit by December 2011, but that doesn't explain why Serbia should be a guarantee of credit. Secondly, in no serious state, government representatives would be able to explain such proposals without giving us precise information before that, or data on how much the Fiat Group has so far invested in the "Fiat Cars of Serbia" and how much total investments and incentives of the Republic of Serbia have been made, in May. Thirdly, it is very unserious to ask for Serbia to be guaranteed, and that MPs are not familiar before that, i.e. they are not presented with a precise plan and programme for future development and the work of the factory from Kragujevac. Minister Ciric made only a few sentences about it, referring to the business plan, however, very grossly, we could hear very inaccurately that he would produce new models that are not produced anywhere in the world. We could hear that the cars were going to be exported, but to what markets? It's the Russian Federation market again. However, as we know, the representatives of Russia have rejected it, and you mention that same market again. Also, we could hear that about 200,000 cars will be produced, said Minister Kalanovic. After an hour, Minister Djelic increased it by 50,000. The question is, if another government official comes, will he raise it to 300,000, 350,000? Indeed, it is extremely unserious to bid on data that is not accurate. Plays with numbers, and no concrete plans and programs are presented. You will agree that without concrete and precise data, Minister Djelic, any story about why it is important for Serbia to be guaranteed loans is somewhat unserious. Besides, without it, no serious businessman, and I suppose neither of you, would provide guarantees for any project or credit, or would not risk it and in this case you risk taxpayers' money. These are some reasons why we won't support these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56793	Nine minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Before I give my word to the MP next according to the application for a word, just to remind the National Assembly, based on article 90. Item 2, that I have already been around 15.30 hours, extending my work today, announced that a session scheduled for 17.00 hours will take place after the day of voting and the conclusion of a session whose debate is under way. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, so here's a little bit as soon as Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic announced that macroeconomic stability has been secured in Serbia, which will continue in the coming year, the EIB has approved a new 750m-euro loan, and it seems that the Serbian government has achieved another impressive success in the fight against the domestic and world crisis, and this new borrowing must have made an additional step towards EU integration that it is seeking. What we've already talked about, and what's ultimately your statement, Mr. Djelic, about that famous financial injection, is quite interesting what will hurt us all from that mentioned injection. The largest part of the loan, about 500m euros, was taken to invest in the company Fiat Serbia, and these remaining 250m are intended to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, which is somewhat logical because you have destroyed all major businesses. It is particularly pointed out that 30m euros is directed to help the media, which basically means that we are expected to have a political reality show as early as these days. This all leads us to one logical conclusion, which is that it is obvious that the current government is already very much preparing for the elections, so this latest story about loans is actually just a continuation of what we have already heard, especially in the last few years. Of course, there is no end in this whole unfortunate story because, as we were able to inform ourselves, according to the announcements of the Director of the Public Debt Administration, Serbia would be broadcasting euro bonds on the international financial market worth $1 billion by the end of the year. Also, it will charge another 100m euros through three-year bonds in euros. It is interesting in the whole story that the EIB, which has now approved the 750m-euro loan, already owes the Serbian state 888m euros, local self-government nearly 132m, and banks and businesses 173m euros. In the previous two years, the repayment of the foreign debt has reached 11% of GDP, while GDP has reached a growth of only 1.8%. There's some kind of universal economic rule that if the mass of payments is the main interest in one year is greater than GDP, that country is very in charge. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia has been in debt to international financial institutions, but credit funds are obviously not invested where they should have been, in infrastructure, but rather, like those of the IMFs that were used to boost foreign reserves, spending as much as three and a half billion euros on the foreign market since October 2008 until the end of last year. Now, where it ended, you'll probably know that one day. I would return to the very beginning of the story, so 500m euros for a mixed company with the Fiat. One logical question is raised – if the state is so in debt to make a car factory, then what was the "Fiat" needed, and what is the "Fiat" all over the story investing and how much has it ever invested and whose firm is it? It is certain that time is slowly moving away and that some things are coming to the surface, that it turns out in fact that the arrangement of the Republic of Serbia with the Italian "Fiat Group", from Turin, as they once called it the representatives of the government, the work of the century, is obviously turning into a pretty big mistake maybe even centuries ago. These 500m euros planned to expand the capacity of the joint company Fiat cars of Serbia in Kragujevac will be realised by the government of Serbia accepting that the state will be guaranteed to return 200m euros, while Fijat and the Italian Business Insurance Agency provide guarantees for the remaining amount of credit by not entering the payment method etc. It is interesting that in an explanation for the guarantee that the Serbian government has stated, the EIB interest will be a fixed interest rate established on an annual basis by the EIB and a variable interest rate which is equivalent to the six-month budget, plus or minus the growth set by the EIB. What's the point of all this, or where's the beginning of the problem? That was already the case, historic 29 September 2008, when a contract was signed between representatives of Serbia and the "Fiat Group" from Turin, not a single provision of the Agreement on Joint Investments of the "Fiat Group" and the Republic of Serbia in the existing capacity of the Zastava factory, which the Serbian government has also disclosed, is not foreseen as an investment instrument. The entire story with Fiat would probably have a different flow, if it had known what the Italians were up to now, that they had invested only 99.4m euros, and apparently these remaining 600m from those famous 700, as mentioned, would be mostly secured from credit sources of funding. It has also been hidden that the joint venture "Fiat Cars Serbia" will practically be credit-loaded before the start of production of this so-announced new Fiat model, and that, of course, it will all significantly reduce the potential profits and dividends that should be merged into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Not to mention, at the very start of Fiat, there were amazing incentive measures, gifts in the form of 67 hectares of land, with the obligation to provide an additional 70 hectares, to grant state subsidies to newly employed workers, subsidies to car sales to Punta, etc. As troublesome as the whole story is, we are going back to the very beginning, because the private problem continues already with the transfer of money from Turin to Kragujevac, and then for all this time, no one has dared from the Serbian government to bring out any real information about how much money it really is, as of today, the Fiat group from Turin has ever invested in the company "Fiat Cars of Serbia". The point is, in fact, Fiat's intention to make investment commitments is realised through a loan. The problem is that it is burdened by this newly established company "Fiat Cars Serbia" and, of course, by the state of Serbia as a shareholder of this company. What's behind this whole story? Of course the election. We remember 2008 and the announced arrival of the "Fiat Group" in the Republic of Serbia, the signing of a memorandum of understanding and, of course, it was a central topic in that campaign, which ultimately led to the victory of the ZES-Boris Tadic coalition. Of course, there are parliamentary elections ahead of Serbia in the coming period, and it is clear that now the story is focusing on some apparent result of what was promised earlier. The new Fiat model, which is supposed to come down from that factory lane at the end of 2011, is nothing more than apparently one of the biggest bids in the election story. At the end of the auctioning round the number of cars produced, etc., the whole story is funny, because at the best time, in 1989, when the flag was a renowned factory, a record production of 220,000 cars was achieved. In the end, I'll go back to Mirko Cvetkovic. He said Serbia went through the economic crisis relatively better than most other countries and its size, for which they received confirmations from foreign officials coming into our country as a government. This would end with – while you are trying to build a car, trains of hope for a better life for the Serbian state are passing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56795	Nine minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. After her, MP Zoran Krasic and he was last reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56796	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, it's good that you just went out for a little while and went back to the O.R. I'd like to wait for you anyway. You know some on the political scene in Serbia have short memories, and these are certainly not Serbian radicals. The moment you became finance minister in that first Dossian government after the fifth of October's coup, to this day, we remember all your statements. We don't even have to surf the Internet. They are so striking that they are recorded in financial, economic and whatever you want in Serbia's collapse. In order for this story to live up to the "Fiat Car" and these guarantees, I need to remind the citizens of Serbia and ask you -- where's that Yugoslav convertible? You're probably driving it or it's somewhere nice in the garage, or your train park. Since you were the main promoter of the South convertible in Kragujevac - you bought it, right? You haven't had that 11 million from Meridian Bank yet. If you're 11 or 12 now, I don't want to get into it. But then you were a modest man and a minister and you said – South convertible is a nice car for me. And what you promised at the time -- that it would be a car that many citizens of Serbia will drive from domestic factories. As for the Fiat project and your statements on 6 May, Đurđevdan, the city's fame of the town of Kragujevac, 2008, just a few days before the elections, Mr Dinkic and Mr Tadic, however, all of this turned upside down. Today, the epilogue is entirely unfavourable for the state of Serbia. You would not, in addition to Glorifying some projects that cannot be implemented in Serbia as you wish, and you are inclined to do so, would not make a statement like Minister Kalanovic did in the morning. Do you know what she said to the public? Here, Mrs. Comic chaired. It says -- that the Serbian government provides 200 million guarantees for Fiat is no burden, because it is not Serbia's borrowing. Mr. Djelic, you know very well as an economist, that the guarantee goes into public debt. Now answer, after this presentation or at the end of the discussion – has the state of Serbia already exceeded 45% of GDP already, as far as it can be under the Public Debt Act? You know very well, and that's what we discussed... Mrs. Comic, I see the MPs are gathering on the eve of the vote, but I ask you to warn them not to disturb me. In this atmosphere, I cannot continue my exposure. If everyone's on the count, let them all die so I can keep talking. As for this public debt, Mr. Djelic, it is so fixed up to 45% of GDP, and I guarantee that beyond that, as in many units local self-government is over 30% over-indebted, credits are allowed. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance gave such agreement to many cities and municipalities, taking into account only the part that covers the capital, not the incoming interest. As counterpart Dragan Stevanovic said here, it begins to return many loans in 2026, where generations that are yet to stop when you are retired and I don't know which of the world's corporations, and you will find a place, how you advised the Jeljcin government and how you came here, you will probably go to some American and other administration, but will remain debts only born and even unborn children to live in Serbia, Mr Djelic. Let's go back, because you're an expert in the automotive industry, and you're also a spokesman for the Fiat Company, since you generously give them everything. The town of Kragujevac did everything that was up to him. So, it's all done to secure the Fiat company, the Fiat cars to build freely in Kragujevac, to get land. Compensation fees for construction land were released, and fees for the company until 2018. There was a big problem with property owners in the already famous Korman field. Mr. Dinkic, who is just leaving the O.R., is the main culprit for violent expropriation. So we have two continents -- one, where people own their own property where they've never done an expropriation and we have the part where the expropriation is arranged for 70 and some years. With the decision of the highest court instance, the 1999 Constitutional Court of Serbia, the expropriation of 70 and some years, from Broz's communist time, was annulled. What did you do, Mr. Dinkich? In May, in fact, in January 2010, he remembered that there was some expropriation in the Korman field, where Manela should build her own drive and then say, "We're going to make it quick now, by government's decision, and that was 21 January 2010, to take it back to the peasants." People have deedes and say, "This is returned." Then they reach out and make a deal with Fiat. They say, "You want that land again?" You're going to pay $1,200 - 1,300 now, so when you buy it, what the state couldn't take away from them, we're going to pay you and these private owners only 350 euros per ar the next day. So there was this whole drama, 500 cops at three o'clock every morning in a quiet village, where people live fair their lives from their work, and then, of course, after two years of distracting people in Korman, they gave up on it and moved on to the location of the Grošnica barracks, where all the facilities are now collapsing. I'm asking you, Mr. Djelic, who will now pay compensation to those people for not working on their land for two years? They decided, so the market, the demand offer, you did it violently with that false expropriation. These others who have their land you have deceived, you say. They ask for enormous money. Excuse me, please, what's that peasant gonna do now and who's gonna complain to? Who can complain about the one who doesn't have anti-urban protection in Aleksinac, the Lucians and all over Serbia, because it's NATO standards, so there's no anti-urban protection and then everything is destroyed, and the raspberries and all the fruit and all the crops? That's how you do it, and that's how you destroy agriculture and agriculture. But now let's move on to this favorite part of yours, how you understand each other and how you praised that "Jugo convertible." Explain to me, Mr. Djelic, you or Mr. Dinkic, if he's here in the O.R., how the Fiat decided, because you arranged with them to do it, someone mentioned it and called him so-called. female car model, it was actually supposed to be a city car, you've repeatedly repeated it to the heads of government so-called. two plus two, with 600 turbocubics, as it went from that, therefore, non-existent model, one such as that exists, but it was supposed to be brand new, so, for the poor, families that have multiple families, who can't buy those cars, this car "Lazero" that's lower middle class, it has 1400 cubics and that will cost, depending on the equipment, from 12 to 17,000 euros? Mr. Dinkic said he would buy that car first when it came down from the Fiat factory band, we just don't know when, because it's always lying and pro-longing and it's a big scam. How did you come to this and how did the Italians decide to distract you like that? Mr. Djelic, the car that is produced here, says experts who deal with the market and the automotive industry, and who should meet the needs of an average family in Serbia, so the car that is produced here first needs to find a place on its market, is certainly not a car that will cost so much, because this one would cost less. It could be bought by those who never got in the car. You know, like he used to be a popular Fica, so he simply bought it by the one who lives in some remote village in the city of Serbia. So, you say -- and no, it won't be for the Serbian market, Mr Dinkic said this morning, but we're going to export it to America and the Western European Union countries. Mr Djelic, the new car that will be produced in Serbia is almost identical to the existing model "Fiat Idea". You know what that Idea Fiat car looks like. So, that's the platform we're working on. It's like a restaling thing, it's got a new name, maybe it's a slightly different body, it's got this cubicity, like I told you, 1400 cc's. Do you know what kind of crash that Idea car is, which is exactly the same as the one that's about to be made here, was experienced on the American market? It's a disaster. This morning we heard from Dinkic and Kalanovic that he would be the most exported there. In America, Fiat hired one of Hollywood's most famous actors, George Clooney, to advertise that idea. The sale was awfully small. In Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, which used, which is new, 35,000 cars are sold annually, and you can see cars being competed in giving various other "subsidies", but supplements when you come to them to buy it. Secondly, Mr. Djelic, the biggest lie that has been told, in addition to "Fiat" not investing 600, how long it took, direct investments in the Kragujeva factory, but only 99.4, and we have no data, you will now tell us because the researcher "Greater Serbia" journalist Mr. Ivan Minic tried to get that information more times in the Serbian government, so he did not. That information was given to him by another state body. It's actually a real enigma. There is no answer in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So the data he came across through another institution in the APR is that Serbia has so far invested 281 million, now this guarantee, it's the same 200 million, you know, you guarantee it. How much has "Fiat" invested so far? Is this information we're talking about true? On the other hand, Mr. Djelic, and this is a big question for all of us living in Kragujevac – how do you think that this test model or the first one to get off the tape, and the first one to buy Mr. Dinkic, when no basic assumptions were made from the memoirands and contracts? I don't know when you were last in Kragujevac, but I have to tell you, he's directly responsible, neither is Milutin Mrkonjic, nor is anyone else, but Verica Kalanovic, who boasts very much about her projects. When will the remaining 15 kilometers of Kragujevac-Batočina stock be completed, then the southern bypass around the "Fiyat", then infrastructureally to equip the industrial zone this new one that was moved to Grošnica, so that access to traffic is reconstructed? You say all this is going to happen just when you need it before the election and the campaign next year. You won't be able to, Mr. Djelic, so you're cheating on the citizens anymore. You thought you could fool them when you said that the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation meant the most to the new automotive industry that would be launched, those were your statements in 2008, and then Mr. Shoigu came and told you – that's out of the question, it's not a Serbian product. Mr Putin came in here and talked to the heads of the parliamentary groups, only to tell Mladjan Dinkic that there was nothing he could do. Then a few days ago, when we had the Law on the financing of local self-government, Mrs Grubjesic told us that no one had ever said that, that the new car, now not this small one, but that from the middle class would be exported to the Russian market. He said it directly, Mladjan Dinkic and you all the other leaders of the government. Mladjan Dinkic said at the opening of the International Conference of the Car Industry, titled "New Production Centres and Chains of Suppliers in Serbia", Serbia's main advantage of having signed free trade agreements with CEFTA, EFTA, the Agreement with Russia, Belarus and Turkey, and announced the signing of an agreement with Ukraine. Now, you get one of your favorite Hollywood actresses in America, or you'll see what you're going to do, advertise instead of "Idea." I don't know, Mr. Djelic, why don't you make a deal with the fiathes, the idea has been a disaster there, to which you're going to sell so many cars, especially on the overcrowded Western European market. Explain to us how much the state has invested so far, and the Fiat, we guarantee 99.4 million. I'll end up with the Italians not doing well in Kragujevac either. I don't know if you've heard of it, Mr. Djelic, a few days ago, an Italian who works for the Fiat company was caught by the police, or by the owner, and then brought in by the police, stealing from the coffee shop. Since Mr. Zeljko Tomic said that we should all learn to speak perfect Italian by now because everything's going to bloom, I certainly know that since, you see, this Italian isn't well either, the most common word my fellow citizens are going to say is "mama mia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56797	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go. You have 22 minutes left, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56798	At first, I need to draw attention to all those who follow this transmission so they don't think something epochal happened. A short time ago, they were criticised by the parties of Kostunica by Mladjan Dinkic, Djelic, and they were in the coalition, they are well-known, and who they are and what they are. The only party that has been criticising this kind of accelerated, unfeeling, zero-provoked borrowing from the Republic of Serbia since 2001, whether it is direct borrowing, whether it is the borrowing of public enterprises, whether it is a guarantee, whether it is the broadcasting of securities of value, in order to bridge the gaps in current financing, means that only the SRS in time indicated that we will come and at some point realize that it is not only what it can no longer be, but that all the effects of borrowing are negative and essentially a failure. When all that has come into this country for the past 11 years, it is tens of billions of euros spent, which is in charge, which is donated, which is a sort of honor for the collapse of the state, and as a consequence of that, there has been nothing positive but layoffs from jobs, privatisations, not to say giving, bribes, corruption, crime and negative results. What a serious government would have to do is report what has been done with so far's assets based on the task. Unfortunately, we have virtually no final account adopted in the National Assembly since 2002, which means that Europe, or Europe, has made you promote democratic standards. He's spending, and he can't take any bills. It's probably like that in Germany, Switzerland, France and other countries, so that this operation here would work. Then we had a whole range of moves, fines, fraud and masculine. Let's go now, since this is a part of the agenda, it can be called a masculine. The English series "Males." In one period Mr Djelic screamed from our pay phone – let's go, let's go to Europe. Remember that, even poor Vesna Pesic couldn't listen anymore to Bozidar Djelic. But no one could assume that as a reward for that scream, Mr Djelic, last year, was going to register a large amount of cheese, which he received on a gift as a state official. You know, when a man, as a state official, gives himself cheese, then you can see where the cheese is as a gift, or for nothing. In a mouse hunt. But it looks good on Mr. Djelic, he's so exasperated, cheerful, euphoric, he doesn't need to bear any responsibility for this here. You remember in 2003 they barely kept him from fleeing abroad, so probably now it would be good to confiscate his passport, because it's a strange time. (President: Please, I would really ask you to take care of the comments you make to the members of the government. But I didn't talk about your passport, Mrs. Djukic. (President: What were you not talking about? I didn't talk about your passport at all, Mrs. Djukic. (President: I would ask you to take care of the dignity of the Assembly together. Now I'm asking you to do it. Don't put me in an awkward situation, please. ) There is no more dignified MP in the National Assembly who is fighting for the interest of the Serbian people and the Serbian state than I am, I guarantee you, it is an internationally proven situation, fact, absolutely. But let's move on. Then we had a minister who told us about the Irish miracle. So Serbia should be an Irish miracle. In 2006, as part of the parliamentary delegation of the Republic of Serbia, we visited Ireland, their Doyle, and we talked there for several days, and here I was interested, Radojko Obradovic was interested in explaining to us what an Irish miracle means. I'm sorry, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, your colleague, the chairman, first of all, was not clear to him, so when we tried to explain to him that we had a minister who said – if Ireland could be a miracle, it could be Serbia a miracle. Then he said, "Bibip," that's what he said. If you don't believe me, read the parliamentary delegation's reports. I did my best to write exactly what the man said. Then he says what a black miracle we are, he says for 25 years there was no dog to bite us for, we made some transformation, we started with education, we made it possible for people to get educated, etc. We were praised by the Irish that two years before our visit, for the first time in history, they introduced a television broadcast from Doyle. But, people, we've had this since Slobodan Milosevic. So that Irish miracle story doesn't have a slight connection, now we've heard the story of a Slovak miracle. I'll tell you right now, it doesn't matter either, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Let's remember a few years ago epochal results, it never happened in Serbia's history or long ago, from that Lazar Pachu, the sun warmed us up, so we got a very smart finance minister, an expert, and a surplus appears. It's not even a few months, it's a deficit. How come the surplus, the deficit, what are people, aman people? It's like that Jay at the bus station and those three dice, now you see him, now you don't see him. Where's the ball, hit it, and it was all going well, it was going away. It's been a free campaign of 1,000 euros, passed Bor, passed "Fiat", all of it passed, passed, tumbling trains with us, etc. But it's all a bunch, a bunch, a bunch, and it's piled up dangerously, have you seen and these uninformed have been notified in the meantime, and these uninformed are criticizing us, you know. So it's something spectacular. When they finally found out who they were with in the government and the coffees were all operations. I ask you, why did you punish us all these years when we criticized you? We were just telling you that, that's what we were talking about. He can't be in debt like that, he can't be in debt like that. The problem is a far greater nature, but not to waste this precious time, since I need to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that what we are living today are European standards. We don't need the money at all, or the date of the negotiations and those things, living by European standards, having parades, having licks, having a fight against smokers, having a drug-stimulating, having everything that Europe has. Let's look up to Europe. As you worry whether your idea will fail on the way to the EU, we live by European standards. Every citizen is over-indebted as the average citizen in the EU is in charge, and pays off one loan, immediately reminds him of two banks, it's time to take the next loan, we give you very nice conditions, and then starts, the interest rate, libor, Eurolibor, this, what, tandars, mandars. Until someone figures out if the franc, whether the euro, does this, does that, does that sound nice from a playful commercial, so you know those pretty kids, and then those beautiful songs, no matter how much a man doesn't take on the lysing, he wants to take on the lollipop. And you're swimming. When the question arises, where is this money that came from abroad? They're gone, spent it. Who spent it? Well, these spent them well, of course they did, and you have to vote for them to make them even nicer. However, a line has come, 92% of citizens will not even hear about the NATO Pact, 80% of citizens do not want to hear about the EU. For 10, 11 years, we have literally been shooting, warning citizens what can happen to them, that there is no bright future for Serbia with such specimens, that there is no salvation for Serbia Boris Tadic, that there is no salvation for Serbia's pro-European policy found. Some did not trust us, so overnight they changed their ideology to catch a link to the EU, where there is money for them, will be for us, so they changed their ideology. But there's a bar in Europe, too, and there's scary crocodiles there, so when they open their jaws, they swallow everything in order, so you know. Now you've paid your tribute to that pro-Western policy. You'd be changing that by 180 degrees in the next 15 days, some of you. But it's too late. The taxi meter's numbered its own. You must go that way, of course you must listen to Mladjan Dinkic as the main economic visionary, as Verica Kalanovic said earlier. He says we had a vision. She had a vision, imagine, a vision. The illusion that the flag will work, that Fiat will come out. You know how nice that sounds on commercials. Now let me let you know, you've been through these halls a little while ago, have you seen it on that board? It's an international organization that has been certifications to local self-government units that are developing a very favourable business environment. Which their common name to be NAED. Not all those municipalities on ice. Everything's been going to Serbia since you got here. Everything's on ice. A week ago, you're saying you have bad local self-government units, and now you see international organisations giving certificates. Oh, my God, did you share those certificates? Well, you're like the other one. You're in charge of passports, certificates, cattle passports and these things. All of this according to European standards must be. It doesn't matter if he has it or not, it has to be European, certified. We used to joke about that beer, you know, Niksicko, that's a certified European. You're jumping your popularity. Do you know how popular you are? They can't wait to see you get eaten with your teeth. Your teeth would tear you apart. Especially those who can't get out of the container because of the European transformation of RS. Who's gonna be okay? Now we're reading something written by the bill promoter. I don't know who wrote it specifically, I see Mirko Cvetkovic in the signature, let's be that Mirko Cvetkovic, I doubt he knows what's written here. First law on the agenda. Mr. Djelic, I know you can explain everything. God forbid you are golden, so when you go, no one can stop you, it's liturgy for two and a half hours. This is what the first law says - RS citizens should jump out of happiness because we will receive 100 million loans from the International Bank. Here's what Mr. Djelic and his buddies are gonna spend that money on. First, you listen carefully, reforms in public spending distribution to improve the quality of consumption in sectors with the highest consumption. Well done, how cleverly you came up with this. These are real French schools. Under two, public finance management reforms in order to address the problem of poor management of fiscal spending and improve trustee conditions. You're a genius, Bozo. Who would have thought of such nonsense to write? Who's alive to understand what's written? (President: I'll tell you something now. This is not allowed. Why? (President: I'll give sanctions next time if I have to talk to you like this. All right. You're taking this anti-European time away from me. Don't do it again. Under three, strengthening social aid for depreciation, is not for amortizers in the Fiat, but for amortising the effects of the current crisis and increasing the coverage of the programme in the future. I have no doubt that you can all explain to me nicely what every word of these means. I can't ask you this question, I didn't qualify to talk to you, I don't know those European standards. You see, it's very hard to read this. It's just for those of you to realize it, I don't know. What else did you write in your explanation? It says, the intended purpose of the loan series for development policy needs in the area of public finances is to provide assistance to the formation, remember, of a smaller and more efficient state administration system while establishing and implementing appropriate social programmes. Why didn't you tell them that we finished this, that we passed that law to reduce the number of employees in the state administration. It's not like they're going to finance the same thing twice again. It's just amazing. You see what costs we have around these papers and what everything can be done here, to write. It must not be seen where these hundred million dollars will be spent, and it will be spent, and then when it is taken in tranches then a special team comes to do, Mrs. Djukic I will use the foreign word – monitoring of Boza and the people in charge of applying this law. Dear citizens, monitoring means watching them, having to watch them, watching them deeply to see what happened to that money. If it is found to be bribery and corruption, those who observe will remain silent. Why? Tactics to pull them into the net and then hold them by their fists and they can manipulate them to the will. That's why we have so much money coming in. (President: Your interpretations damage the reputation of the National Assembly and the State. All your interpretations. That's your subjective feeling. (President: It's not a subjective feeling. Please, you can't interpret what you're talking about. If I were to tell you about my subjective feelings, it would be really untasteful. My subjective feelings about government officials simply don't allow me to say things. You see, with great tightness and pain in my stomach, I'm trying to show the ideology of the SRS. You don't need to worry about it. (President: Can't be directed, it's not right. You can't keep an eye on the subject and it really isn't business. When I talk about crime in some companies, you take me off notice. When the EU delivers the list, you break your legs asking to solve the problem. I beg your pardon, you appreciate me a little. You must value me much more than those of the EU. I'm an insider, I see inside what's going on. I don't rat on you in the EU, that's what others do. You know that. You're the only one who can rat on you from a pro-European block. When you turn the EU, I'm glad. I'm very glad when you turn them. Why? Because Serbia's enemy is the EU, as is the NATO Pact. Whoever gets the EU wet has my support. That's quite clear. There's no dispute about that. Now let's get to these other loans. This is about the flag. You know, there's only one good thing in the whole flag production. It's probably "Fiat" the natural ally of the flag, because he made the flag. Maybe there's some technology, some logic tech, etc. Everything else is wrong. And Tito had problems with the Italians when he was making the flag. Even then, they didn't meet their contracts properly. And Italy as a state has problems with the Fiat. Citizens of Italy are very often making a mess of whether Fiat is a private or state-owned company, as 70% of the subsidies from their budget go to Fiat. As for leadership with those names, Maksilion, etc., the one with the sweater, so I don't insult Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, read some Italian press and see what they say about the business leadership of the Fiat. It's not exactly on the side of turbo-leading, business people, but something a little souther down there. And in Italy it's south sad. Especially down to Sicily. But it's your co-production. You've got most of it, you've got into it. You were able to trick the Kragujevci. That's clear to them now. Of the four, five thousand employees, it fell to very little and took the risk. As you can see, I don't criticise you very much. In my opinion, it's much bigger to blame those who trusted you. I'm proud of not believing you. That's why I want to have this effect on those other citizens that they don't trust you at all. Because if they trust you, they get hurt. Who believed in 200,000 new jobs received 400,000 layoffs. Whoever believed in a thousand euros took the risk. Ours was to warn the citizens, to say how realistic it is, as far as possible, whether it's a fraud, whether it's a fraud. We did it very correctly. The one who believed us did not perish, the one who trusted you suffered. Let everyone learn a lesson. That's the correct thing to do. We are fully aware of the fact that in times of depression, poverty, social misery, sweet stories about Mrs. Kalanovic's visions, Mladje Dinkic, and especially Božina's visions, pass away. Those visions and his dreams are just dreams. It's just dreams. Some believe in these dreams, what to do, we can't force, the people are master, he decides everything, he decides whether he will be well, whether he will be ill, whether he will be able to manage, etc. You're jumping your popularity. You're getting a lot of popularity. It's amazing, every day people meet me and keep telling me how popular you are. As much as he's gonna jump, I don't know. But when there's going to be an election, think about it. Now, one of the principles of civilised society is that a contract must be respected. The second principle, a party that does not respect the contract, and the contract is a law for the parties to the contract, corresponds to the court. We have a situation here that someone voluntarily wants to be a minority partner, and that gives a lot more, that gives incomparably more. You come with a set of draft laws where the state of the Republic of Serbia needs to take over incomparably much more, in order to approve a partner to find some money, the money he had at the time of the contract, and now they're gone. You're asking us to agree. (President: Time. ) You will not get consent from the Serbian Radical Party because all you are doing is devastating for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56799	Mr. Vice President, you have your word. Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56800	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that there is no in this matter of dreams, as there is no friendship and sympathy in international relations, but of the interests of which perhaps a closeness between the people can be born. There are only interests in international finance and it is in Serbia that the world is fighting for its national interests. Today's proposals respond very well to the very strict conditions that we must set at this point in the development of our nation, for any additional borrowing. It is good that almost all parliamentary groups today have made it very good to know that the loan must only be taken if it opens up new perspectives in the country. We have in the past three years, in the case of the already mentioned Greeks, but also in the case of some major nations. The United States, for example, with the largest economy in the world, an example that it's very easy to lose control of public finances, if the nation is too in debt, if it's rights or trying to finance much more than what the real assets of that nation can provide. Therefore, these three financial arrangements must be very well analysed and I think that today's discussion has shown very well that all three proposals correspond to what our country's interests are, not because someone has a specific sympathy for the Fiat or any other company, not because someone has a special sympathy for the World Bank, or to justify any debt to the European Investment Bank, because we want to join the majority European Union. Let's start with what it's like to say a classic arrangement, which we already have a few years with the World Bank. It is great that last year this home, because not all nations have decided so, has voted on new elements in the Budgetary System Act that predict our budget deficit not to exceed 4% this year, 3.6% next year, and that it is subsequently reduced and reached 1% of gross domestic product in 2015. That's good because our demographics are a big challenge and we're not from those countries that can look at the increase in the created debt, thinking that demographic activity, that the growth of our population in itself will lead to the expansion of gross domestic products, but we need to think carefully about the space that will be necessary for pensions and many other needs of our nation. When we talk about the budget deficit, it is very good that for the third year in a row, the fiscal responsibility law is respected, i.e. Part of the Law on the budgetary system dealing with these rules and going towards reducing the deficits, but thus reducing the deficit, I remind you, Serbia is one of those countries that has the smallest deficit in Europe at this point, 4%, however, has to be financed. When we talk about it, then it's very good that we've provided 100 million dollars to cover so few deficits from the World Bank's funds, because at the age of 20, of those five years of starting and interest, which is currently 1.6%, and there's an answer to one of the questions, each of these arrangements has its own specific financial conditions, this is the cheapest possible way that Serbia can finance its own budget deficit today. I therefore appeal to you, honourable Members of the People, to vote this arrangement with the World Bank. The second element is an arrangement with the Fiat. What I'm trying to say right now is that "Fiat" isn't a party story. "Fiat" isn't even something that needs to be tied tight to one government. I just want to remind you that as many as eight Hungarian governments have worked to develop the arrangements they had with Suzuki. At first, that Suzuki investment was very small. Suzuki and other car manufacturers in their country have worked to make it big and Hungary suffer less in this crisis today. Of course Slovakia cannot be taken by itself as an example. We have to make a specific spray development, but when we look at the amount of foreign direct investment in any country, we see that only three or four sectors in which these investments go after they lead to significant exports of that country and these are the chemical industry, electronics, what we see in the domain of information technologies, that's the export of services, not so good and finally the automotive industry. The Fiat deal will provide directly 1.3 billion euros in our country's exports, with a net foreign exchange effect that will eventually exceed a billion euros. In addition, autocomponents who came, primarily because of the Fiat, will also produce for export and there is no better recommendation for Serbia, as was the case with Slovakia a few years ago, to attract another car manufacturer since the arrival of the Fiat. Eight years ago, with my colleagues from the then government, I struggled to attract Citroen and Pejo's investment. Contrary to expectations, we managed to fight to get our country into a tight circle, those considered for investment, but then we were informed that, unfortunately, those investments would go to Slovakia because Slovakia was sure to join the EU in 2003. That's the official explanation we got. That is why I must say that such an investment would not have been possible if Serbia had not made significant progress towards the EU and there is that logic between the European path, investment and job creation. Further steps in European integration will be steps in attracting additional investment in our country. Therefore, when we talk about the figures, today some 150m euros have been invested in a joint venture, 100m euros by the Fiat, 50m euros by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Yes, it is true, Serbia is building infrastructure around this big project, but this infrastructure will serve not only the Fiat but also all other investors in our country, not to say that it generally strengthens our country's competitiveness and puts us on the map of Europe. Let's see how many things are connected. I'll mention an anecdote coming from Bavaria. Three weeks ago, I had a chance to visit one of the most efficient car factories in the world. It's an audium factory in Ingostat, Bavaria. It's a factory where 98% of the metal work is absolutely automated, which has been ranked as the best factory in the world for two years in a row. In a meeting with that director of the world's best factory, he raised the question of the investment of the Fiat in our country. He said he noticed that the first car factory to be built after leaving the crisis was built in Serbia, that it was a good thing that we beat many other countries and many other cities, that we managed to face a crisis that had somewhat slowed down this project, that we knew well to choose a partner who, today, officially became the owner of 52% of Kraisler before the deadline, and that he noticed that this "Fiyat" was the opposite of what someone might think of some stereotypes of Italians or Germans, last year had a factory in the south of Naples that beat that factory in Iglstat and was chosen as the best factory in Europe in the area of the automotive industry. There was an asset to invite one of the most successful people in the automotive industry today in the world, to come and visit our factory in Kragujevac along with the "Fiita" and see that it will be calibrated at the level of the world's best factories. That's why I'm asking you all to vote for an arrangement with the Fiat, he's in the interest of our nation as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56801	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, and no one who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not also appeared, let me conclude a joint single search. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, to you and your associates. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set out on 27 June 2011, starting at 18.08 a.m. as Voting Day on all agenda points of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for our further work. As we move to a decision on the proposals of the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. agreements, points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will vote only in general on these draft laws. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the second programme loan for the development of public finances, in general. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 is for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to agenda two. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/A) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 is for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty (Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of capitalisation II/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 is for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Fiat Compact Guarantee Treaty cars Serbia/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 is for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to agenda five. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Fiat Compact Guarantee Treaty cars Serbia/D between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 is for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session ends at 6:15 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56802	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly Fifth extraordinary session on 27 June 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 18.15 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-27-0.u56803	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow us to move to the opening of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that we are 108, but I ask you to establish the quorum by putting cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that there are 126 of us, and there are conditions for continuing work. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 97(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Monday, therefore, and past the date set out in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 124 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. With a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the request of 124 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the next Dn e n i d 1 was appointed. Proposal for a Bill on Youth, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes, AD Belgrade, Societ General Serbia a.d., Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank a.d., Erste Bank a.d., Novi Sad, Commercial Bank a.d., Belgrade and Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d., Belgrade under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania towards the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on co-operation in the field of the fight against crime, which the Government has submitted; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in Culture, Higher Education, Scientific Research, Education, Professional Comprovement, Communication, Youth and Sports between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of education, culture and sports, which the Government has submitted; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code of Conduct, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly Service, which is the Administrative Board of the National Assembly; 13. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, submitted by 124 MPs; 14. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party; 15. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia; 16. The draft decision amending the Decision on the election of deputy members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. National MP Vuk Dinčić, pursuant to Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and (2). 170th and 190th. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to conduct a joint principle-based Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes, AD Belgrade, Societ General Serbia a.d., Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank a.d., Belgrade, Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad, Commercial Bank a.d., Belgrade and Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d., Belgrade, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania to the Republic of Serbia. 2. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on Co-operation in the field of crime, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Morocco, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Culture, Higher Education, Scientific Research, Education, Education, Communication, Youth and Sports between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of Education, Culture and Sports and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of the North-Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and the Code (C). 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda). 3. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly and a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. 4. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (ac. 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda). Does MP Vuk Dincic want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting this proposal to the vote and I am asking the MPs to press the corresponding key. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask professional services to prepare a consolidated text of the draft agenda, and we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
