ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55909	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record, we are 96, and in order to correctly determine the quorum, please place your cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 of us have been found to have working conditions. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55910	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, and above all, the citizens of Serbia, I have two questions I want to ask. One is the current Minister of Health, Mr Zoran Stankovic, and the other is police chief, or police minister, Mr Ivica Dacic. Namely, as you citizens and you know a short time ago, Minister Milosavljevic resigned, who was a member of the G17 Plus party and that a non-party figure was chosen, i.e. Mr. Stankovic, who pleaded, and when he spoke, that one of his main preoccupations would also be the fight against crime, as well as the detection and processing of health crime. I have information, and we know that there have been some investigations at the Ministry of Health, and I'd like to ask a question, first of all, what he was working on, or they were working on, investigative bodies, what they've been processing, and as far as it came, whether we're going to start, because we're witnesses, at least by the press, that there's a lot of criminal activities going on in health, we all know that. Then, I ask the Minister of Health – what happened and will the tender that was called for the reconstruction and construction of the Clinical Centre and the Tower at the Clinical Centre, because the Minister himself said that the tender was irregular, that the project that was done was bad and that there was a possibility, which would be a shame, that the Tower of the Clinical Centre would collapse in a smaller wind without talking about an earthquake? Therefore, who was responsible for such a project that was done and approved at the time when the minister was Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic? Secondly, on the Committee on Health, whose member, when the Minister of Health attended, on one of the issues of what happens to additional work, since we are aware that additional work is a source of crime and that this law is criminal, that it should be abolished, that additional work in the institution is a conflict of interest, because if health workers work in the state institution in the morning, and after noon in a private office, therefore, it is a conflict of interest that goes directly to the harm of patients and directly to the damage of state institutions, the health minister said, it exists in the record, that this additional work will be abolished, that this will be considered and will be abolished. A short time ago, he gave an interview with one of the daily papers saying that the supplemental work would not be lifted. That means he's already retarded from the fight against crime, so I'd like to know and ask the question - who put pressure on him, if he's a non-partisan person and why did he give up the suspension of additional work? I have another question I ask Ivica Dacic, which is, is, is former Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic available to the investigating authorities, given that a certain investigation is being conducted at the Ministry of Health? We have one of the information that, after the change of the minister and after the interest of the investigation bodies in the Ministry of Health, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic left Serbia, somewhere, at least, so it is said, in the far direction of South America, is it true and is he available to the investigative authorities or is he outside Serbia just to avoid responsibility, as far as working in the Ministry of Health itself, as well as what was very important, and that is, the procurement of three million vaccines for the pandemic that did not exist in that sense in which he thought it would exist? What about the 800,000 vaccines left after the population was vaccinated, paid for? What happened to those vaccines that were, I suppose, dumped, or at least they were said to be sold to someone, although they weren't sold to anyone, that's not said to the Health Committee? Who is responsible for the wrong assessment and for the lost large amount of money from the Ministry of Health Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55911	Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55912	Dear Presidency, I'm going to ask two questions. The first question will be addressed to the Ministry of Education. Last year, students of the Faculty of Applied Arts in Belgrade enrolled in college and paid scholarships as self-financed received a promise from the Ministry of Education that all those who receive "Bolonja" will get 60 points from the Faculty free tuition. For those students who had between 48 and 59, the city of Belgrade has committed to paying those students tuition. After that, a dozen students of the Faculty of Applied Arts who had 60 points were the best students, received a notice in June that they could not pass exams unless they paid a total scholarship of 200,000 dinars. There are many among these students who are poor, so I'm asking the Ministry of Education about this. I ask, are they familiar with this problem and what it will do, given that there is a clear protocol and promise both the Faculty and the Ministry that the best students will be paid tuition, and that they are thus practically encouraged to continue to achieve the best results? The second issue will be addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and the "Serb Railway" leadership. Namely, these days, this could have been heard in public, news came out that the Serbian Railways Management Board abolished rail passenger traffic in several relations, mainly in southern and eastern Serbia, and the most important relationship, which was opened in 1934, from Nis via Prokupje to Kursumli, i.e. Merdar, to the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija. Also, departures on the Nis-Književac-Zaječar route have been lifted, and traffic at Nis-Dimitrovgrad route has been reduced before, etc. I ask the question and the leadership of Railways and Minister Mrkonjic, what is the motive for this move? What are the reasons for the suspension of passenger traffic on these tracks? Yesterday, a meeting of representatives of the Serbian Railways Union was held in Prokuplje with representatives of local self-government and the leadership of the Railways was then given the answer that the furniture that was trafficked by these relations is old and that the Railways of Serbia do not have the means to repair these furnitures, and for these reasons passenger traffic is lifted on these relations. It is simply amazing that we have received such an answer, because we all know that the Republic of Serbia's budget subsidises Serbia's Railways with 16 billion dinars a year. How is it possible that out of 16 billion dinars per year from the budget, in which all citizens of this country pay taxes, there is no means to repair two furniture that traffic on the Nis-Kurzumli railway, or Nis-Zaječar? How is it possible that 10 million dinars cannot be singled out to repair these furniture, to maintain the traffic for Serbia's most poor, convincing part? What kind of message is being sent to these people living in Kursumlia, for example, or to the area of Kursumlia, and we know that this is an area on the administrative line and we know what the importance of Kursumli is? You have suspended their courts, you have abolished their barracks – they have been moved, the factories are not working, schools are being shut down, and rail traffic is being shut down, the cheapest one that has used not a small number of residents in the region, because the money for some luxury transport does not have. What kind of message is being sent to these people? If one, at a time, is lifted, a message is sent clearly that they should be moved from there. How much longer will this discriminatory attitude towards Serbia's poorest part, especially towards Southeast Serbia?- I'm sorry. Indeed, this is something incredible, and we really find it inadmissible for the state to behave like this through its organs. We subsidize JAT - he won't fly from Nis! We all pay the subscription, we watch the Belgrade chronicle, and we end up cutting off the rails for the poorest part of the country! [[Someone applauding]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55913	Thank you, Mr. Lapchev. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55914	Thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, at the moment when the world's world market copper price is the biggest in history news has also surfaced about the possible bankruptcy of the "Combinata Bor" and the unsuspecting denial of it. But Bor is too serious to be local, as well as the taxpayers of Serbia, the large loans owed, the guarantees for some we gave, which is why my questions are related to the work of the mining-topic base Bor. The state of Serbia has taken the obligation to manage and control the work of the company and it does so through the Management Board and the Company Assembly, in which the government is setting up its members and has a majority. A serious question arises whether these organs lead this company in the right direction and are they sufficiently controlled by the work of this company? It doesn't seem like it, by all accounts. How is it possible that "Combinat Bor" and despite the great losses in 2008 and 2009, as well as in 2010, the loss in 2008, was $45 million, in 2009, 80 million, but in addition, "Combinat" invests in the construction of a motel in Brestovočka Banja, reconstructing administrative buildings on the Mine, "Jama", participating in the construction of various facilities in the city of Bor, such as "Amphitheatre", beside the House of Culture and other objects, and some of them are the property of the municipality. In local media "Combinat Bor" in restructuring appears in the role of investors to edit rural homes of culture, road infrastructure on the territory of the municipality. That's all right if not all Serbian citizens pay for it! What confuses the citizens of Bora lies precisely in the fact that in 2010, this company did not even pay compensation for the use of mineral raw materials belonging to the local self-government of 50%, as much as the Republic. These are significant funds provided by the Bor Development Fund. Then we gave guarantees for the loan and for the construction of the new smelt, and those assets aren't being controlled. On the other hand, the obligation he has to local self-government doesn't pay off. The fact that new cars are being bought to trade union directors, and existing cars are being shared around the city by various companies, is somehow the usual behavior when at the head of the house someone from the party from which he was from yesterday or today. How is it possible that one or more workers are admitted without a public competition and a labour plan, so that workers in the administration are re-received, persons without adequate qualifications? They're wondering if I can give an answer for the government. Well, it's probably some obligations taken place when there were local elections in Bor. Worst of all, among those workers there are many who have taken the social programme to leave the "Combinata" and the state of Serbia, i.e. The taxpayers have already singled out the money for this, and someone is now making extra labour because of party obligations in previous elections, godfather's, relatives' ties, etc. How it is possible for various services, and especially for construction works on the mentioned facilities, not to call a public call. You'll probably say – when it's in restructuring it doesn't have to be done. Not everyone can participate, and these jobs are often entrusted to companies with seats outside the Bor municipality. Entrepreneurs who address and who are members of the LDP will stage a protest. They don't ask them to get jobs past the competition, they ask it to be a public call. If it were to be published and the public contract that Bor concluded with the Canadian firm "Lavalin" for the construction of the "new smelt" would be interesting to see if the next day had already been broken, given that the procedure that preceded the conclusion of this contract was far from the eyes of the public and without the appropriate selection procedure of the bidders, and remember, it was during the election campaign of the local elections in Boro. The "Combinat Bor" also employs large funds for its investment programme in mining and metallurgy, several hundred million dollars through credit, with the help of the state or for which guarantees are provided by the state, i.e. we, colleagues and colleagues. Has anyone seen valid documentation, prescribed by law, for the comprehensive development-investment programme "Rada-Topiar base Bor". If it isn't, and at least we didn't see it when you voted, which is, then, guarantees that your credits will be able to come back from the "Cob" without all of us returning it. Just ten seconds. If that's the case, isn't "Bor" on the ugly "Basena Kolubara" road? The Insider should come. So my question is, who controls the business of the mining and cannon base Bor? Is it the Republic of Serbia or someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55915	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been asking questions on several occasions concerning the financing of the SNS and their party list of Justice. And, two days ago, I asked a similar question and provided concrete information on the financing of that list. I have provided data relating only to funding by JP Telecom Serbia and to funding relating to the funds they received from the city of Belgrade. In this way, it is excellent to see that the project SNS is actually a project that has been living with the assistance of the regime since early 2008, because these payments show that they were only starting since they gave up the ideologies they represented for 18 years, that only then did the funding begin. I made a statement that it received almost a million and 700,000 dinars from the city of Belgrade "Justice" for the last three months of 2008, that it received 9 million and 859,000 for 2009 and 7 million for 2010 and a total of just under 19 million dinars. As for Telecom Serbia, they won for 2008 20. 257. 1,000, and for 2009 18.786,000, and for 2010 23 million dinars and for 2011 amounting to 14 million dinars, this is total, believe it or not, 95 million dinars for that so-called The opposition. (Au) However, here, as Mrs. Comic kept interrupting me, she stole one mistake, this time I apologize to them, I failed to add it all together, I made a mistake for some 27 million. They didn't get how I originally said 94 million and 705,000, but they got 121,712,322,00 dinars. I forgot one fact, which is that Justice had one great claim to Future Stanko Subotic Canet Frog, which Alexander Vukic met with in Paris' Rica. That claim was about 40 million, but it's very interesting that even though "Futura" paid nothing "Justice" that they did not change distributors and that they continued to co-operate with Stanko Subotic Canet Frog's company. The debt was bought by Telecom Serbia. The total amount on which the contract was concluded is 36 million dinars in two wars. So, the first war was paid at the end of 2009, some 18 million, and the second war was paid 25% or nine million in 2010. What's strange is that "Justice," as I've already said, is in a 507-day blockade for over 60 million dinars and that list, which is still coming out today. Everyone wonders how it is possible, so it is possible that in the meantime they founded the second company "Justice placement", owned by 60% of Ana Stefanovic, the wife of the senior SNS official, Nebojja Stefanovic, and it is, to make the matter more interesting, the director of Justice, who is blocked by 60 million dinars. The other owner, in order not to forget him, is Mr. Dusan Vuksanovic, some may be a familiar name, and for those who do not know it, I must say that this is the man who is a close associate of Stanko Sutotic Canet Zappac, the first indictee of tobacco smuggling in Serbia, who owned the company SC, from whom he was formed, along with "Borbin" and "Politika's" kiosks, "Futura". Otherwise, he was one of the directors of Future, so he was the director of "Borbe" at a time when Stanko Subotić had his capital in "Borby", so that after that shut-down, when Stanko Subotić picked up his pinks and fled the country, this Mr. Dusan Vuksanovic moved to work first at Justice, and then, as you can see, he founded this company with senior SNS officials. I ask the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, from the Office for Combating Organized Crime, from the Anti-Corruption Agency and all other relevant state bodies, but, above all, given that I have been asking this question for the third time, that I first asked this question in February, that it is 15 days, and that it is now a June month, and that I have not received any answers, I ask that you, on behalf of the National Assembly, and my MPs, direct one emergency to all those bodies that I have previously addressed and that we get any answer. Therefore, you can't protect these machinations and this kind of violation of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55917	You are right, and with your question, I will insist with the Service that the current National Assembly's emergency response to the MP, who has been asking the same question for the third time already. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55918	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and all citizens who watch this transmission, Mr Vice President, I will request one notice from you or anyone else, who was in that chair, and it is that the MPs, or the National Assembly, are not being respected, by some ministers, or notices and answers we are looking for, specifically me, have not come at all. More than 15 days ago, I asked Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic about diplomatic passports and excitement that occurred in public during the assignment of diplomatic passports to some athletes. It's about tennis players, of course, that no one is against, even proudly we say that they needed these people before they got it, but the question has been asked why some other athletes who also celebrated this country and made us proud, perhaps most of all the inhabitants of this country, sports and is the best ambassador of our country and our people, so why haven't some other athletes got these diplomatic passports? Why am I asking this question again? So this is a message to Mr. Vuk Jeremic that I will not give up on this issue, that he will have to learn to respect the National Assembly and the MPs, because the questions that have come from the foreign ministry so far have been signed by Stefanovic and the dynasty, Dad and Son, and never by the minister. I did not ask Borislav or Bork, nor his dad, but asked directly Minister Vuk Jeremic, and the reason is that he is president of the Association of Professional Players of Serbia, so there is little bitterness left that tennis players received diplomatic passports, not because they deserve, of course, more than that, but because Vuk Jeremic is in some sort of conflict of interest. So I, my question, last time, Mr. Novakovic, extended to the National Assembly, to me, as a MP and to all fellow Members of Parliament, to deliver to the "Legal" on the assignment of diplomatic passports. I call it that, I don't know what that document is called, I know all MPs have the right to diplomatic passports, I don't know who else has, probably diplomats, because that's what the name says. I want to remind all of you colleagues of the year 2001 when our country's foreign minister was Goran Svilanovic, that 10,000 diplomatic passports were being discussed. That means that many aunts, aunts, neighbors, bakers, drivers, I don't know who got those diplomatic passports. Even last time, I offered Mr. Jeremic my right not to use it, and I don't know on the basis of which rule I have it, as a national MP, on a diplomatic passport, to give in to a sportswoman, I'm not going to mention these names now so I don't get it wrong, to get popular on the basis of these sports results that our athletes and athletes have achieved. Therefore, I ask Mr. Jeremic to respond by what criteria, under which rule diplomatic passports are assigned, above all I think of people who, officially, will not say by format, by their workplace, are not diplomats. I'm not asking about ambassadors, embassy members, embassy employees, I'm asking about these others, by what criteria and by what rule do these people get these diplomatic passports? Furthermore, so as not to drive to Shabic, the Information Commissioner, Mr Jeremic, and I think the other fellow MPs have convinced myself that I am persistent enough to exorcise some documents, I am looking for a list of all people, on this day, who have diplomatic passports, people and women, and on what basis did they get them? On this occasion, as absurd as it is, I would like to point out, if it was the criteria of athletes who represented this country and made us proud, greatest athlete, if someone didn't know by accident, let them check, the greatest athlete from this space is called Dragan Kicanovic – I would like to know if he also got a diplomatic passport? So, Mr. Novakovic, I ask you to let me know what you will do to make Mr. Jeremic respect the National Assembly, to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? It might not be burning to give him a public notice about this, because Mrs. President Djukic Dejanovic, if you remember one minister, perhaps unfairly, from your party, sent a public notice from this pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55919	Thank you. I will only do what I do in the case of Mr. Sarovic's MP, so I will ask the Assembly to forward the address with your question as soon as possible. I'm also giving you one explanation that women are also human, so that you don't break the Rules of Procedure in that gender equality. Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, a group of students of the Faculty of Law in Rijeka, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following part of today's session, unfortunately very briefly, from the gallery of the Great Hall. [[Applause]] Present are Stefani Jardo, Monica Kusturin and Frano Barunčić, as well as students of the International University, the Department of Pancheva, such as Višnja Rankov and Igor Stojadinović. Good afternoon and welcome. Of course, you will be very happy to be seen in the follow-up session, which I will postpone after some more protocol obligations, such as the notice that the sittings are prevented today from being attended by the MPs: Dr Nikola Krpić, Đuro Perić and Milisav Petronijevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to representatives of Proposer Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice and Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zlatko Petrovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Justice and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department for Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. As you have just received the Government's report on the amendments received, for a more detailed and serious introduction to this opinion, I am setting a break by 11.30 p.m., when we will continue to work on the 1st item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law on financing political activities, in particular. Thank you for your cooperation and a nice atmosphere so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE FINANSIRANJ TO THE POLIC ACTIVITIES (specificities) Before we move to this point of the agenda, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that today we are guests of the House of National Assembly at the gallery to attend the part of our session and allow us to welcome them all these are: Višnja Pejić, Mirjana Bukara, Jelena Breković, Dušica Ilic, Ivana Štimac, Marija Šurdić, Sonja Simović, Mladen Mijailović, Nemanja Miladinović, Ivana Petrović, Aneta Petrović, Ivana Petrović, Ivana Ristić, Ivana Ristić, Nikolet Petrović, Nikola Petrović, Nikola Grbić, Dušan Pajković, Branko Šević, Aleksandra Savić, Aleksandra Savić, Aleksandra Savić, Petara Savić, Ivana Šović, Ivanažilić, Ivana Žović, Ivana Žović and Žović. Let's give it up for our dear guests. You have received, honourable MPs, the bill on which amendments and amendments have been submitted together: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borjana Miladović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz; together Nenadža Čalić, Bojan Kos, Bojan Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovan Radovan Radović, Gordana Čomić, Zorana Čalić, Zoran Krasić and Dragan Krasić, Nežan Krasić, Nežarić, Neštović, Jaljarić and Miršaktić. [[Applause]] You have received the government's opinion, as well as a report by the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't know if you, Madam President, have accidentally or intentionally, but I see in this reminder for today's session that you read Mr Bozidar Delic within the framework of the MPs who betrayed Vojislav Seselj and the SRS. I hope you know the fact that Bozidar Delic is a member of the SRS Parliamentary Group and is not a traitor, so please correct that mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55922	Your suggestion will be respected, although I do not share MPs like you. Don't throw it away, you'll get a warning. Don't throw it away, the suggestion will be appreciated. It's not easy for us at this table to share our former and present radicals with each other. That's what you do. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55923	Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, I must inform you, as personal address is possible only to you, and not to others, you see, during the principle debate, we listened to everything and everything, so that in 2003 the law was first passed that regulates the financing of political parties. And you remember, when you were vice president of the SPS, that since 1989, 1990, 1991, etc., there was the Law on the financing of political parties, though, it was only a little controversial when you were stealing business space, you know the Socialist Union, so the Union of Youth, so "Lutra" when it was taken, remember etc., but there was a law. That's the first thing I want to potential. The second thing I want to potential, and I don't want to waste my time, is – I don't understand the government's opinion that rejects my amendment at all. I'm sure Milan Markovic didn't write this, because this has nothing to do with the amendment. They appeal to the Constitutional Court's decision, which has nothing to do with the name of the law or anything. Why do we ask that this law in its name has that it is the law on the financing of political parties? Because he basically regulates it. You here in a kind of artistic way, Colloquially, as political entities, call everything that participates in the elections. Well, I know it's true, but the coalition is a gathering of political parties, it's essentially a political party. And when a group of citizens participate in the elections, it participates only because of the elections and it is not some political entity that has a relatively permanent character. In order for the subject to have a permanent character in politics, he would have to be registered as a political party. Citizens' groups participate in the election as proposing only to respect the electoral right, so that the transmission for citizens is not only a political party, but also free-minded intellectuals or individuals who would like to check their popularity in the local environment or beyond, to participate in the exercise of power to take the money. They don't have ideologies. They have ideologies to take money. You can't put a group of citizens in the same basket who, in some ways, are very problematic, provide a majority in some congregation so they'll be, say, "For my street", "For my city", take some doctor or some professor who's known, cheat citizens, make places there on boards, fine, no ideology and no regular work, no regular activities. You see, when one such bill says "Resistance", headed by Cedomir Cupic, the secretary of the ministry, some Free Home, is not here this "primary" Milivojevic, is not the other "model" Konstantinovic, none of them, these "resists" who failed in the elections in 2003, they make one law that should fit NGOs who, at some point, would be disabling political opponents and tricking citizens. There is no reason why under the name of this law there would be no potential for funding of political parties. And, as you can see, this explanation, it doesn't even communicate with the mental state, well, even when the meetings of the government are on the phone, and it's a big problem if you don't pay phone bills.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55924	A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I think it would be a good idea for the representatives of the ruling coalition to warn or inform that the debate on this law has begun in particular and I think it is a shame that the minority of any member of the ruling coalition is not interested in any contribution to this debate here. As for the amendments I submitted to Article 1 I asked for the words "political activity" to be deleted from this article. Namely, the first member of the law says: "This law regulates sources and ways of funding, records and control of the financing of political activities of political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens. "It is completely wrong to tie political activities only to parties, either individually, either in coalitions or, possibly, for groups of citizens participating in the elections, because it is clear that each citizen, every single individual, can take certain political action on a daily basis, either by expressing their position, either by going to elections, which will not go to elections, which will support something, may give a signature for some kind of initiative, for a bill or in any other way. That's the first reason we need to erase the words "political activity". And the second reason is that in this way you define anything done in a party as political activity. It is totally undeniable that there is one round of affairs being done in political parties, which cannot possibly be political activity. So you're funding political parties, and the political parties after that money they get in the name of funding spend as they want. The political party can, for example, rent some sort of space cleaning agency that it rents, and you would then practically and you would define that cleaning room, I gave the most banal example, as political activity. There are simply jobs, which are administrative, which have absolutely nothing to do with politics, and you in this way anything that is funded by the political party, even if it was sandwiches, afternoon coffee for officials, which is also possible to finance in this way, you define it as political activity. It's something that has absolutely no basis in life or in common sense. A team before, I am surprised by the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which refused to accept this amendment of mine. The explanation is as if they didn't even read the amendment itself. They say, "It is not accepted because it is contrary to the concept of the proposed text of the law." What's the opposite of that? Is cleaning, washing flooring political activity in the party? I don't think so. You claim to be. And secondly, he says, "The subject of the law has been laid wider than the applicable law, since it regulates the issue of funding the regular work of political parties, so coalitions and groups of citizens." Well, that part I haven't touched, that remains to be financed by political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens. I'm just saying that these are not all political activities and not all political activities are financed, but the work of a political party which includes a number of activities which, in their nature, cannot possibly be political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55926	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55927	As far as the bill makes this definition of political activity only connects to political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens, another much wider issue is being raised here. Of the ancient Greeks, the definition of human beings is that it deals with politics and that almost everything it does has to do has something to do with politics, and only those who think about being healthy, fed, and possibly looking nice are treated in a political sense as 'idiots'. That definition applies today. In your profession it's already somewhat different defined, but it's similar. Then the question arises – what is actually political activity? It's all political activity, and the union has political activities, and NGOs have political activities, and secret organizations have political activities, and spies have political activities. You simply used these two words inappropriately. And Mr. Nemanja Sarovic explained to you that in the framework of regular work there is also the financing of cleaning and utility, electricity, telephone. So, are these political activities? No, they're not. And why was there a need for you to enter a wide area, trying to define something, to give it a rope meaning, and you essentially leave unregulated everything in relation to the association of citizens, and a group of citizens is a form of the association of citizens, except that it registers in a different way, through a contract certified in court, unlike an association registered with the Agency for Business Registers, so it has some of its founding acts and some of its own internal structure? You completely unnecessarily entered the area to define something that is not the matter of this law. And if we're talking about political activity, then it's more about the Law on political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55928	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55929	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr Minister, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the term "political activity" is a very appropriate term for all those activities carried out in Serbia, and when individuals and groups want to participate in Serbia's political life, but unfortunately because of their intention to participate in the elections, it manifests itself in a way that various ambitious individuals have in fact intention, not to participate in Serbia's political life, but because they intend to materialise their desires, intentions. We have had practice since 1990, so we say that many people participated in Serbia's elections without imposing the quality of political programmes on voters, not to solve problems, but only, and exclusively, to get the money that is intended for people who participate in these activities that are of an electoral nature. So, "political activities" is a good term, because people who want to appear in the elections together with someone, whether the word from the SRS, DS, the SPS or any other party, have the same treatment as we do, because something in the letter of the law would apply to me as a member of the political party, and it wouldn't apply to someone who wants to participate in those elections under some other name, not under the name of a political party. So, what would someone in their activities try to participate in the elections, in fact, to be involved in repairing the material position of him and his family? And I can now read to you how many lists, in our immediate past, we had composed exclusively of members of a family or family. They took money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, you got the opportunity to participate in a political game and you're waiting again for some new opportunity to show up. Or maybe you want me to read you the names of the list in the election in some countries around here? You will see very interesting names and names, you will see very interesting people, some of whom participate in Serbia's political life. Therefore, I believe that this is an adequate term, and I believe that this amendment should not be accepted and I believe that the law, at least in this segment, is very clear, precise, accurate and that it will also improve the political life of this country and allow equal participation of all actors in Serbia's political life in one equal, normal, civilised and European way. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55930	Replica. Mr Krasic and Sarovic, define who I will give the word to – Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55931	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, well, the party is mentioned, although we need to clarify some things. This explanation does not correspond to the amendment text. This has nothing to do with the amendment, but let me get this straight. Who used those rabbits to plant them during the election campaign? Here's a concrete example. You know it was a condition of 10,000 citizens' signatures, that someone would be a candidate in the presidential elections, and then we have this candidate, who, when the elections were over, won 8,900 votes. So, not even those who approved the signatures to vote for his candidacy voted. Let's remind ourselves. You know that general, Nebojsa Pavkovic, you know that Muju thief from Subotica, you know in the first Milanovic presidential election from Nis, Secerovski is also a member of the DS. I don't mind, but I must say, I support this discussion, someone misunderstood me, so that's the story of a group of citizens why they're running. The political party will never do so because of these interests. She always does that with ideology. I may not like the ideology of a political party, but the legal person has his subjectivity and pushes some political programme, and here is the story of groups of citizens. And that's why it's an inappropriate term - political activity, in terms of this law. It's just that this term is not the place in this law. You know that rarely when I support Mr Milivojevic, but what he said is the biggest contribution to changing the name of the law, to make this a law on the financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55932	It's okay that you're in agreement. Mr. Srdjan, you're just being supportive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55933	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Minister, if you are still here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the government and the opposition are understood. It is good that the authorities and the opposition have identical views on European laws which are an obstacle on the European pathway and the path of Serbia's EU accession. However, it is bad that the political party participates in the elections and that only after Boris Tadic beats them in the elections we learn that they have run for a much worse candidate than Nikola Sekerovski, because only after we've defeated them have they learned that some candidates, I will read only reminders for, from this famous institution called the Library, says, like this, this is the moment before the elections: "Now, when the sun of Serbia is free, when the Sun of Šumadija enters Andric's Venac, when Serbia shines on the sun of freedom", in character and part, I won't name who, but everyone knows, "now, when the most honest, the most honorable Serbian son from the heart of Šumadija, from Kragujevac, comes to Andric's Venac," and then is said when it is lost in the elections: 'You are, sir, English spy! You, sir, are an American servant! You, sir, are the worst of Serbian genders! "We were able to find out that Boris Tadic did not beat them? Now I ask them -- when you lied to us, when you were telling the truth, to quote you, alone, did you speak in an election campaign like this about your candidate or did you lie to us after the election? But the fact is that not everyone is running as the best, as political parties, and here we have practice where we see it's true, we see a political party that didn't run for the best, but the worst, and she didn't know it was the worst until they lost. That is why it is good that this law is called the law on funding political activity, because all political parties do not have the best candidates. Some have... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The kind of candidates we only learn about when we lose the election and get up and give us a hand for beating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55934	National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55935	Mr. Millyvoy, obviously I have some things I need to explain to you. We did not lie to the citizens of Serbia in 2008 or lie to them now. Yes, Tomislav Nikolic was both honorable and honest, but then something changed, and then he started hanging out with Boris Tadic, so overnight, he pro-Europeanly transformed, and it was faster, in a shorter time than it needed to acidify the cabbage, and then he became thanks to you, hanging out with you and with your friends from Europe who took away KIM, who are now. So you can't shame us now because we stood out Tomislav Nikolic as our candidate. In the meantime, he had some kind of pro-European transformation, so like Bogoljub Karic, he went and took off those young people, so he graduated from college, as far as we can hear, in the sixth decade of his life, and became your partner in European integration. That's what the point is. One more thing. You initially answered and commented on the amendment that I submitted. What you said had absolutely nothing to do with the amendment. You were talking about how some individuals were running to get the money they got in the election campaign and you prepared that speech, and I get the impression that you only wanted to say something smart while these kids, these students were at the gallery. Well, since at that point we in the SRS had amendments, you felt a little neglected, so you decided to read that pre-prepared speech, which had nothing to do with it. So, if you wanted to say something smart, then you missed, Mr. Milivoevich. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55936	Mrs. Tabakovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55937	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, the dignity of the Assembly. However, it seems somewhat unusual for me to do so now that Mrs Dejanovic has come out, but I ask you for the future course of the session. In terms of what political activities are, whether it includes the election of the President of the Republic, the control of the costs of the campaign, as a group of citizens, political parties or coalitions, it is indeed inappropriate, all the time, to lead here some barbaric fire, and across the back of a parliamentary group. I ask you to avoid, in future session management, the dignity of the Assembly, which is that, over this bridge here, which wants to improve the legal project, is being fought by some kind of mutual war, by those who don't normally cooperate so badly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55938	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's been a little debate, so as it bursts, that's how I'm gonna finish it. I think the replicas have been spoken and discussed with the topic that you discussed, so we're going to give the other applicants a chance. Based on the replica, no one will ever get the word again. Thank you. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55939	Mr. Novakovic, a member of 107 was injured, the dignity of the National Assembly, for a simple reason, and you were obliged as chairman to act. You attended the previous session, attended the debate on the law in principle. There was no barrage fire here, there was no war, and the SRS wasn't at war with anyone, and it wasn't using any barrage fire. The only one with whom SNS, Mrs Tabakovic, Tomislav Nikolic and others are at war with facts. They are in pain, and they are now asking you to stop the MPs in the debate and to stop us from exhibiting and presenting the facts about how they finance their political party, in which way they have eaten more than 60 million dinars of individual businesses in Serbia, how they run the Voždovac municipality, how they violate the Public Procurement Act and everything else. So it's a completely legitimate topic and it's perfectly legitimate to express everything that we've brought up so far. The fact that they've experienced the truth finally starts about them coming out of sight and not being comfortable with it, so, let's face it, that's their problem. If they have something to say, they have a business opportunity, and they're exactly the group that's impossible to define. They're talking about some kind of protection, they're talking about political parties, a group of citizens, and I don't know what the coalition is about. They were neither a political party, nor a coalition, nor a group of citizens, and are sitting in this assembly. That's the question they need to answer. This law is passed because of them, to allow them to campaign tomorrow, because under this non-existent law they can collect about 13 million dinars in a year and that, to excuse me, is not enough... [[- The microphone's off. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55940	Thank you. I seriously warn you of two things, so that you do not have to ask again for a copy of the stenograms, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at least until now, the laws have been passed according to a specific procedure and in the best intentions to improve the lives of Serbian citizens and to meet certain civilizational legislative achievements, and not to the insistence of individuals or to the protection of individual groups, well, they were parliamentary groups or parties. On the other hand, by referring to Rule 107, which has already been pointed out here once, it is another right that you abuse which the Rules of Procedure allows us to do. Third, none of your only argument has pointed to what I've hurt the Rules of Procedure at this point. So please don't do that in the future. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55941	Mr. Novakovic, you know that I rarely call for a violation of some of the regulations of the Rules of Procedure, but because of some of the things you have just said, I have to formally appeal to Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and to draw attention to you - you have no right to define what I am going to think, how to think, and what I am going to say. If you think you can influence how I'm going to think about some bill, I'm sorry, please, you missed the institution. You're a speaker here who directs the debate, takes care of the order of the registered speakers and allows this debate to be fundamentally conducted, but that you influence it and that you're giving a valuable court of my opinion on some bill, why it is passed, as it is done, to regulate someone's interests, that's my autonomous right. If you do not believe me, read Amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of the People's Messengers, where you have made of every messenger a deity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55942	There's no damage to article 27. In conducting the session of the Assembly, I take care of the interests of all the MPs and the reputation of this institution. I have no idea what it is like to influence, especially not yours, an opinion, which, by the way, I don't know what it's like except for what you're expressing in a very correct and good way, but not by pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that it doesn't have. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Sarovic, are you not satisfied with my explanation to you or do you want to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure again? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: I want to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55943	Mr. Novakovic, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure again. Article 103 has been injured, which says: "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, immediately after the injury has been done. "In my opinion, you did an injury, right after that I answered the word to point out and say that, in my opinion, the injured article 107, explained very seriously in which way. Your reaction was, first of all, to say that it cannot be indicated, that is the second position of this member, which says: "The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. "I did not point to the injury already indicated, Mrs Tabakovic pointed to your injury that you allowed us to speak, and I pointed to the injury that you did not warn her when she made the lie, because the truth was that there was a barrage fire here and there was war here. So that's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. And the next way you've hurt me is by threatening me, that if I continue to use the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I'll be sanctioned by warning again, so I'm going to have to ask for a stenogram again, as I did the last time you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you punished me, and that's the punishment I paid. You can try to scare me. If necessary, I'll pay the next one, but know, sir, that this debate is looking at all of Serbia, this is public. So don't try to scare me, don't threaten the MPs. I used the rights you gave me to a restrictive Rules of Procedure like this. You've traded it three or four times in these 10 years since DOS was in different forms of power. If this is too much of a right, go ahead and change it again, but don't threaten to apply sanctions when we absolutely act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55944	Of course there's no breach of Article 103. Neither have I threatened anyone nor have I thought of it, nor have I been able to do it at all, but I can read the Rules of Procedure very well, and when I notice that the Rules of Procedure is being misused, it is my right, my duty, on the basis of attitude 7, that I am not following a provision or, in another obvious way, abuse of rights, I am giving a measure. I'm not saying it, but I'm warning you. It's not a threat, it's one request that we all work together and respect, whether it's restrictive or not, we can talk about it, but it's certainly a Rules of Procedure that's in effect. Are you satisfied with my explanation, Mr. Sarovic? (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I did not. ) The assembly will declare in the voting day whether I have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, according to the announcement of Mr Sarovic's MP. The breach of the Rules of Procedure indicates the People's Parliament of Ms. Verice Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55945	Mr. Novakovic, you have violated Article 27 most harshly. Rules of Procedure. Allow me, although the mentioned article is 27, to explain to you perhaps 33 times, but in another context and let me explain how you violated that article 27. With your comment after your speech, you said that you were warning him, well, at least he asked for a stenogram again. Does that mean the MP can't ask for a stenogram? You've even said that very angryly. Does this mean that the MP must not ask for a stenogram to see if what he said is correct? On the other hand, we have repeatedly asked you, and especially Mrs. Komic, now specifically you in this context, what does that mean? There is no warning measure in the Rules of Procedure. That's something you've invented and what you're using, you can take away the word, you can throw out a certain amount of time from parliament if you think the MP doesn't speak the way you like. You've done this to Serbian radicals regularly, you're still doing it. We're absolutely ready for whatever you're ready for. We always warn you to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You never do that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sometimes you're in the mood in one way or another, and that mood of the chairman, in fact, represents the Rules of Procedure, which is in your particular case... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55946	I thank you for trying to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the warning, you're right. The Rules of Procedure don't know that. So far it has been a good practice, a way of communication and barbecue, or diversity, or a little stronger discussion in an attempt by the chairman to focus etc., and to affect the atmosphere, it was something that was a tool that made sense. In that case, I'll accept that, using an institute that doesn't exist, which is a warning, maybe I've overcome my jurisdiction, but I haven't violated the Rules of Procedure, because well-meaning and legitimacy in acting is something that certainly esculates me there. But from now on, here I accept fully and the chairman will strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 103, but I am not sure that we are on a good path to creating good practice and atmosphere in this home. Are you satisfied with this explanation or not? (The People's Messenger of the Witch of Radeta from the place: No, I'm not satisfied. ) The Assembly will declare in the voting day whether I have violated the Rules of Procedure on the apparition of the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Mr. Alexander Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so you, Mr. Novakovic, have, with your own explanation, injured Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which it states nicely: ''This Rules of Procedure shall govern the organization and work of the National Assembly and the way in which the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament are exercised, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly. ''You have just announced that you have so far respected some kind of, as you say, 'good practice' rather than the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and that in the future, you will follow only the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, that's a violation, a moment quote, Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What does good practice mean when you apply it, when you don't apply it? Basically, in practice, what you said means that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, arbitrarily according to opportunities and depending on whether it suits you or doesn't suit you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it's not your invention, that term "good practice" in parliament. This is the invention of the Chair of the Administrative Committee, who said more than a year ago, that there was no need to amend the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments, because he suspended Article 102(2) by the practice of the Administrative Committee. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is said in Article 102 that the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party, but, behold, it is the practice of the Administrative Committee that the writing submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, which is actually applied to Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, due to this practice, does not respect. Now I ask you, in what civilised and democratic state is the practice that is contrary to the applicable regulations, in this case the Constitution, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, more important than those rules themselves? None, except in the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55948	I do not see any breach of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure in my conduct, with the same factual legal dimension that I have given in previous explanations, so since your colleagues were not satisfied with that explanation either, I suppose it is not enough for you, and the Assembly will, of course, declare in the day of voting whether I have injured Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, by your command, from today's session. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55949	Ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of our state, including this parliament, is that by ruling Tadic's regime, it no longer hides that laws are not passed in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and are not brought under the circumstances in force in the territory of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, according to the strict order of the European Union, that is, some European Commission, the Venice Commission, which is what you are pushing, you like to brag, this law, as you have called it, on financing political activities and you don't care about the objections brought to you by Serbian Radical Party MPs, that this must be a law on the financing of political parties, not political activities. But, of course, you always use such dictated laws to abuse them, so, Krasic mentioned this, it will be possible to fund NGOs under a political activity firm, etc. We intend to make this law as polite as possible, to submit a large number of amendments, and what we have intervened through this amendment, it is that we have proposed that the coalition and the group of citizens may have political entity status only in terms of financing the costs of the election campaign. It's the only real thing. That's the only way. We explained that the subject matter of this law is to finance the costs of regular work and election campaigns of political parties. But as both coalitions and groups of citizens appear in the elections in order to achieve equal conditions and equality with this law, it is necessary to specify that the status of political entity, coalitions or groups of citizens only have in the period of election campaigns, because the coalition is not a party. Before and after the election, these parties that are part of the coalition function each in their own way. A group of citizens does not exist as registered before or after the election, but only during the election campaign. Or, if you are not going to finance the Natasa Kandic and the Dove Association with this law, without the intention of insulting the pigeons for comparing them with Natasa Kandic, it is not. So it's obvious that you, or you don't know what you're doing, or you're consciously doing the wrong thing. Then you say - you cannot accept this amendment, because the legal status of the coalition and the group of citizens is governed by election laws. What does this have to do with this law and the financing of political parties? Don't talk about this law about how it's going to go to elections. This is regulated by the Law on the Selection of Members of the People and, of course, it is not disputed. It is interesting that, since we have intervened here from the very title of the law, as you have said on the amendment of your colleagues, that in practice it is not part of the desired results and was also the subject of an assessment of constitutionality, you are talking about the existing and current Law on the financing of political parties. We have been telling you all along, yes, it is. He didn't give the results of an existing law, neither will he give the one that will take effect in a few days. But not because there's a problem with the law, but because there's a problem with the law enforcement. Neither the existing Law, ladies and gentlemen, has allowed the political party of Vukic and Nikolic to be financed in a way that is unknown to anyone in the state of Serbia and is not available to the public. Of course, it is a public secret how they finance themselves, but this law, as well as the existing law, will not make it impossible, say, for Dragica Nikolic to finance her party with 300,000 dinars. But this law does not answer the question – where did it come from? How can someone who doesn't earn that much money to fund their party? He said the other day on a show -- it's not her money, we had to give it away, because the law doesn't allow us to write it differently. And on the question of how the law breaks it, he says - no, he does not break the law. Of course, it violates the law and not only on the financing of political parties, but also the Criminal Law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55950	Thank you. A group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55951	Mr. Novakovic, I would say that, because of the justified absence, I was not there to explain, our dispute is essential even when it comes to changing the terms that we stated in Article 1 and then in Article 2 and we tried to specify. So, I fully agree with the promoter that this should be called a law on funding political activities, because it involves all stakeholders in the electoral process and in the regular work. I have remarks that we have made through the amendments that the choice, for example, for the President of the Republic here is indicated only in the part of the cost control but that there are no precise ways to collect, distribute funds, etc., and we know that there are significant means. For example, in the last presidential election, a winning candidate who won the title and that responsibility for only 56,000 votes, received fourm euros from the campaign itself as a winner in the election. We haven't done it precisely enough through this law, but we haven't even tried to cover everything with it. But what we have to cover is that you can't, starting from Article 1, say that this law speaks of sources of funding, records, control, etc., because the term "sources" is really a narrow term of what we define as means funding. Funding means include sources as well as recipients, ways, control and everything else. That is why, in Article 2 and the very title and meaning of the term, we have tried to agree on what we are actually talking about as political parties that want to regulate this area. Therefore, to precisely define terms, so are "political entities", as we have also indicated in Article 1, the political party, and coalitions, and groups of citizens, but not coalitions as you have written in accordance with your own contract and certified under the law governing over the signature. Well, we're about to pass a serious law, and I'm really surprised you haven't adopted a single amendment since 39. Obviously, you don't want to improve neither the practice nor the law, because we said that the coalition is governed by a contract under the law governing elections, but also by this law. So to that authority that you're proposing, I speak as the ruling majority, we've provided for the Anti-Corruption Agency to leave it with a constitutionally defined responsibility to make it closer to the conditions that this contract should look like. Therefore, we do not dispute your jurisdiction to settle this, but the coalition must have not only its own contract that produces the fact of internal relations, but the coalition must have a contract governed by this law so that these coalition relations are known to the public and respond to the demand for transparency, but also that coalitions and groups of citizens have equal responsibility with political parties, not just equal rights. So, we are not fighting for the lesser or greater rights of someone, but for putting into equal equal rights and coalitions, and groups of citizens, and in the electoral process, and in the financing of regular work, and this Article 2 is very important and essential because we are erasing the term "election guarantee" that, I repeat, restricts political competition, not allowing smaller parties to participate in the political game. In addition, this institute is to the extent that it is rogobatan, not elaborated in terms of jurisdiction, who receives the guarantee, who gives the confirmation, who cancels and when proclaims the list, that we really believe and we felt it necessary for this amendment to be adopted. I am convinced that Mr. Milan Markovic, as a proposing representative, is indeed in a position for some of these amendments to hear and that the arguments that we ordinarily present are something more convincing than those we have given you in writing, which apparently was not in the will. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55952	Thank you. I made a lapus on this amendment that we were talking about -- a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group, Serbia, submitted. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is a really clean failure. Mr Krasic has shown you very convincingly that, above all, the wrong name of this bill is because the essence is not to finance political activities, as you say, political entities, but to finance political parties. The SRS, in its amendments to this draft law, shall, above all, come from Article 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 5 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines the role of political parties in the constitutional and political system of the Republic of Serbia. So political parties, not coalitions, not groups of citizens, but political parties. First of all, this law should define the financing of political parties as organisations that, under the Constitution, under Article 5. The constitution, articulates the political will of the citizens. And without political parties, there is no democratic political system in the Republic of Serbia. You wanted to avoid that fact and that norm from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in some way. And you devalued it when you changed the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, because you wanted to present to the citizens of Serbia that MPs in the National Assembly came about the way the deities appeared in ancient tragedies, "deus ex machina", there are no political parties. I am here, as I have come to the National Assembly does not matter, it is important that I am a National MP. Whether I was run by a political party, whether I have an obligation to my political party, whether I have a moral obligation to represent in parliament the same policy that got citizens' trust in the elections and which I received as a candidate of the political party, you pushed it aside and said – they have no political parties to interfere with the work of the MPs, the MP is free, he does not account for anyone, he is here, as he came to the National Assembly does not matter. About the same matrix, thoughtless, ideological, political, is going through the bill on, as you say, funding political activities. Well, then you say, you're very different from the coalition in terms of political parties. I'm sorry, anyone who is fundamentally written knows that the coalition is nothing more than an alliance of political parties. The coalition does not have its own, some legal and political subjectivity, outside the subjectivity of the parties that make up it. As for the group of citizens, I have to say that the bill is legal, here, Mr. Novakovic, now I'm going to try to prove it to you, bad. In a purely crafty sense. Article 2 says this: "a group of citizens" is a form of voter association for joint participation in the elections, which regulate their relations with a contract, certified in accordance with a law governing the certification of signatures. '"Now you, Mr. Novakovic, as a kind of lawyer, know that it's not the same type of contract certification and signature certification. When you verify the contract, then whoever performs the overture gets into the contract content, he reads the contract and checks it out before he seals that the contract has been approved, that the contract contained is in conformity with the law. When the signature is confirmed, the person who does the overture is just checking that the signature on the document, in this case the contract, comes from the person who gave the corresponding ID, so it compares whether it's the same person who handed over the ID as proof of identity. That's two completely different things. Now I ask you purely legally, not entering some political dubious, in which case will it be considered a group of citizens: when the content of the contract of these voters is certified, or only when the signatures are certified, because in the same sentence you use two completely different concepts? You say, the contract is confirmed, and then according to the law that the signing of the contract is carried out. It's like a life support contract. The judge must read the life support contract before the contract is certified, to establish that the contract is contained in such a way that it can be verified, that the contract is in conformity with, above all, the Inheritance Act, the Family Law and other applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia. That's how sloppy and illiterate you have approached this, otherwise, very important business. What is the essence of our objection? You have the intensity of this law, I guess you should actually have the intensities to finance political parties, not political activities, because the political party is also performing some activities that are not political. When a political party pays a bill for spent electricity or when it changes windows on its buildings, is it policy-making? It's not. Is this financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources foreseen by law? It's funded. So you don't finance political activity, you finance a political party that benefits the funds for both political and non-political purposes. It is completely unclear, to us from the SRS, how you can be equally equal and equally important to attach to political parties and groups of citizens. Citizens' groups no longer have any kind of political programme. They don't have any ideologies. Citizens' groups appear ahead of the election. They are formed by a number of voters. Their only interest is to participate in the elections and to achieve the best possible result in these elections. Some programming cohesion within a group of citizens does not exist. It is extremely wrong to place political parties in the same rank and in the same basket with groups of citizens. Therefore, the essence of our amendments and what Mr Krasic told you, I just want to repeat it, so this law had to be called the law on the financing of political parties. You finance the overall work of political parties, and the purely political and non-political ones, because even without that non-political one party could not function. However, you now want to define the self-financing of political activities by this law. What, now that the party wants to paint their rooms, it can't, because it's not political activity. I have to set up a parking lot outside the party headquarters, I can't, it's not political activity. From what source is this financed? It's a fundamental conceptal weakness of this bill, and I'm not saying that you have purely nomotetic failures, purely craftsmanship. You don't have to be some kind of lawyer, so to see that you have a whole series of wrong terms here, inconsistencies in the use of certain terms, that you're scratching the concepts, etc., and that, in order for the tragedy to be greater, at the very beginning of the bill, here, Article 2. The meaning of terms, instead of defining terms, you make a mess. Here, but in Article 2, we now do not know what a group of citizens is, what a coalition is, you say, "the form of the association of political entities", and you say "political entities are parties, coalitions and groups of citizens", and then you say "the coalition is the form of association of political entities". I have not heard that there is a coalition of groups of citizens, that one group of citizens is in a coalition with five other such groups of citizens. I heard that political parties in the coalition are "for the sake of joint participation in the elections, which regulate their relations by contract, certified in accordance with the law governing the certification of signatures. "Here's a practical problem. The coalition comes to the competent authority to verify the signatures, the one who performs the overu, he'll ask them, excuse me, gentlemen, if I should just verify your signatures now, to determine your identity, or if I have the right to read the contract to form that coalition of yours. For example, the contract says that you are engaged, among other things, in some action that is contrary to the Constitution. Is there a right by the competent authority to reject such a single coalition contract or coalition agreement? You didn't solve it with this bill. You wanted to pass a law on the way back to your friends from the EU, who gave you a hard slap yesterday and told you, free of handing over Ratko Mladic, there is no ratification of the SAA in the Dutch parliament. Come on, you're humiliating yourself, you're humiliating the state of Serbia. Now, there, some Dutch Parliamentarian is giving you lessons, so he says, well, it's not enough that Ratko Mladic, in an extremely humiliating way, is not enough to wait for Serž Brammertz's report, but rather, we are asking for a written statement from the Dutch Foreign Ministry whether he is satisfied with the report by Serge Brammertz. Excuse me, is there a limit to humiliating the state of Serbia? In your perspective, there's obviously no. You do not pass this law to regulate the political system in the Republic of Serbia. You have already greatly damaged him by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and now you continue with this phantom law on financing political activities, where it is no longer known, or what is a political party, or what is a coalition, or what is a group of citizens. What is clearly defined by the Constitution and what should be brought closer to this bill, you are now throwing everything on your head, mixing terms, mixing terms. Instead of passing a law on the financing of political parties in the National Assembly and definitely removing the living sand, when it comes to the Serbian political scene, as regards the murky ways in which individual political parties are financed, you instead of clearing up, you will further cloud Serbia's political scene. And we can only assume what the next election campaign will look like, directed by the DS and directed by the SNS. So far, the only way you haven't bought voters is by offering them human organs. Now in the election campaign, God forbid we see that too. So far you've offered: steam, cement, gravel, fishing sticks, glasses, pressure gauges, goats, sheep, who knows what you didn't do. You have not yet offered voters who have heart problems or kidney problems that you will give them heart and kidney if they vote for you. In the next election campaign, and like this to the law, God forbid it happens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55954	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55955	The political party, which today, after 20 years, still tends to advocate conflict policy, has offered human organs in the past, but others. That's what the citizens paid for, indeed, with their own lives and organs. Why is this amendment unacceptable to us? We're obviously different from the concept of society, by how we think this society should be arranged. We are completely different from where Serbia should go and we deeply believe that Serbia's citizens' future is approaching the EU. It is the choice of those political options advocated for Serbia's EU accession. At the same time, because of this election, our determination is to regulate society in accordance with the highest standards that exist in these European countries and no one is making us, and no slaps or threats should come from anywhere, that is our choice. Because we think that the notion of a modern democratic society of democratically developed countries is much better and in the interests of citizens than that of those who are in the past, and also today they lead a policy where a citizen should serve some abstract political goals and invisible interests. Is this a law on funding political activities or political parties, there too, there is a fundamental difference in the concept of what this law should be. In our deep confidence, this should be a law on funding political activities, because the constitutional right of citizens to active and passive voting rights provides the right for those who are not political parties to participate in political activities. We think it is good that a democratic society, developing political pluralism, also gives a chance to those not organised into political parties, and they want to participate in political activities and electoral activities, have the right to be equally treated and financed as political entities, which are political parties. And in that sense, all the amendments that have been submitted, which consistently insist that this should be a law on funding political parties, not political activities, are unacceptable to us because, in our deep conviction, they actually narrow down the constitutional right of citizens, to satisfy their active and passive voting rights. And in this sense, none of these amendments are acceptable to us and the MEP Group will vote for these amendments in the voting day, because we think it is essentially different concepts of understanding the political system and role, on the one hand, political parties, but also other forms of organisation of citizens who want to engage in political activities and in electoral activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55956	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55957	Mr. Novakovic, two members were injured, Mrs. Kolundzhija injured Article 107 by her exposure. The Rules of Procedure, or the dignity of the National Assembly, has been hurt, and what she said is, indeed, totally embarrassing. If you didn't listen carefully, she said that the SRS party that offered human organs in the past, but others. So, I don't remember when anyone, well, at least in the heat of any political struggle, said something so monstrous. You know very well that we've never offered anyone's organs or anyone else's, I really think it would be best, Mrs. Kolundjia, to show a little humanity and apologize. To say that you might have gotten away with it, that you didn't mean it, you could dispute a policy that some political party advocates in different ways, but this is below each level, certainly below the level of the National Assembly. You, Mr. Novakovic, have injured Article 27 because, as chairman, you have not responded to such brutal, monstrous, shameful, I don't really know what to say, to such accusations. When I showed the pictures of humanitarian aid yesterday, as Mr Milivojevic said, namely oil, flour, sugar and tons of other foods that you shared in Kruševec, when they were elections for the local communities, it is a legitimate way of political struggle, because I have shown concrete evidence that you force democracy into Serbia. You say it's humanitarian aid, you citizens didn't choose to share humanitarian aid before the elections. And it's not humanitarian aid, it's bribery and corruption. But it has nothing to do with what you've done now. So, I really invite you to apologize on behalf of your MP group and in your personal name for these disgusting lies that you have referred to and said that it is the political programme of the SRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55958	Thank you. I didn't hurt Article 27. I listened carefully, and I didn't see that, apart from taking political views that are diametrically opposite, anything that could cause this kind of revolt of yours. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55959	I'm using the right, right on the line. So, I didn't mention any political party, I was talking about policies that called for war, killing, and as a consequence, of course, had what can be called "proposing other people's lives and other people's organs". Whoever recognized himself in that, I should ask myself why he recognized himself in what I said. At the same time, if you're so sensitive to that kind of argument, then you should have warned first of all about your colleague, who accused someone else of it, and if we're talking about the facts where he is and where he isn't, the policies that are being led, the people's lives, then I really think that every policy that called for war, hatred, impatience and the killing of policies that sacrificed other people's lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55960	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mr. Novakovic, I don't know what is political in the statement that the SRS has offered someone else's organs and other people's lives, so it's not a political statement, it's an insult. You have had to react to this insult and it is again proven that in the Serbian parliament there is a policy of double arches, when the ruling party or one of the ruling parties, insults the SRS, then there is no intervention in the Rules of Procedure, by the chairman. When we put out some political attitude, then it's said we're insulting someone. It's completely mixed stuff. Mrs Kolundzhija has shown, by who knows which way, that in the Serbian people Communism and Marxism, in a political sense, debt is difficult and, for some, incurable disease. So, the matrix of Ms. Nada Kolundzhija's presentation is next, and this matrix was also present in the debate on amendments to the Law on the election of MPs, which is, political parties are evil, political parties are social parasites, political parties are working against the interests of the people. Let's sort of end the political parties, let's make a political invention that no one has managed to make, which is, that we have a democratic and parliamentary political system, but without political parties. Now, instead of being called the law on the financing of political parties, I don't see what's at stake in this, one different formulation of the Law on the formation of political activities has now been resorted to, because, after the interpretation of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, politics is not just about political parties, but also about others. Of course, politics sometimes deals with children, sometimes artists, but who is he who carries the political process in one country, not only in the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time, time.) ) Well, political parties, Mrs. Kolundzija, (Here I am finishing) take Article 5. The constitution, why the Constitution in Article 5 defines the role of political parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55962	Thank you. Would you like the right to receive your word immediately and give my word to Mr. Krasic, who answered? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55963	Mr. Novakovic, from the point of view of the right to the replica, Mrs. Nada Kolundžija and I are fully in an equal position. First thing, and I wouldn't be mad if you gave Mrs. Kolundji the previous word, because we were doing great gentlemen, and that's familiar to you. If we go around, what you've lost, Mrs. Kolundjia, with an insult, I have to distract you, if you're talking about these policies at that time, you've got much better speakers than the SRS. You have Ivan Vujačić, Dragoljub Micunović, you have Ivica Dacic, you have Mrs Slavica Đukić Dejanović, your coalition partners, who were representatives of that policy. Today that policy doesn't bother you, Mrs. Kolundjia! Just to remind you of one more thing, in that old building, you were an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55964	Just please, no direct address...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55965	Excuse me, Mr. Novakovic, I still prefer to see Hope Kolundji, when I speak, rather than you. I'm sorry I'm a normal man. You see, in 2003, there was a Law on the financing of political parties, and you were not an MP, and Mrs Nada Kolundzija was an MP and voted at that time, the greatest European standard, the financing of political parties. And then it didn't bother Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, and now it bothers her. Why does it bother you? Because things have changed since September 2008, and it has not been done as planned, by taking the SRS and directing it towards the Euro-Atlantic route, and then it must cover the theft of mandates and this crime with the financing of a political party that you, Mr. Novakovic, have done in the National Assembly. And Mrs. Kolundjia, I suppose you probably have some frustration from some past. You were also a member of Neboja Covic, and he was in favour of this law on the financing of political parties. You were a D.O.S. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55966	Time's up. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55967	I don't know why it's always going to the field personally at a time when there's not enough argument, but well, that's the manner we're used to, even though business is inadmissible. To accuse me or the MP group of the ZES and DS that we are against political parties, that we political parties feel like some kind of evil, really, I don't see how it can be explained at all. So, DS members, by their choice, choose to be members, give their time, their skills, their knowledge to achieve some general and wider goals, deeply believing that political parties are the best means to achieve these broad goals. So I think that in the absence of a real argument, to defend another position, one seeks an argument that can't really defend itself. So, I deeply believe that democratic parties are essentially an integral part of the very basis of a democratic society, which is known as a multi-party parliamentary democracy, but I also believe that the development of this society is a process in which in certain times we will pass laws that will be in line with what is in agreement with that time, but that we will also build them up. So it's no wonder that at one historic moment we made a major step forward by passing a newer and modern law, in 2003, on the financing of political parties. I don't think it's in any way contrary to the fact that today we want to improve this system and pass a law that will define this issue in a better and more comprehensive way and, what's very important, remove the negative consequences of the law that we've been applying so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55968	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, there's no reason for the replica, she didn't even mention you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, is truly, in a strange way, interpreting the Rules of Procedure today. It turns out, according to Mr. Novakovic, that in order for me to be entitled to Mrs. Kolundzhija's replica, I must be mentioned by name. Well, I guess the contents of Mrs. Hope Kolundji's exposure refer to the contents of my exposure. You say it well that it is forbidden for an MP to address each other directly. Is that right? Mrs. Kolundji, respecting that, her business duty, did not mention me personally, but she presented her observations in relation to my exposure. And you're saying I don't have the right to a replica. That's a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure, which is not good. What probably irritated Mrs. Nada Kolundji is what I said about yesterday's act of the Dutch Parliament. Then Mrs. Hope Kolundji, in the absence of argument, repeated that old matrix completely wrong – radicals were war criminals, they were lurking at war, they were killing, burning, burning, raping, etc. I don't know why the truth hurts. Well, it's not my fault, it's not anybody from the SRS who hit you yesterday by a Dutch parliament slap. At all bells -- here, now the Dutch will ratify the SAA, we're entering the EU, and they've dumped you yesterday, said by the youth jargon. Why did they dump you? Ask yourself that. This means that your ten-year story is not true that Ratko Mladic is an obstacle on Serbia's path to the EU, Ratko Mladic is only a cause for pressure. The essential reason for the EU, and they will not stop until it is achieved, is that the Republic of Serbia officially acknowledges that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of it! What kind of Mladic, such as Hadzic, any individual, wants us to give up one piece of our territory! And when... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55970	Thank you. I tried to understand, and I listened very carefully to Mrs. Kolundji, and I am absolutely sure that her replica was the answer to Mr. Krasic's presentation and replica. And that was the dialogue. So I don't see where you've identified yourself. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is now advertised by Miss Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55971	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two members of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, have been injured. 1 – that the speaker should speak about what is on the agenda, but I would like to point out more to the violation of Rule 81(1) of the Rules of Procedure – that in the work of the National Assembly, in addition to the Members of Parliament, there is also an authorised promoter. (Article 89) Mr. Secretary hasn't been in the O.R. for over half an hour. I would like to remind all of you, and the public, that we MPs here today from 10.00 a.m., we gave a quorum, from 10.00 to 11:30 we waited for the minister, who came and who is not here. I, as someone who participated in the "wide" Working Group in the making of this law, am truly disappointed because I was expecting a quality debate, which cannot be without the authority of the promoter being with us. There are still more than 120 amendments ahead of us and we who are here, someone has said, few of the ruling ones, but there are also those of the ruling who have analysed this law in detail and want to discuss the amendments, we can't do it that way. I'm asking Mr. Secretary to call because he's here somewhere. I would like to point out that the members of the government could really be a little bit more respectful of the MPs, who come to work every day, eager for debates and quality work debates about what's on the agenda, and yesterday they came at 12.00 hours, as well as the day before, every day we wait for them for an hour and a half, and when they're not here at all participating in the debate. We ourselves must defend the laws until the proposal comes from the government. I want an explanation and only more respect for our work. I'd like to ask everyone to come back to the agenda and talk briefly about the amendment. It is impossible to accept that it is financing political parties, as the whole concept of the law is based on the financing of political parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55972	Thank you, I understand. I think we're discussing a subject that's on the agenda, so pointing to that kind of injury isn't established, and Article 81 of Section 1 is about working on a board session, there's a record, so I don't even know what to say to you. The word is Mr. Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55973	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me your word after half an hour after the moment I answered. You gave priority to Miss Kovac, who, as part of the ruling coalition, pointed to the fact that the minister is not in the O.R. Ministers are not in the O.R. for days, and Minister Markovic, who spent some time here in the O.R., has been turned his back for half of the parliament all the time, so he better not be in the O.R., since in no way can he contribute to making this law better. It's great, Miss Kovac, that you pointed out that there are certain rules and that they have to be respected, because that's also the answer to this controversy that has been triggered here, which Mrs. Kolundjia has not continued. It concerns yesterday's decisions, i.e. not making a decision in the Dutch Parliament. Unlike Serbia, the Netherlands, fortunately according to the Dutch, is a regulated state, so there cannot be considered agenda points that are not proposed in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, cannot be decided without the government's opinion before that on any foreign policy issue. It is possible in the Serbian parliament. There is a constant debate here without the government's opinion, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice are changing the government's proposals, and in the end Mr. Cosic will come out of this room, as our debate is so. To be fair, Mrs. Kolundzija did look at this part of the O.R. Parliament. I also realized he's accusing them of such behavior. I just don't understand why such a treatment or archin doesn't have to do with those, if it already claims that in the performances of the SRS there were such calls, I also think that it is, who were the bearers of that policy, and who are sitting today at the parliamentary club of the party that you obviously consider pro-European. I didn't answer for a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's offensive to me when you consider SNS a pro-European party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55974	I can only tell you that the amendment submitted by Mr. Martinovic reads: 'In Article 2 of the first indent is deleted. 'Now, how are you going to link that to your exposure I really don't know. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55975	So, I don't think any of us have the right, nor has he been invited to amnesty any of the policies and what he's been doing in the past. And in that sense, indeed, at no time do I amnest any of what he did in the past, for which he fought and represented. If he's changed, if he's changed his policy, it's up to them to prove it, and to the citizens to evaluate it. It's not our job, and in that sense, I haven't made any difference to the policies that I really think were fatal in the past. What's also a fact and I think it's important just to point out, so if someone allows himself to accuse a political opponent, that he's willing to offer organs, then he really didn't have to show that degree of sensitivity, if they were reminded of what they were doing in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55976	Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't think the whole discussion about all this is so much at the very limit of good taste, that I'm afraid that political discussion will take us further in that direction as a pedal in any better direction. Please, all MPs, of course, that such things as the reality in which the actual facts are mentioned, such as the organ trade, in the context of today's political relationship, not to mention, to end it and to leave it to other bodies that hopefully do their job, and yet Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55977	Indeed, without wanting to further heat up the atmosphere in the Assembly or, God forbid, insult Mrs. Kolundji, I just want to say this - Mrs. Kolundji is not someone who should give anyone amnesty for political activities in the past! In order for someone to be amnested, he must first be convicted. If Mrs. Nada Kolundzija was to say that Vojislav Seselj is allegedly responsible for some crimes in the past, then Vojislav Seselj must first be convicted. Vojislav Seselj has not been convicted, Mrs. Kolundzija, for more than eight years, attempts by the Hague prosecutor's office to prove his guilt and it is quite unsuccessful. This can be seen by Serbian citizens these days, when witnesses the prosecution has hired to testify against Vojislav Seselj now speak in his favour and hardly accuse the UN tribunal's prosecution of putting inappropriate pressure on these people to testify both against Slobodan Milosevic and Vojislav Seselj. I am surprised that Mrs. Nadia Kolundzija, for example, as a great European and a great democracy, did not interfere with the fact that, not only one church chief, but one head of state, because the Vatican State, in international relations, held a prayer at the grave, at the very least, a suspicious man from World War II, the Greek archbishop Alojzi Stepinac, who at the time of World War II, was the main military Vicar of the Independent State of Croatia. I'm surprised you didn't mention that. How is such a gesture in line with European traditions and with the best traditions of European democracy? And it is not, and to conclude, not one of the individuals from the Serb people, Goran Hadzic, or Ratko Mladic, the obstacle on Serbia's path... (President: Time.) Finish it. )......................................................................................................... in the EU, rather than an attempt by the EU to disintegrate our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55978	We've finished all possible replicas with this, we've exhausted even some new themes. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Buha, then Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55979	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of Serbia, we have a bill before us that will not solve the problems we have in practice. This is just makeup, these are the cosmetic changes to the 2003 law. Basically, this is just an execution order from Brussels, so we can get something. Something will come to pass, but basically, everything we have will remain in practice and after this law is passed. I have referred the amendment to Article 2 relating to the meaning of the concepts. Now, let me say that everything that is defined by the current government in the last two, three years is a failure. Why is it a failure? Because the terminator defines already defined things. The worst part is when you define things here you're incorporating into some new laws, so you define completely different. You say so in point 1 of the first indent: "Political activity is regular work and election campaign" etc. If we look at the Law on political parties, then we will see that political activity is a far greater set of political parties and other political entities' activities. At the 6th indent, which I will read for public reasons: "The regular work is the political activity of a political entity that does not refer to an election campaign". The least the lawmaker, when he's norming, in a trade sense, can't do, is define a certain term with one negativity. It's something. It's not. That's how it's defined here. Regular work is not what the election campaign refers to. '"What's regular work? Under the regular work of a political subject, that's what it means, and you say that regular work is what doesn't apply to the election campaign. It's the same thing with the other nine terms that you've defined in this notional law. The basic essence and problem, what the SRS sees, is the very name, and that is the bill on funding political activities. Why isn't that in the attitude of 1st indent 1? Under the financing of political activities, it means, that, that, and that. You don't have it. You define a political party, define a coalition, define a group of citizens, campaigns, regular work, electoral guarantee, etc. Miss it. But it's not the first time, in all the laws you're proposing, you have these situations. Here, just for the sake of the terminator, this law needs to be withdrawn, done, etc. I don't want to talk about any other failures in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55980	Mr. Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55981	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are persistently through the discussion of this law, as well as of many other laws, from the part of the opposition, constantly repeating the same axioma, one mantra, that someone is ordering us from Brussels and that we are passing some laws because one of us is asking. For these and those, I have only one message: if there were no EU, if we woke up one morning and said there was no EU, it no longer exists, the DS would have advocated that such a law be passed, not that we would satisfy someone, not that we would meet someone's conditions, but because we believe that a standard has been reached in those countries at such a level to ensure the best possible level of these activities in Serbia, in accordance with the law that we are now adopting. None of us have to ask for anything, none of us have to set any conditions, this is something we ourselves consciously want to impose as a condition, because we want to make Serbia an orderly society. When you play in the Champions League, you can accept the League of Champions' football rules or not accept them. If you don't accept them, sit at home and watch your national league, so you can interpret those football rules any way you want, you can organize cheerleading in the stands any way you want, but if you don't do it according to what the world wants and what the rules of the football game say, then you sit at home and enjoy your football performance the way you're used to it. If you want to be among the best, then you have to create conditions to be among the best, to be invited and admitted to your society and then to impose yourself on them as the best. Otherwise, you sit inside your league and that imposed rule, which you have prescribed yourself, work it out for free, and then one day, when you go to the world championship, look where you are, and where those who accept European rules... (President: Mr Milivojevic, please link your football experience to the erasure of the word "political" in Article 2(6)) I have to tell you, I don't have much of a football experience. We get a mantra all the time through the discussion of this law that says that we meet someone's terms by passing these laws. On the other hand, some resent us for looking at them and boasting that they are looking at us. The point is not to look at us, the point is to understand and understand us. These are two separate procedures and two separate processes. Well, when you realize what we're saying, then you'll realize that there are people here who keep the record. And these girls who run the stenographic notes can tell you that there's no problem with us when we tell you something, because none of the Democrats here mentions any political party. Whoever needs to be recognized, I recognize myself, and that's not his problem, that's our problem. Our problem is – for what? We have a problem because we want to focus our discussion on the way of the amendments, not on the direction of the country's political past. However, those who persistently recognize each of our words, those who persistently recognize each of our discussions, have a problem either with the truth or with themselves, certainly not with us or we have a problem with them. To finish, therefore, there was a question of what the campaign would look like when the law was passed in Serbia. Surely in the campaign, when this law is passed, it will not move a gun on taxi drivers, a hekler on students, and surely in a campaign that will be run in the near future in Serbia must know what, who, as well as what it is doing, according to the law that we are going to bring, it will certainly know how many money flows it has, how it spends and how it directs them, and it will certainly know what political activities are and what some other activities are. These other activities will not be able to finance as political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55982	The theme is Mr. Buha's amendment. Your wide procedure, I, can't connect, so please focus on the subject. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55983	Mr. Novakovic, Article 27. You've committed a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure. You do not have the right to interrupt an MP when presenting his thought of something, you are not authorized to look for some threads, to make some connections with the amendment and the bill. You're just here to direct that discussion. I advise you not to interrupt the speakers in the future because the MPs are neither guilty nor debtors, from a few days ago, free to speak freely. They are not bound by the framework of their political party. Mr. Milivojevic, it's an intellectual and idea of a bunch of DS, you know. You're not well informed. When he says it here, that's what Boris Tadic says. Take care, you will be rebuked, not only from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, but also from future coalitions. Please don't interrupt the MPs as they present themselves, because this is how we collect very good points with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55984	There is no violation of Article 27, because it was only a warning on the subject on the agenda. The word is Mr. Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55985	This amendment clearly refers to a part of Article 2 that defines regular work. In the principle debate on this law, I have pointed out that some of these provisions may be somewhat rigid and that they do not follow what today is the dynamics of political or party life. The legislator has been defined for this rule that the election campaign is only that period of time, i.e. the party's set of activities from the day of the election to the day of the final results being announced. In the real world, in real life, it's not like that. Today we are one year from the election and it is clear that all political parties in Serbia are in the pre-election campaign. Therefore, this division, especially this negative provision of regular work, may not be the best thing, especially when we need to define party financing procedures through these rules. Why in one way are the SRS MPs right to propose such amendments? Because we have deep deformities on the political scene. It is not disputed that, in addition to political parties, some other entities must have the right or at least the principle of the right to participate in political life. It's true that it's a human right, it's called "right to participate in community or public affairs." '"In developed democracies or in stable democracies, those rules don't look like that. You have these days in Serbia to announce that one of the unions, what we popularly call the state union, will be included in the election process, that they will run in the elections. When you provide for the rule that political activity is regular work and this is how you define regular work and then introduce the possibility of funding, does this mean that the union that will take place in some legal form is unclear, is it as a group of citizens, as part of a coalition that you define in Article 1, power and beyond the electoral cycle to finance its work from public sources under this law? And vice versa, will she be able to use, in the case of this union, 40, 50 years, as a kind of social property, in a pre-election campaign or to finance her pre-election and regular work as a political entity, not as a union? This is quite controversial from a point of view, not European integration, but European standards. Not to talk about that except in transition countries, subjects like the Alliance of Pensioners or parties like PUPS, let's not say they can't survive, but they can't be serious about political life. In our terms, it will obviously be possible for another or two election cycles, but we have to think about that period after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55986	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 2a be added after article 2. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Mr. Chairman, because of the situation that we are on the third amendment at 120 minutes, I need to tell you a short story. These days, you are likely to be vice president of the National Assembly to learn that part of the MPs from the Assembly had a mobile parliament. And do you know what the people tell us, and in part because of the story that you are responsible for infringing the Rules of Procedure today, because of this whole situation, about the work and what is the rating of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I really don't want to comment on that, because we've heard a lot of bad words on the ground in these three municipalities of the Zlatibor County. If we were to go back to the draft law on funding political activities and I would continue in the context of a story that my distinguished colleague, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, has already begun, and in principle the SNS held the basic arguments. This proposal is related to the addition of Article 2, because we have seen shortcomings, so what we are proposing should be incorporated into the law. I must also mention the fact that the SNS has passed through all the sights and forms of organization, since the initial situation when they called it a traitor party, well, as a group of citizens, then they said that in the coalition with other political parties, etc., and in the elections in which we participated in this kind of political organization we received a lot more votes and trust and, fortunately, we were not traitors to the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's an important fact, and instead of dealing with today's topic, we're dealing with attacks on SNS, and for some who are members of other political parties, and they're trying to play the spokesmans of other political parties, that these and them, too, Tomislav Nikolic, really, wouldn't need a political party to beat them convincingly. I would return to Article 2, and I made this advocacy and the introduction for the reason that the SNS has passed all these kinds of political organisation and since the political party is the only such form of political organisation as a constitutional category, so we have proposed to the amendments submitted by the SNS MPs essential changes related to Articles 1 and 2, we wanted to highlight the clear rules, given that political parties are a constitutional category, and that the groups of citizens and coalitions are not, as such, necessary to regulate the way of registration and the legal position of the coalition and the group of citizens, within the meaning of this law. Under this law, many rights and obligations also have groups of citizens and coalitions, and they also have undeniable legal entities, since they have, for example, responsible persons, their own property, can be participants in payment traffic, can have their own giro accounts open, through which they make payments, make up financial reports and obtain financial resources in their own name and for their own account, as well as other features that show that in legal traffic they really have legal personality as such. In view of this, we asked that Article 2a be added after Article 2a which defines, in a slightly more detailed and better way, and coalitions and groups of citizens, their relations, then, the agreements on the establishment of both and other, which these contracts must necessarily contain and where they register, as they register. In order not to read the amendment that is really long, I am trying to convince him because of a small number of people, unfortunately, because of our behaviour and complete assembly behaviour, and because of the inability of citizens to follow such a traveling circus media, then, when it ceases to exist, as well as all that you did not include in Article 1 and Article 2 which includes the meaning of basic concepts, related to the draft law on financing political activities, and we tried to explain it more in detail; I am telling you that large parties, large coalitions are rules of law, and that at some point they could not even cross the censorship, so they had to team together with diverse and groups of citizens and coalitions. I point to this situation in the political life in which we can all be, therefore, by proposing amendments and additions to Articles 1 and 2 and all other members, we have tried to separate political parties as political entities and define the legal basis for all that is related to groups of citizens and coalitions, which are mainly due to pre-election, electoral activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55988	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55989	We, by amendment to Article 3, specified what was necessary to specify, and that is to... You turned off my microphone. [[Disabled microphone.]] I am talking about an amendment submitted to Article 3, where we have provided that, apart from the proposal of the proposings, which provided that political entities finance regular work and election campaign only from public and private sources, these private sources are separated in the way budget rules are imposed and that real life requires, that they be separated into – sources, indeed, private, as gifts, contributions, bearings, etc. and at your own sources, which are your own sources, such as borrowing from credit, but also the revenues you get from promotional activities by selling your publications, political symbols, and you will see in the later solutions that we have arranged, at advance prices and at all 5% profit, which allow such promotional activity to be carried out and that it has a purpose for which it exists. And you answer, in your explanation for refusing this amendment, you have said precisely enough what you have just said – public, which gives state, and private everyone else. Borrowing is not someone else's and private, it's your own income. Is that what you call budget sources and your own revenues in the budget? That kind of inconsistencies can only be understood as one senseless resistance to the rejection of otherwise constructive objections, because in this way you could be much simpler to follow: public sources, private and private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55990	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Krasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55991	If he can count from the time of the political party. In the third position of Article 3, the promoter wrote that a political entity could be in charge of banks and other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law. The SRS is seeking to erase this because we believe that nothing has changed more, that there is still room for the principle that political parties should maintain their independence, independence and preserve their ideological position and, among other things, they can preserve it if they are financially independent, not dependent on this kind of sponsor, such as banks. Because when the bank gives its resources and when it finances something, it does so not only because of interest as income, but also because of some other interests. I must remind you that there is no provision in this 2003 law on the financing of political parties that allows the financing of political parties through borrowing from banks and financial organisations. It was a European standard at the time, a great principle Serbia had to respect. The promoter of this principle was Mr. Djelic. That's when DOS deputies accepted it as a rule of conduct. You see, in these seven, eight years, your attitude has changed. Why? Because you have an obligation to cover something so someone doesn't answer for criminal acts, reasonable suspicions that there are crimes and something else. One of these victims of this type of manipulation and designed system is the SRS. I would now read to you a stenogram from the Presidential College session on 12 March 2008, when a decision was made not to indemnify the SRS, not to come into debt slavery, and one said, "Blood only 300,000 euros, two million euros will be placed in this campaign, etc., in order to go to the Bank "Intect", concluded the short-term loan contract, did not return the funds, and then on June 25, 2008, re-scheduled the loan in the long-term. This was learned in early October, and then complete accounting, accounting ran away with him, and the Bank "Intect" charged its claims to the SRS through the bonds. Of course, it's a big dispute now. There are even statements of recognition that this crime was committed. It was published in books – only public appearances and statements were quoted by people who participated in the operation. It's already a well-known thing and it doesn't need to God to comment on. In the end, it will break into four judges of the Court of Appeal, which are part of the conspiracy and that conspiracy plan against the SRS. But since this is all already known, that we are not wasting time around it, I am notifying the public that there is nothing of the political party's own operation if it is in debt with the banks, especially if it is in debt with the Bank of Inteza, you know. We know why you're pushing this fence. You're counting on how you can legalize and amnesty what happened in that operation against the SRS. I'm informing you that you can't legalize it, for that all participants will have to respond eventually. Also, I draw your attention, if there is a private source to borrowing political parties from banks, then political parties participate as the lobby of the banking organisation, and banks today in Serbia are clear and clothing not only in the financial market, but also directly affect monetary policy and government policy, and you can also see the policy of the parties of government and opposition. In order to preserve the purely political independence of political parties, funding must be banned through borrowing from banks and other financial organisations, even a type of loan must be banned, and funds from abroad must be banned, whether foreign countries, too, and when it comes to international organisations. Think carefully, be assured, that unless you adopt this amendment, far greater damages threaten political life and political conditions in the Republic of Serbia, because then citizens essentially do not vote for political parties, for lists, for candidates, but rather vote for banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55992	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55993	Thank you. We continue to elaborate on Article 3 which we also wanted to change, and yes, as in Articles 1 and 2, we do termological clarifications. At first sight, a valid member of the proposal, Article 4, is clear enough. It is a member of one attitude, one sentence, an extended sentence, and perhaps a careless reader would be done, which, now, is what advancers require to change one such clear member, however, is not all that. Just for a few words, the longer member you did not accept, when you were considering, although it was the legal basis of all kinds to accept Article 4, how we re-formed it and that it said: "public sources of funding are money, services and goods provided by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government," and it is common to what is in the proposal, but then, follows, 'public enterprises, companies, institutions and other organisations whose founder, or member', again these three hierarchically divided levels, 'Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. "Why did we change that? Not just because a member of the proposal writes that they can be the bodies of these institutions and organisations, but because if you adopt this as we have proposed, later in the development of the law in the new members, especially with the authority of the Agency, we will meet precisely these terms. And, we don't see, really, except for the bad will, why this problem is to accept this amendment, because it would essentially contribute to the crystal clarity of what was intended to be done, aside from the fact that we mentioned it in an explanation that it corresponds to some legal nomenclature used in the Agency Act, and the Agency draws its jurisdiction from Article 2(2), which mentions both public officials and public functions, hence analoguely and public sources of funding. We don't see why it's changed, because if we want the authorities of local self-government to have the right to be someone who will provide some kind of service, well, etc., imagine if that authority in the local self-government is incoherent, what it can do, and here it's not clearly defined whether it's just going to be money, or whether it's an organization or a company, a company, which has an individual and collective body of administration that has to make a decision. This is not exactly the same if there is a more detailed view of Article 4 and what can finally happen in the election campaign of parties in local elections, which are in power, which in this way the authority of local self-government can do very much and help in different ways, from pure money to services that public enterprises or their director can provide, as well as other different means of assistance that would not be available for regular or electoral activity. That's why we thought it was very little, because it took a good will to make this member clearer, and later the other members that we suggested, according to our intentions, to change Article 3 and this change office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55994	Dear People's MPs, in accordance with article 87, we'll be working after 1800 hours today. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55995	How necessary it was to adopt this amendment, I would ask for the attention of the promoters, even if they did not have the right to respond or adopt, to specify, that the funds that are intended from public sources for the financing of political entities must be as precise as we have proposed with the amendment, and we wrote, 'under conditions and at the height of the prescribed law'. It tells you the practice, I ask the authorities to look at their and our joint Serbian "officer", when adopting the 2009 budget from December 29th, a member of the 24th budget says – the funds spent by the political party in 2007 and earlier years in excess of the foreseen Finance Act, the "Official Messenger" 72 and the 2003 corrections, and did not return to the budget until the end of 2008, will be charged by forced means. The irrevocable law reportedly clear for funds transferred by the Treasury Administration and by a competent person at the finance ministry, i.e. in a local self-government or autonomous province, political parties received by the government's treatment and by the government's payment method, allegedly more funds, and then had to return or charge them by forced means. Is that clarity and is that respect for the laws that we now have in the new law, and after such a compromising practice for all of us. As Government, you may not be interested in whether you will be compromised as – imprecise, inconsistencies and superficial, but as a political party, we, SNS, are interested in the way of funding from public sources is strictly prescribed and that it is applied. And, indeed, I believe that this amendment was necessary to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55996	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) (Employee Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: President, I answered the word after the last amendment. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55997	It is really moving to hear from SNS representatives some kind of commitment to the precise way in which the budget is implemented and to precisely determine how to finance from public sources. In fact, yesterday, during the debate, I presented in principle the facts, so I presented the amounts that the SNS received at its expense. That's the data I got from the National Bank Treasury, but this is completely against the law. So there was no choice in Subotica. In Subotica, the SNS did not win any parliamentary seats, neither did it come out nor existed in May 2008, when local elections were held, so again in a magical way it received SNS from the City of Money Assembly. What did the budget of the Subotic City Assembly get? What is it, a crime? Why didn't you just return that money that doesn't belong to you? It belongs to the SRS. There was also no choice in the municipality of Novi Belgrade. And that's where you stole the SRS committees, so you take that money and you don't think of it coming back as nice as you formally advocate. The same situation is similar in the municipality of Rakovica and in the municipality of Palilula, the same situation is also in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad and other municipalities. Do you have any idea how much taxpayers' money was intended, in accordance with the law, for the SRS to steal in this way? Now does this pledge of yours for legality mean that you have decided to repent and return that stolen money? Of course not. Therefore, do not deceive Serbian citizens if you already advocate legality, then take the first step, and return the money you take each month to the budget, so that it will be paid to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55998	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u55999	Please conduct your session carefully and tell the kid that it's forbidden to tell anyone here that he's stolen, that he's kidnapped and that it should bother your ears too, that before this paranoia of tracking SNS will take him, unfortunately, he's a young man, on a journey he won't be able to come back from. And it's not his fault, it's his dad's "political." If we're talking about funding, you're investigating how we SNS individuals finance our political party with our money and where do we get our lunch money if we've funded our own political party? At the same time, the SRS takes 2m euros from Serbian citizens who did not have lunch today. No one asks you – where did you spend two million euros from citizens of Serbia who did not have lunch?- I'm sorry. And you ask us, where did we get the money when we had lunch today? Therefore, I ask you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, if you are the true President of the Assembly, to take care, first of all, we do not think that we are responding to those whose goal is to the end, until the day the election results are announced, to stop us on the way to defeat the DS. We have a much more important job than the one they're dealing with. But I ask you to make sure that these words do not fall in this congregation. After that, we respond in hard words and Serbian citizens say – this should be all the way out of here. So, you should have hearing when someone here says about another MP or any citizen of Serbia that he's a thief, that he's one or another, you should say – sorry, you don't belong here. You can do that in court, where that man can complain, where that man can sue you, where that man has the right to defend himself. Here, none of us have the right to defend this many insults that have been given an hour after hour and are all directed against SNS members. What are we gonna do? This is who we are. This is how people love us. If we were different, if we were in a way that we weren't excluded from the SRS, we wouldn't have this many votes. Think about it, is Serbia worth the noise or the one the people want to see that... (President: Time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56000	Mr. Nikolic, I really appreciate especially this part of your finding in which you say that inappropriate speech causes the other side to talk like that, because that's what's really happening here. I really ask all MPs, that we all take account of the dignity and reputation of the Assembly and participate in the level that we all strive for together. I'd like to ask, of course, that, Mr. Rogovic, you picked up the next one? No, not according to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic as a representative. You can't. If it's according to the Rules of Procedure, then you have the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56001	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you had to stop Tomislav Nikolic from carrying out the insults he made. He was talking about some kind of attack on him, and I don't know what. He used, for me, you heard the expressions yourself, I don't want to repeat it, because I really don't think it's like this home. But you were authorized, so you had to stop him. What hurts the most is the truth of Tomislav Nikolic. No one can ask you to prevent the Messengers of the people from carrying out the truth in this room and this house. I read the amounts the SNS submitted to the National Assembly. They said they were funding themselves. This is something Tomislav Nikolic signed. The report says that 3,966,000 dinars were collected in 2008. Aleksandar Vukic, his deputy, with whom he obviously has a problem, said all that money from Tomislav Nikolic, that he had brought that money, but that he could not because of the law put it on him, so he deployed it on the children and on some other people. It is a legitimate question to ask Tomislav Nikolic where did he get over 50,000 euros in 2008, then the euro was 76 dinars, to finance SNS? If it's 2010... (President: You cannot ask Tomislav Nikolic on this agenda. You can ask a parliamentary question and you can also use other instruments that we all have at our disposal. You can't particularly insult each other and, please, don't do that. No, no, no, Absolutely, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I have not offended anyone. If there is a point of the agenda when we ask him, it is precisely the Law on the financing of political parties – where is the money from if we do not now? If this was a debate about some other law, someone about agriculture, then you might be able to make that observation. So, when are we gonna ask, if not now, where do we get Tomislav's money to buy a 92-square apartment in a smart building? (President: Time. Take away what you took from me, the other 30 seconds. (President: I took 10 seconds as I spoke. I've got 30 seconds left. This is exactly the right time to ask where the money comes from year after year?- I'm sorry. Where'd you get the money for the rally?- I'm sorry. Where'd the travel money come from?- I'm sorry. Where did the money come from for travel across Europe?- I'm sorry. That's what this debate is all about. Tomislav Nikolic is on the run from the topic, and he is not ashamed to say that the SRS has taken something from citizens who have not had lunch. Two million euros, so how many million euros, you, Tomislav Nikolic, have in...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56002	Please bring the end. National MP Zoran Krasic had a replica of Mr Nikolic's exposure, and then Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56003	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, must intervene because everything Mr. Nemanja Sarovic said refers to an amendment on the agenda. You know? There can't be anything that represents the proven truth to be an insult and it can't be disabling in some other way – that lunch, that dinner, and breakfast. Please, under the existing Law on the financing of political parties, the provision is clear – the regular work of the political party is financed from public sources according to the number of mandates won. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic only read the list of payments, payments, the Treasury Administration, which shows that one party that did not even exist did not participate in the elections, receives public funding. Please, these are the facts of the Ministry of Finance. It's not something Nemanja Sarovic invented. In addition, he will likely continue to show you the verdict, where this illegality has been established. But it's more of a story about the DS that made this. She's made it possible to keep these mandates. She gave mandates to a nonexistent party. We're talking about DS. Please, don't rush the subject. They created one party to reduce the importance of the national political party bloc in Serbia, in order to increase the number of pro-European parties. That's the operation we're talking about. You know? This is where the data is true. If anyone doubts that information, please go to the Treasury Office and ask them, "Please, what have you written?" But what they wrote was the recognition of illegal funding from the public sources of a party that did not exist at the time of the election. (President: It's okay. Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56004	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56005	According to the provisions of the current Law on the financing of political parties, Article 4(2) says – funds from public sources provided for the financing of political parties of 30%, are allocated in equal amounts to political parties held by MPs or committees, and the rest of the funds, relatively to the number of seats, i.e. parliamentary seats. So, the old law where the positions 1 and 2 were not in line, but in paragraph 2, he made it clear that political parties having MPs were financed. That's what the law says. And that means that the SNS was supposed to get money from the funding state, based on the number of MPs it has in this assembly. We never insisted on suing anyone to pay us back those funds. We made it. This is not a place where any of my MPs can ask me where the SNS money comes from. This is where the law is discussed, and the court is where it determines what I've been doing in my life. And as for the SRS, she was the day I was expelled, cleaned up, as I understood. Stop laminate over that act. Besides, your president said if I wasn't expelled, Ratko Mladic wouldn't be arrested. Well, why did you kick me out of the SRS? And it is an increased party corps that wants Serbia to be in the EU, that is correct. But it was the wish of all of us who are now in the SNS. Although those who think that only they know something about Europe and whose president said that only they know, and that the opposition has yet to learn what Europe is, they will always say that we are not a pro-European party. You will say that we are not a Serbian party, and the people will say we want SNS in power. (President: Time. That's where you get lost in discussions with SNS. On private ground, please deal with me through the media and in court, do not go to the National Assembly, because here you spend the money of citizens of Serbia who did not have lunch, to attack Tomislav Nikolic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56006	Time, time. Zoran Krasic and we're closing the circle of replicas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56007	Of course, you know how ironic it is when a man who's known for strike hunger and thirst tells stories about some who haven't had lunch, but, well, let voters do their own assessment. Please, I draw attention to you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. If one shred of this exposure you just heard were true, then, on the National Assembly site, it would be written how many MPs there are that party called the Serbian Progressive Party. Therefore, in the official documentation of the National Assembly, the party does not exist. The official documentation of the National Assembly, unfortunately, falsely portrays these 20 as members of the SRS. So, you have this problem, you can't solve it, and since you're aware of that problem, you're still leading them as if they were members of a party, and we kicked them out, expelled them. Furthermore, does what you just heard mean that the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia does not know how to apply the existing Law on the financing of political parties and the Budget Law? Well, they do, they say -- you can't get out of public funds, from public sources no money, because you don't exist. They're virtual. No one ever voted for SNS in 2008. They admit themselves they don't exist, but you made them. You're keeping their mandates, you're making a problem out of them, counting on you to disabling the SRS. You've made a mistake in your steps. I need to draw your attention to that. So pay attention, please. When someone authoritatively presents some information, you must, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, jump in and tell them how you keep them in the records. You've got to call the authorities, tell them what the Treasury is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56008	Time. So it's a parliamentary group. That's how I lead them. Mr. Sarovic, advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56009	The dignity of the National Assembly was injured, injured by Mr Nikolic, who allegedly quoted Article 4. The law on the financing of political parties, which is today a valid law. And if you look at the stenogram, you will see that he said, trying to justify the theft of SRS funds from public sources of funding, that the funds from public sources provided for the financing of the political party's regular work – are obtained by candidates, i.e. the parties that have MPs and committees in the Assembly, in local self-government units, etc. He brutally deceived the public, so he lied, and I'll read you how that member really sounds...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56010	I'm going to ask you not to use the terms – it's a lie, because only a lack of arguments actually provokes the use of rough terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56011	I'll read to you what Article 4 is really like. The law on the financing of political parties and you will see that that is not the case. He says – funds from public sources provided for the financing of the political party's regular work, whose candidates have been elected MPs, i.e. the committees are set at that level and at that level. That's what this is about. So, the parties whose candidates were elected, your candidates weren't elected anywhere, because you didn't even have any candidates. You were on the SRS list, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, that's your list. And Dr. Vojislav Seselj is your "political father," not mine. Therefore, do not be ashamed of your 'political father', it is no shame that your 'political father' Vojislav Seselj, but it is a shame that in 18 years, as he taught you, you have failed to learn anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56012	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56013	I would hardly, indeed, have felt that someone spoke before me, however, for the sake of wanting to prevent public deception, Mr Sarovic did not read the 2nd position I quoted, and I already said that attitude 1 and attitude 2 are in collapsing. The position of Article 4 refers to the allocation of funds to the parties who have won the mandates, and to Article 2 on the allocation to the parties who have parliamentary mandates. So, honestly, neither him nor I are completely right and we're both right. We proposed a year and a half ago that it be corrected by amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties, to determine whether the parties will be financed by the number of mandates won or by the number of mandates they have. I was counting on you to realize that the European rule, which we accepted by the Constitution, is to count on who has the mandate, not who won it, and that whoever has the mandate with him can do whatever he wants. I've been counting on you to change the law and allow the parties to finance themselves according to the number of mandates they have, not the ones they won. You have not only not only changed then, but you will not accept the basic European principle in this law that we are adopting today. So, it's quite clear, I've read, I haven't lied, I've read the Law from word to word, and he predicts that the parties that have parliamentary, or parliamentary mandates are being financed. We do, even if they're virtual.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56014	No, no, it's obvious you have a need to tell each other a story, but I'm not gonna let that happen. There are no more grounds for replication. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has Miæo Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56015	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Member of the 6th Public Resources Service and Goods, the SNS Parliamentary Group has developed this member a little bit more than the Proposer of the Bill on the Financing of Political Activities. We quote: "Services and goods from public sources are services and good are defined by specific regulations given by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government, public enterprises and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia", or the levels already mentioned, "political entities whose candidates have been elected as MPs, i.e. committees and voters of the electoral lists. ''Also, unlike the Proposer's proposal: 'Services from public sources are considered every use of public resources to perform political activities by a person who performs public functions and promotes a political entity' in daily political work. Therefore, from the officials, in terms of performing official tasks, meetings, meetings, travel, public appearances. We also propose: "Services and good are given to political entities for regular work in the scope of a proportionate number of MPs or councilors, and in the election campaign to all voters of the electoral lists in equal scope. "In the principle debate, both SNS and Mr Markicevic, a respected colleague from New Serbia, spoke about it. Furthermore, we are considering the fact that "public enterprises and institutions can give political entities to use without compensation only for rooms and open spaces with necessary equipment". So what is it that public enterprises and institutions can provide for a service, i.e. to use political entities – a little more than you have foreseen in the position of the 2nd said Article 6a, certain acts relating to the provision of services and the development of laws under this article, are all levels, therefore, of the organisations of the Republic of Serbia, of the Autonomous Province, of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56016	The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56017	I just want to add one sentence. The proposer's explanation states that we have unsuitably defined this amendment widely. I just want to say, and isn't it true when we define that public funds are subject to rights -- political entities that compete in the electoral process and participate in it, and those who should receive funds for regular work. So, both coalitions and groups of citizens and political parties, but not any political entities, always, everywhere and under any circumstances. It means that we have so many resources and that all those who believe to be involved in political life can make them available to them. You completely erase the difference between parliamentary parties and extraparliamentary ones and delete the difference between the electoral process, regular work and the usual political life. We consider it a waste of resources and inappropriate treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56018	Mr. Sarovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good example of Article 6 or Amendment to Article 6 which has been directed by the SNS Parliamentary Group to see how much they do not know what they want. Just before, when Tomislav Nikolic tried to deceive both you and the public, how can he and I be right, and how is it possible that Article 4. The law on the financing of political parties determines which party, possibly a group of citizens, has the right to finance, and that finally after funding those who did not go to the elections, there is no such thing. You, Mr. Nikolic, you don't understand! Is it because of the fact that you're not a lawyer, that for some other reason I don't know... (President: Mr. Sarovic, please do not address directly, and secondly, this issue is an amendment to Article 6.) No problem at all. Read that this is identical, it is only a second number of members in this previous law, he was a member of the 4th, and in the amendment submitted by the SNS says that – services and goods from public sources can be obtained by political entities whose candidates have been elected as MPs, i.e. representatives. And that is the provision of the law, the provision of that first position, which determines the circle of political parties that can have it, and then, below, determines how these funds are allocated, but only within that circle of political entities that can stand in line to get the funds. It is possible that the political party has elected MPs at some point without having them afterwards. Is it because someone will resign or, God forbid, someone dies, so there won't be a new one on the list to replace that person, and it's a possible situation, but it's not possible that the political party doesn't exist at the time of the election, that it doesn't have a list of its own, and that later it has a councilman, MPs and that it stands in line for the allocation of funds from public sources of funding. So that's the point. It's clear to us that they're trying to legalize somehow their status, but it's not in any way possible. And, just calling, just for a moment, on some European standards is completely pointless, because even the promoter himself wrote that there is no European standard on the financing of political parties and that there is no European document or law or principle with which this law that is now passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be imported.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56020	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56021	So, I think we should scan the bill, not the amendment. And just because someone's trying to scan our amendments to prove he's smart and good doesn't mean that the amendments aren't good. I'd like to ask the Assembly's office to find this needle, which, somewhere, is in the seat of the predecessors, which pricks him and makes him jump any minute or at least make him change the place, since, apparently, people know where he is sitting. When I spoke of European values, I was talking about the MP having his mandate, having his own will with him, and that according to our Constitution, which is not opposed to that, he has the right to entrust his mandate to the political party or coalition, the list from which he was elected. And that European value exists, and that's what you've established in law. And I hope that the lamentation of the slave-ownership position that parties have over the MPs will never change that position in Serbia again. Funding has never been regulated, but it is understood that the state has allocated money to finance the MP's political activities, not a political entity from whose list he was elected. The MP here represents the people, not the political party. That is why I think that you should have thought this through and I am sorry that Minister Markovic did not participate in the draft law, but rather those who do not know what a parliamentary life is. For this reason, I believe that it was necessary to include the provision that funding should go with the MP, where the MP is also being financed, not by the number of votes won. Because imagine one political party that wins 15 seats and during the four-year term of the National Assembly, MPs, both by law and by the Constitution, remain only one who holds the seal of the political party, and every month the state pays 15, 50, 100 MPs in that company that no longer exists. You say it's a fair law. You reject such an amendment. It's absolutely unacceptable and impossible. What's the funding then? Well, whoever submitted the list was funded during the campaign. He received money for the election based on the number of votes won, as you say, or the number of mandates, as we propose. And it's over. Now a regular funding begins in relation to the number of mandates the state pays, not the number of mandates won. Four years is too long, see for yourself what's going on. The number of mandates is no longer proportionate to the number of mandates won, and this should be clearly separated, the amount of money that belongs to the number of mandates won and the money that belongs to the number of seats held by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56022	Thank you. By amendment, Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the absence of a better argument, then it resorts to the construction that something is a European standard. Here, I don't want to analyze any other political systems from the EU, but I will stick to a country that is the country of parliamentaryism, which is the UK. Tell me, how is it possible that in Great Britain you have four members of the government who are called "government whips"? Their task is to control the ruling party's MPs coming to meetings, to attend committee meetings and to vote in line with their political parties' views. In the UK, it can do that, in the Republic of Serbia it can't. And it's said to be not a European standard. Mr Tomislav Nikolic simply did not give us an example of a country where it is possible for one party to have 100 mandates at the time of the end of the election, while at the end of the four-year term of parliament to remain just someone, as he says, who holds the seal. Something like that is possible in the Republic of Serbia. I haven't heard, I haven't read so many books, as my distinguished predecessor, that something like that happened in the UK. I didn't hear that happen in SR Germany, Italy, Spain. It only happens in the Republic of Serbia. This happened in 2005 with Bogoljub Karic, which happened in 2008 with Tomislav Nikolic. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic was probably metaphorically trying to say that we, in order to play football in the European competition, have to play football with our feet, not our hand. All right, but then why do the English play it with their hand? How is it possible that there is political party control over its MPs, in the Republic of Serbia, around, a MP appeared from heaven in the Assembly?- I'm sorry. He wasn't run by a political party or if she was running for office, does that have anything to do with it? If I'm for Great Serbia today, and tomorrow I'm an "EU Apostol," it doesn't matter?- I'm sorry. Is that normal? Now you have one amazing thing in Serbia, you have an amazing thing in the Serbian Parliament. I was first a lawyer, and then I was born. First one party received MPs, then it was formed. I didn't hear, Mr. Novakovic, that this case exists in the UK. And it's impossible that we invented parliamentaryism, not the English. If you want European standards, then watch how the countries that have invented both parliament and parliamentaryism and MPs and the institution of the Rules of Procedure and Speakers etc. behave. Is that there? There isn't. And why does this have to exist in the Republic of Serbia? Well, because of the policy of double arches. That's how great forces have been treating small countries since the dawn of time. One rule applies to them, and another rule applies to small peoples. When the Republic of Serbia is fighting for sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, then it cannot. When part of an old European state is looking for independence for itself, it can't. In the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo can be independent, which is not Corsica independent? Because one rule applies to them, and other rules apply to Serbia. It is the same when it comes to parliament. Parliament can be a flea market here, it is possible to get an MP first, and only then form as a political party. You may be an SNS MP here and at the official web presentation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you write that you are a member of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, and that you are a member of a political party called the SRS. Are those facts? They did. How is it possible that such a thing is happening, and how is it possible for you in power to justify and legalize such a thing? You think it's a shortcut for the EU. Well, you saw Holland's attitude yesterday - it wasn't. If you think you can bring Serbia closer to the EU with a double-arshine policy, you are very wrong about that. So, we in the SRS for the Serbian Parliament, not for ourselves, are looking for those aliens, those principles that apply in these old well-organised European democracies. No more or less. If it is not possible in the British Parliament to get an MP first and only then form as a political party, if it is not possible to trade mandates there, if there is a link between the political party and the MPs throughout the term of office of one parliament, why is such a thing not possible in Serbia? How is it possible that it is normal, democratic, European there – in Serbia it is not normal, it is not democratic, it is not European?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56024	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56025	The fact that I'm named, and I don't think you should allow it, because it's absolutely illegal here, and if you'll allow it, then you're playing the same game as everyone else who's chairing these sessions, but I'm not interested in it very much. About "The Great Serbia" I did not say that we should distinguish with Croatia in the Danube, but rather with the party you belong to. But one other thing, a much more important thing that you are trying to scientifically explain to me, so why don't you give me one European state in which the parliamentary political party has excluded the MPs from its ranks and appointed another instead? Now, you find me a country in the EU, so I'll tell you that you have the right to banish 30, 20, 50 of your MPs, and replace them with those who are similar to political foreigners. Such manipulation is not allowed in countries where the MP is called. Where, by the grace of the monarch, someone was chosen to vote when he suggested something, that was also the constitutions of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, there the monarch has the right to determine some of his MPs. When the people choose MPs, they can't have the president of the political party replace that MP, but they have to think about who proposed him to the people, who chose him to represent him on the list so that the people would vote for the list, so when he comes to conflict with him, he has to think carefully about whether he is losing a member, and that member remains an MP, because it is his wish or will suffer behavior to have the same number of MPs he apparently had. I advocate that in all political parties, people get rid of the pressure... (Chairman: Time, sir.) ..... and say only what they think.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56026	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56027	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has obviously cheated or misinformed that in Great Britain, apparently the monarch sets up MPs and that he can replace them and that the monarch proposes anything. So, the monarch is only the state's title chief there, neither elects MPs nor anything he proposes, there is the main political entity of the political system of the cabinet and Parliament. The monarch is a ceremonial figure that has almost nothing to do with the MPs. But since Mr Tomislav Nikolic is a bigger European than me and knows better the political systems of the EU, I want to ask him – and where it is possible for a party to get its MPs in parliament first and then form itself as a political party afterwards. I've never heard of such an example. I don't know if you heard, Mr. Novakovic. So, an observation on the constitutions of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Serbia, etc. They're not true either. Obviously, Mr Tomislav Nikolic made a mistake in some textbook and did not understand legal and political history well. What is definitely that is is that the ruling coalition is trying through this law and through the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of MPs to legalise a single phenomenon called out-of-election parliamentaryisation in political theory, that one party becomes parliamentary past the elections. If the election doesn't matter, well, then, let's end the institution of choice. What should we choose? It's enough that there are people who have capital, who can buy a number of MPs and what we need elections for, that's much cheaper. Turns out, if you listened well to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, it doesn't matter how many people voted and how many parties won the term. It is important what is the practical state of parliament, how the situation occurred. That doesn't seem to matter at all. Did someone sell their mandate, did they give it away? That doesn't seem to be the question at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56028	Thank you, and I was hoping to learn something, but this time I didn't. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56029	He who says that the radical, and who knows Serbia's legal-political history, could boast that the Radical Party, by the decision of King Milan, lost victory in the elections, because King Milan, when the radicals won, said the first, the one who won, was not an MP, but the other. And so some "progressors" became MPs and called them "votings" and "trolls". With two or three votes, the monarch's decision became MPs. That's what your education does, Mr. Chairman, because you say you never learn anything from these discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56030	Thank you. This concludes this circle of replicas, I don't think there's any more reason, we repeat the same story and we go deeper and deeper into the past, and the future can't wait. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The word is Professor Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56031	Thank you. On Article 7 of the amendment, which we submitted in the first position, it is intended to support our idea as explained in Article 3, that the sources of funding of political entities are presented in a different way, the amendment has been rejected as a whole, and the explanation as it may have been given could be somewhat understood, that it does not exactly support the concept of how the legislator predicted and that this amendment has therefore rejected our amendment. However, since our change that we have proposed is somewhat larger and has two attitudes, instead of one as it stands in the bill, we think that this second attitude was the reason we were rejected, with one flossula, which is always acceptable, that they had a clearer and better solution. What we, in this second position of the proposed Article 7, wanted to introduce into political practice, which is to prohibit officials, those who perform public functions and who are members of the parties, who participate in the elections, from having parties, political entities, create written or unwritten, imposed or any obligation of material giving and helping our own party, to do exactly the opposite of what political practice is back in Serbia, where the SNS could neither participate, nor participate, because we were at such a republican level. And we don't know who and why it bothers us, to advance a clear position, that neither such an individual can receive any gift, donation, any giving, or any kind of request from him. We think, if not just because of this 1st attitude, but because of this second one, maybe it was just for Article 7 to be accepted, but it remains to be considered, so that in the day to vote, eventually, this decision is changed, and that we all commit ourselves together to a more honest and responsible relationship in the time of the election campaign, but also in later political action and beyond, in financing and assisting the party's regular work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56032	Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56033	Mr. Novakovic, I came forward before Mr. Poscurica for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and for my inexplicable reasons I could not explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisted of, so I have now reported on the amendment. I hope that's in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, you're very kind. I was gonna say next. So for the SRS he was never a role model for King Milan. If we are to return to the time of King Milan, then we will forget both democracy and parliamentaryism, as well as many other, conditionally speaking, European fluids. We are not the role model of King Milan, we would like to return to a time when Serbia was a parliamentary democracy, and at the time of King Milan was not a parliamentary democracy. King Milan was an advanced king. He had his own court party, the then Progressive Party. They were never the ideal for us. The fact that political opportunities in Serbia have repeated itself, and even now you have one court party, also called the Progressive Party, which is actually doing all the strength to bring about the political ideas of Boris Tadic, is the irony of history. Also, I find it a little incomprehensible that what Mr. Poscurica said, they are proposing an amendment that will prevent MPs from giving money to their political parties, and the SNS was formed by just, on condition, the SNS MPs, in fact the SRS, resolved the bag, so someone gave away 200,000 dinars, some 300,000 dinars, some 500,000 dinars, and so it was reportedly created by the SNS. It doesn't really make any sense to me. So, the party that, at least according to the reports, was created by someone singled out the money from the MPs to form, now the same party is proposing that something like this be made impossible. If, Mr. Poscurica, your amendment had been accepted, then that principle was in force in 2008 the SNS couldn't even be created, because it wouldn't have anyone to save the bag and give the money. Of course, I say again, according to the reports. It's clear to everyone that SNS is made with someone else's money. You don't have 300,000 or 500,000 dinars, you don't have a lot less, I don't think you personally, but different housewives, etc., but cane, Beko, etc., came a little abroad, so it's possible that in the election campaign in Arandelovac to share cement, flour, to pave the way for a party to stop being a political party, or to become a construction firm, etc. These are all anomalies, these are all paradoxes of the Serbian political system, which you DS gentlemen have made possible, which we in the SRS now want to abolish. We want Serbia to be a normal democratic state, that what is not possible anywhere in the world is not possible in Serbia either. Therefore, for Serbia, when it comes to the regulation of our political system, we are not asking for more or less than what is true of well-organised civilised and democratic states.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56034	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56035	Gentlemen, I must once again express my surprise at the fact that the SNS amendments are completely contrary to what they are doing in practice. We have just heard Mr. Poscurica's inauguration that it is against political parties to use money from public enterprises. I have also read concrete data today that for the party vote of the SNS, it is the daily "Justice", "Telecom Serbia" gave 20,257,000 dinars for 2009, for the year 18,786,000 dinars, for the year 2010 23,00,000 dinars, for the year 2011 14,00,000 dinars. The debt that existed from Future, Cannet's Future, a press distributor, owned by Stanko Sutotic Canet Zappac, according to Justice, was 40 million, and bought the debt by Telecom Serbia for the amount of 36 million. A total of 103 million dinars went from Telecom's account to Justice. When 18,661,000 dinars were added, which they received from the city of Belgrade, it is 121,712,000 dinars, so what would their party newspapers live on, what would the SNS live on, if they hadn't used it? Then, further, they say they are against the regulation of any giving of special obligations for members who perform their duties. And you saw when I read, that I am not wasting my time now, the list of Tomislav Nikolic through Igor Bečić and Jorgenka Tabakovic, and all their other MPs, all gave 300, 400 to 500 thousand dinars. What's this about? So you must finally stop fooling the citizens of Serbia and finally say what you stand for. He says now that Tomislav Nikolic advocates that the party that has MPs, regardless of whether it went to the elections, gets money from the state. Tomislav Nikolic has not always stood for it. Here, let me read you what Tomislav Nikolic said a while ago. When it comes to the question of journalists who say, "The Party of Bogoljub Karic has managed to become parliamentary thanks to your former MP, so how do you view the announcement that the PSS will form a parliamentary club? "And Tomislav Nikolic says: "It is a supreme immorality. Almost a year and a half after the election, Bogoljub Karic has the nerve to say that his party has become parliamentary and has not even gone to the polls. There's no such thing in the world. "Here, now, unfortunately, there is one in Serbia, and that example is Tomislav Nikolic. He says, "It's a crime, Karic has proved to be a thief. It is the image of Bogoljub Karic. "Then is Tomislav Nikolic a criminal and a thief? According to his own standards, I do not claim it, according to Tomislav Nikolic. (President: This is not the topic of the agenda. It is, as it is not, the Law on the financing of political parties. What's the topic, if it's not this? (President: Amendment to Article 7) Be patient. It's about funding, that's the point. So it's a way of funding political parties, but be patient another 2-3 sentences. Tomislav Nikolic says: "You can imagine what he would do if he came to power when he was an opposition to such crime. His party should be politically destroyed. A karic can now redeem married women without a problem, I don't see any difference. This is the last test where we see how the state will react to this crime, Bogoljub Karic. "Unfortunately, you did not react, so now there is this much greater crime. Then he says, "He showed how unscrupulous he is and that he can step over anything to achieve his goal. "When asked by the press, "What did he offer Zivadadic Lekic to cross over to him? ", he says, "I have no idea, nor am I interested. "He ruined his life, for this messenger swore an oath in the church and before God on the same day that Mr Tomislav Nikolic also took the oath. And then he says, "He didn't betray the SRS, he betrayed God. Our oath states that the MP swears by faith, honor, honesty and offspring that he will follow the policy of the SRS and that it only has his mandate. Bogoljub Karic also knows our oath. Apparently, he founded a new church, as soon as our former envoy, who under oath in the church, passed over to him without Bogoljub Karic's concern. Here, I also call on Patriarch Pavel to plead, because Karic boasts he has something to do with it. "It might be appropriate to invite now and the current patriarch to plead, since Tomislav Nikolic, like, in his own time, claims to have good relations with the church.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56036	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 8th amendment. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I immediately apologize to Mr. Chairman, but I will speak of the law, of this member. It's not very common today, but I'll try. (President: I thank you. I'm not quite sure exactly who I'm talking to. Mr. Markovic is sitting here, however, but I would say he is neither guilty nor debtor. The law did not write, if I may say so, is a visible signature on the law, since it seems that the law is written by feet, then it is quite clear that it comes from the Ministry of Justice. The Democratic Party of Serbia, we said in the debate in principle, believes it is worth passing a new law on the financing of political parties and that is why we have put a lot of effort into writing only ten amendments to the existing law. We could have written a lot more. In our best interest to correct the text of the law we have submitted ten amendments and imagine none has been accepted. Not even the amendments that were only correcting some, I'm sorry for the expression, the notorious nonsense they're writing in this law. We haven't even put amendments on all the notorious nonsense, we've put on this article 8. I'll explain what's going on right now, and it's not accepted either. Article 8 states that members of political parties can be paid exclusively through the current account. First of all, you, the chairman, are a lawyer, there is no law that obliges citizens to have a current account. Secondly, there are citizens who want to have a current account, they can't open it. You try as an MP to go to the first bank and say I want to open a current account, they will say – okay, just get me confirmation from the company where you work that you will pay, or get your receipts through the current account. If you don't do this, you won't open your current account. In other words, no unemployed Serbian citizen, and unfortunately almost half of Serbia's working-active population, unemployed, therefore, and that they want to have no current account. Not to talk about students, farmers, etc. In doing so, I don't see what the problem is, what you get is that you're going to ask someone to charge about 1,200, 1,300 or 1,500 dinars over the current account. The party has to keep records, have to issue receipts, have to record payments. Therefore, control can always be carried out. This is just one example. There are examples like that in this law. I assure you that, regardless of which party the party is concerned, at least 30% of the members of any party sitting here in parliament have no current account. It's a pointless provision. Actually, it doesn't solve anything. Unfortunately, the law is the way of such pointless provisions. In doing so, what should be specified, which should be terribly accurate, also written almost by feet. We have tried to correct it on several members, but the right to tell you that I have the impression that in this room no one, any of the 14 or 15 present MPs of the ruling parties, is interested in the government's representative, who has come out in the meantime, is not interested in anyone. And that blatant absence of the need for the law, I repeat the unquestionably necessary law, not to fix it, not to make it better, more useful, it's simply amazing. In doing so, all amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia were rejected, and as far as I've noticed, practically all other opposition parties, so I'm not sure it makes any sense for us to sit here and talk, because it's obviously one conversation of completely deaf people. Completely deaf people. You want to explain to me why it's been rejected, if someone can explain it to me, now more someone who, for example, this benign amendment to allow a normal membership fee, when someone brings a thousand or two dinars to pay it to a party, usually pays it that way, is not paid once a month, or is paid once in six months or once a year, etc. These membership fees, as far as I know, are not particularly high in any party, because the largest number of members of all political parties and there is no money to pay more seriously to the party. That's what's even been refused. It's been refused because whoever wrote this was just trying to make someone like them, to formally like someone, not to solve the problem. The problem will remain unsolved, which is the worst, but most importantly, completely undefined. Not to say that there are entire areas that are not touched by this law at all, which were also worth regulating, for example, the area of how the parties spend money. Should we care whether the party spends millions and millions of euros or maybe some things should be limited? It may be necessary to limit the appetites of those who will earn at the expense of the parties. I didn't notice any attempt, any effort in that direction to define it in some way by this law, and it was worth defining. It was supposed to say that it couldn't take a second of advertising to be over something, and it would be. The parties that are currently in power seem to always have enough money and enough discounts to do so, not realizing that they will no longer be in power tomorrow, so they will find themselves in a position to actually pay for it, so a second on TV with national coverage will cost us more than a second on the BBC or the Si-En-Anne. It will cost and eventually this people will pay, one way or another. We don't talk about it in law. That's where it should be defined, that's where it has to be said that I can't spend an infinitely large amount of money on their regular activities. There's not a word about it here. I was saying something, but obviously it's not worth saying that the provisions on how to split the money for the election campaign, that the insurance stories, regardless of the real need to eliminate the fake candidates in the election, are very thin, because the parties don't have the property to guarantee. As far as I know, the DSS certainly isn't there, but I don't think any other parties have any assets to guarantee, to lay down bail. Secondly, it is absolutely pointless to place that guarantee at the time of the run, when it is not clear how much the guarantee should be. It doesn't matter if there's five or 55 lists in the election, and it can be both. The difference is whether you should pass 150,000 euros or 1 million and a half euros. Well, no, no, read, Hope, carefully, I'm not saying this out of evil intent. I don't think the parties who allegedly support this law are aware of what they support. Not to say some things aren't regulated at all. Let's just say, I don't see how the funds for the presidential election will be allocated at all, or maybe someone thinks that the presidential election will no longer be, I don't know, but there's not a single letter about it. Is it normal for the political party to have candidates in the presidential elections? Well, it's mostly normal. According to this, it doesn't exist. That is why I said that the law, unfortunately, is written on its feet, and on the other hand, not the most well-intentioned remarks of the DSS, and it seems to me that other opposition parties have not been considered at all. I'm not going to read you the obscenities that you've refused, because no one's seriously written it, so there's no point in opening a discussion. All in all, I think this is a completely groundless debate. Of the 133 amendments, it seems to me, several have been accepted and largely submitted by MPs of the ruling parties. This is neither anyone's will to listen nor the will to understand why something was submitted, so I have to admit, since it's one law where I don't see too much space that some different political approaches can now make something essential different, so this is one of those laws that only needs to follow common sense, nothing more, there should be no political reason for us to be different now because of the political approach of things. We're back to the point where we're going to pass one bad law, one inapplicable law. We're going to fill out some form, and we're not going to, and the law on the first corner is going to have to fix it, and that's perfectly clear to me, because this and this law doesn't lead to anything. I won't answer my word anymore, because I find it completely declassified that people who are even interested in the whole matter are interested in me explaining why we suggested something, I don't see any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56038	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56039	Dear Chairman, we have not yet reached that amendment, I will use the time of the mandated representative of the Manjin Parliamentary Group. Just to make it clear to the public, this morning at half past ten, the Justice and Administration Committee, which is the parent board for this law, has adopted several amendments. The task force, which I spoke of both in principle and today, which was working on this bill, as far as campaign money is concerned, funds from public sources for the campaign, the electoral guarantee, indeed, had a different idea, but this decision was made on the government. The current proposal that came before the MPs is such that 20% of the funds are distributed to everyone. Indeed, this first formulation was unclear, which is actually the amount of guarantee the parties have to make, but the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration clarifies this because it is explained that these funds will be paid within five days of the day of the announcement of all the electoral lists, so that it will be clear how many participants are in the elections and 0.1% of the expenditure. From this, it is very easy to calculate what is the amount, so how much is 20% of that amount, it is divided by the number of participants in the elections and will be known specifically what is the amount of the electoral guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56040	Thank you, too. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56041	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I am reporting for the word on this amendment, listening to fellow opposition colleagues who spoke just minutes ago. Indeed, we know here that opposition MPs can, in very rough words, qualify for some legal texts, but I think we have an obligation to the public who may be following this session to give a few explanations. The opposition MP can say that the law is written by feet, that it is full of nonsense, that common sense would not endure it, etc., but we who will vote for this law owe the citizens an explanation, especially when it comes to criticism and legal provision that if you want to pay the membership fee to the political party you must have a current account. I don't know what Mr. Shami was reading, what bill of law, but it doesn't say anything. So any membership fee of up to 1,000 dinars can be paid directly without a current account. I don't know a political party in Serbia that has more membership fees than 1,000 dinars. In DS students pay 100 dinars per year, employed by 300 dinars, therefore there are no obstacles that you now have to open a current account. We've been listening here for half an hour to discuss how unreasonable, stupid, blatant, and I don't know what kind of solution it is. It's just because of the public, it doesn't say it in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56042	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56043	On behalf of the SRS, I also submitted an amendment to Article 8 and I also find this solution unreasonable. I don't know why you challenge the right of representatives of other political parties to say this is unreasonable. We asked to delete a part of this member who said, "A member of the political party is required to pay the membership fee exclusively from his current account." What if someone doesn't have a current account? This was unreasonable to prescribe. You could have prescribed and said – he is obliged to pay on behalf of the party. Then it would be a reasonable solution, because then it would be much easier and it would be accessible to everyone. This is something that definitely makes the solution completely unreasonable if you insist on being over the current account, or from your current account. If the objective is to control, then you would achieve that control if the obligation to pay the membership fee were to be on the party's jury account. You'd know who paid for it, name and last name, address and everything. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the membership fee, with us, is only 100 dinars a year, which is primarily a symbolic amount, so that such amounts of money can also be paid in cash. Of course we would keep these provisions, we feel that it is necessary to issue a receipt, therefore, that nothing in this regard would be disputed. He has to pay much more attention to these larger amounts, so that we don't get into a situation where someone pays three, four, or five million dinars, without even knowing who paid, or how he paid, so that one party official who told the responsible person - I paid 350,000, and the other says no, he paid all four million. When I read the amounts that individuals paid to finance their political party yesterday, you saw how surprised they were. Half of them were surprised that they gave the list 350 or 400,000 dinars, and the other half was surprised because the amount was small, because they gave much more. These are situations that we need to avoid in this legal solution, and I really think that, in this respect, the amendment of the SRS is fully in line with the concept of the law, so that the solution that we have proposed would be incomparably better, and that, on the one hand, it would remove the danger that this member of the law would be challenged before the Constitutional Court tomorrow, so that you would again be obliged to change and, in three or four months or half of the year, change the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56044	45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56045	Just once again, for the sake of the public, I will read Article 8, in order to remove any dilemma about the opposition's MPs not telling the truth. Paragraph 2 of Article 8 states: "A member of the political party is required to pay the membership fee exclusively from his current account. Item 3 says: 'Extremely from the position of the 2nd member, the membership fee of which does not exceed 1,000 dinars per year can be paid in cash or via payment. ''So, this sentence in item 3 is absolutely clear and there is no dilemma that any membership fee that is below 1,000 dinars can be paid in cash, not from the current account. It was precisely the idea of the legislator of this law when it was stated that membership fees were paid from the current account so that it could be controlled and that someone would not pay millions of dinars at the expense of a party in cash and that they did not know the flow of money. Therefore, what the opposition MPs say about Article 8 and their amendment should not accept it, it is absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56046	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56047	I have to intervene for the simple reason that this law regulates the financing of political parties, but it has to be taken into account the constitutional principles. One of the constitutional principles directly affecting this law is the right to political organisation, the freedom of political organisation of every human being. The second constitutional principle is – electoral law. As you put it, it turns out that every member of the political party must have its own current account. By law, you can only regulate a way to exercise a right, but when you regulate a way to exercise a right, you must not destroy a constitutional norm. This article is referred to as membership fee. When you talk about membership, if you were saying that payment must be made at the expense of the political party, it would be acceptable, but you said – from which account should be paid. That's not acceptable. This, from the point of view of the Constitution, is a provision that is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first thing. The second thing, in order to understand how much the party has charged on membership fee in one year, is that you can easily make an insight into the business books of each political party and know exactly what is being paid. It's just that you've mixed up something here that's "application" with "memberery." When it comes to 'application', then there is a completely different situation, then there is room to regulate in an additional way and with additional criteria of the situation. This is about membership fees, and you're all saying they're symbolic amounts. As you wrote, our member who lives in a village 30 kilometers from the first post office should open a current account. This turns out to be attitude two and attitude three in their own cohesion. Practically, attitude 2 would apply to everything, and attitude 3 only if it was less than 1,000 dinars. Think about whether you can impose an obligation on a man to open a current account. Well, there is no such obligation when communals are paid, but a citizen pays on behalf of a public utility company. But you don't want to regulate it. You want to derail, scare people. Just so you know one thing. Many of the provisions of this law do not allow any moral person to finance a political party, and you have exceeded all constitutional powers, I remind you of those later provisions, you have banned funds from a regular account from being transferred to accounts for the conduct of an election campaign, but are forcing political parties to be in charge of the banks. Because debt to banks is not subject to any restrictions. You're deliberately making a law that's gonna be bad. You did the same thing in 2003. And then I warned you about what was wrong with the law that Djelic designed with Alexander Drecun, and now you give up that law, so far you give up, to say – political entities, political activities, you mustn't mention what you were complaining about, and these are political parties. And you have formed a media campaign for this bill by carrying out an action to control how political parties, not groups of citizens, not coalitions, but political parties, are financed. Then, in the text of the Law proposal, stalled, in order for NGOs to become political entities with very important political activities, to disabling the political scene of the Republic of Serbia, counting that there is a system of NGOs and groups of citizens who will at some point provide support or count them as future coalition partners in some new suicide European policy of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56048	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National MP of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56049	Since there are several Members of the ruling majority here who have read this law and who are trying to make sure that those who may be watching this session of the Assembly explain what it is, I would ask that at least explain to me the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 on these payments, contributions, memberships. If you're saying that a membership fee of up to 1,000 dinars doesn't have to go from the current account, why does all contributions have to be from the current account? What about the contribution of 500 dinars, what about the contribution of 900 dinars that are not membership fees. He's got to get out of the current account. I don't know what you needed that provision, that it has to from the current account, if there's a full record, if it can be deposited on the bank's counter, the Post Office, anywhere, that's not the money you just said was millions of dollars without a trace. Any money paid to the political party's jury account has a trail and parties follow their business through authorized houses, even performs an audit of their business, although they are not obliged to do so, because they know it's the only asset, I thought the authorities, in the fight against the opposition, and now I see that it's an opposition's adjud in the fight against the opposition. It would be more proper to accept our amendment, that only persons who are in the register of the agency of their contributions, their membership fees, everything they do for their party of payments from the current account, because the Agency monitors the current accounts of those persons, although the question is whether they have the right to make changes in the current account under the Bank Act, I know on my case that they are making a daily check of the changes in the current account. The Agency shall carry out checks on the current account solely of the persons found in its register and shall provide for those persons to be made from the current account. And what did the provision mean to you, besides, you don't know how to explain it, there's no record of what he wrote, that someone has to pay from the current account, instead of the provision that he has to go to the jury account? It doesn't matter where the payment comes from, if it's registered in the bank and if it goes to the political party's jury account. It's an I.D. on the man who made the payment. What do you need a current account for? Only if you don't cooperate with banks, in order to make them as much profit as possible. There's another reason I can't see. Here, the current account is favored as a means of payment, which serves exclusively to make banks on this basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56050	45 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56051	I think that any instrument that protects against possible abuses, and such abuses have been, well, if an amendment is accepted that suggests that only the holders of powers and functions, then they would not ask about where the woman's money came from and how she can in cash pay that amount at the expense of the political party. The fact is that we can now say whether the amount of 1,000 dinars is sufficient when political parties and their membership fees are at stake. All political parties have so far made it clear that mandatory membership fees are below 1,000 dinars and in that sense every member of the party who wants to pay the membership fee does not have to pay that membership fee over the current account. This is about an instrument that needs to prevent possible abuses, that money whose origin is not known and that countless possible payments are thus misused and that political parties are financed beyond possible control.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56052	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, a minute and 15 seconds have been used. Right on line, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56053	I think you should know the law, so even though you don't have, maybe, I don't know, a settled marital status. So, what you've said so indignantly -- 'woman', that, too, is subject to supervision by the Anti-Corruption and Crime Agency. So, don't ignore it, don't be alarming about those who are married and married because their mates are being controlled by the Agency, if you didn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56054	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56055	So it's really totally comical to accuse me of any discrimination against women, it's that if I was sharp, I was harsh to abuses, not married or single or women and men. Therefore, I was very keen on the abuses that are evident. I am absolutely certain that the current law will provide enough opportunities for those who have abused the possibility of funding political parties in the past, that they will also respond, and that by adopting these laws, I deeply believe, such an option is reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56056	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, 50 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that this particular member has caused very strong, very many and very reasonable controversy, both by the opposition and by the ruling majority, this is why we believe that our amendment has given a completely excessive solution, so it should be adopted. In fact, we suggested that the 3rd number "1,000" be changed by the number "3,000". Now I'm going to read our argument, and I'm going to say more about it. "We believe that the limit of a thousand dinars is at an annual level to exempt from the obligation to pay the membership fee exclusively from the current account is extremely low. Such a solution means that each of the monthly liabilities on the basis of a membership fee exceeds the amount of 83.33 dinars must first open a current account with some of the business banks and pay the cost of payment turnover per tariff and the same bank (and recently we have been dealing with the problem of protecting clients in relation to business banks). ''Don't forget that law was recently on the agenda. ''The presumption that everyone in this country owns a current account is not true, especially when it comes to the population in rural areas, and therefore we believe that the limit should be set at the level which responds to an annual membership fee that does not exceed 3,000 dinars, i.e. a monthly equivalent of 250 dinars. This would prevent the harassment of the good part of political party membership and would not undermine the concept of transparency of giving, given that the political party's authorised face is obliged to issue a receipt of the membership fee and signed by the donor and the recipient. ''In fact, we know that in paragraph 3 a second form of payment is allowed, i.e. payment in cash, but this amount of thousands of dinars implies exactly what we said and I think that one colleague mentioned the least membership fee in her party, which is for students of 100 dinars, but this membership fee is also subject to the obligation to deposit from the current account, and the current account many cannot open in this country. Think of the supported faces, the peasants, the housewives, the students and the students. So we're making it impossible for all of them to join a political party for some simple reason, because they can't pay membership fees in a legal manner, thus leading them to some of the mildly said illegal actions in that first step. What we have proposed as an amendment was only acceptable in this general and acute region and I appeal to a minister who is not there, if he may be following the transfer, to look at this amendment and adopt it, because indeed this figure only justifies this payment method as referred to in Article 8. Don't forget, the current account costs. A citizen with a current account does not mean that he only pays when he opens, he must pay for his maintenance that is not small. Therefore, a citizen must have a serious reason to have a current account for the account to live and to pay from it, among other things, a party membership fee. That is another reason why it obliges us to protect the citizens and not to do anything to demoralise them to be activated by political parties. I think this way we'll just maybe encourage them to be more oppositional towards the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56058	From the time of the parliamentary group, a minute and 30 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56059	In the name of proper information to the public, the law does not really provide for a membership fee that is up to a thousand dinars to be required to pay from the current account, simply to be clear. But that consistency that such a small amount as the membership fee to a thousand dinars does not have to be paid by a member of the party from the current account is not carried out in Article 9, when the contributions are concerned. Item 4. The bill says: ''The political entity is obliged to receive the payment of the cash amount of the item 1 of this article exclusively from the current donor account. ''So, the obligation to accept contributions whose height is not stated at membership level is prescribed. Yes, in paragraph 1, it states, in addition to the membership fee, that everything is considered a contribution, which means that you have predicted that a cash contribution, even from 500 dinars, should be paid from the current account, and the difference is. When you're paying your membership fee you get a membership card, when you're making contributions, you're asking for nothing, and you've predicted different treatment, so some colleagues may have overly characterised the quality of the law with negative attributes, but, of course, there is a basis in this section. What we have proposed as an amendment to Article 9 is a precise formula for the contribution within the meaning of this Article to be considered as monetary amounts, other than membership fees, gifts, provision of services free of charge or under conditions more favourable than marketable, lending or loan under conditions that are more favourable than marketable and that a political entity is obliged to record all receipts referred to in Article 1. According to our proposal, all those who do so are obliged to determine the amount of the difference between what is called the market value of the service and the payment of the fee. We also specified that the costs incurred by party members and other participants of the events for their own participation, for example, transport, stay, diet, props, are not considered to be contributions within the meaning of this law, so we do not exaggerate in the smallness that someone who thinks he can do something for his own vehicle, that he does not have to record it. However, what particularly sets out our amendment to Article 9 and the amendment itself submitted by the Prosperity Group, Serbia is talking about the ban on making contributions by legal entities, unless this law on individual cases is explicitly permitted. Therefore, it can be specified that the legal entity is a contributor, but for some explicit cases, and in principle the main source of corruption in this country of Serbia is financing by legal entities. The main reason for a negative perception of political action, corruption in general, and political parties, is just financing from legal persons. The basic reason why of the 629 questions of the European Commission for the answers to the "Requestor" you were obliged to give an explanation is precisely the fact that, even if not only the Ministry of Finance and the authorities responsible for the payment of funds from public sources, they do not do so transparently, clearly and consistently, even though the law obliges them to do so. I really must repeat, that the concealment of the subjectivity of the one who contributes is when he puts a legal entity behind him and puts it before him. So, if Marko Petrovic wants to support a political party, he owns the company, the director, the chairman of the board of directors, let him choose to do it as a natural person. And why would he hide it? Is it because someone's gonna put pressure on him? Well, yes, you admitted that by adopting the amendments of counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic, where you forbid someone to put pressure on someone because they contributed to a political party. Is this the right way to clean up the political scene in Serbia? Why did you lead to a situation where someone was ashamed or afraid to support some political option they advocated? For the reason that this support, in most cases, when the larger contributions are involved, is not supporting the idea, but expecting to get the trade of what is called the 'Irrelevant Trade' of the one who will come to power or be able to translate political power for his donor, the contributor of the specific interest, into concrete money. And don't lie to us, and don't swear to good intentions! In this article and for this reason, there is a basic source of corruption. I'll say it quietly, that the one who throws himself can be heard better. But he can't hide, too, that the basic reason and global achievement, the ban on donations from abroad, the restriction on donation levels and the ban on funding by legal entities. These are elements basically rooted out in a part called 'political activity'. As a result, they are placed tenders, resulting in attractive locations that some receive under the most favourable conditions and all the benefits that are called policy translation into the most profitable work in this country, which we must not allow, and we must not allow only common forces. To your soul sin, leaving that solution, and I promise you, when the SNS has a majority to change one law, it will first be this law and in this provision where, honestly and truly, corruption is rooted in financing political activities, where a political factor does not have to return the favor of someone who, as a legal person, has given him some financial assistance. And to be clear, the participants in political life are people. They're the bearers of responsibility, they're the bearers of the mandate. They are neither a table of political parties, nor papers in the APR, nor when the parties are donated, nor when they are entitled to a parliamentary mandate, nor when a political idea is promoted. In that name, I really ask you, there is still room for you to show your sincere insistence that you want to arrange a political life, and this Article 9, among other things, is one of the significant contributions to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56060	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56061	I'll be very brief. I showed you yesterday, this is the report of a budget inspection from the municipality of Vozdovac where the SNS is in power. I realized that this is your commitment that without a tender, it is no longer an asphalt, that political parties do not return to those entities that did their services, I assume that you were referring to these enterprises that you have in the village of Podvala, in the Voždovac municipality election campaign, paved the roads, which you have now given, without the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, no less than 23.711.371 dinar. If you give up this practice, I welcome it. But I still believe that on behalf of Tomislav Nikolic, you cannot give up this practice of making great contributions, because according to his deputy, Alexander Vukic, he made nearly four million dinars in 2008, or at that point in the current course, somewhere, about 53,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56062	A minute and five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56063	Mrs. Komic, very briefly, since this amendment covered something that we had previously promoted to previous members as a principle. To draw attention, private sources, and to indicate what they are. Among other things, that's where the "append" is listed. Contributions are also private sources. However, how can it be a private source of credit, loan and other services from a bank or other financial organisation? The contribution is always a gift or something that costs a lot cheaper than market conditions. How can a loan, which you now approve by this law as a legal way of funding political parties, be treated as a contribution? Credit's coming back. If the credit goes under conditions that are different from market terms, then we are in a situation where the bank, other than interest, has some other reason to finance a political party. The second part of this amendment refers to Article 3 where it refers to legal persons contributors, I don't know why you have specifically potentiated legal persons performing economic activity? Why them? Let me not tell you about the nomenclature now, what is all economic activity, there are banks, agriculture, industry, etc. Why, you've avoided, say, those who do cultural work, who do health work, what can they freely finance? They are not subject to the restrictions set out in this Article 3. You know, the law was really written by people from the Agency and some people from the Justice Department who really don't think well of the political system. I'm telling you, these are the people who never participated in the elections, they weren't in the polling station, they never saw how to finance a political party, and I know, very well, that it was written by people who were both in 2000 and 2003, I was showing you memorandas from the American Embassy, getting funds, of course, and those who boasted that they brought in the jacket from Hungary the funds they received from the Americans to tear down the regime in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56064	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone else want the word (No) to Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic? Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 9. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 9 by a group of 11 MPs of the LDP Parliamentary Group, the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 10th Amendment submitted to Serbia's Progressive Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56065	This article on the 10th, we have improved slightly with our amendments, but significantly. You've given a short period of eight days, when a political subject is obliged to publish the donations you've defined to this member on the website. We believe that a period of 15 days, within which it is really possible to do all the activities related to accounting records, recording and reporting of such contributions, revenues. But giving physical faces over a calendar year is a much better definition than on an annual level. This prevents the possibility of abuse, which others have mentioned here, that someone misread what an annual level is, and what is actually a calendar year. We believe that the amount can remain as it is, that it is 20 average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia, but it is really necessary to eliminate any possible dilemma about how someone will understand what the law says, because it will all be the subject of control, which we will talk about in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56066	Anyone else want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56067	Only the truth works, this amendment provides for something else. Deleting, practically attitude 2, which says that the maximum value of giving on an annual basis is that one legal person can give to political entities for regular work of no more than 200 average monthly earnings. So you want it to be without any control, to be without any restrictions. I think that's wrong. What you're suggesting is that instead of 10 average salaries, which by law so far has been a rule, as a maximum amount, it's, somewhere, about 350,000 dinars per year. You're now asking it to be over 700,000 dinars. Why? Where did you get it? You are talking about poor and hungry citizens of Serbia, how many poor and hungry Serbian citizens can make such a contribution? Do you think it is normal to finance the party in this way, and in one amendment you also said that the amount of giving cannot be prescribed in terms of income. What does that mean? This means that Tomislav Nikolic can have an annual income of millions of dinars, but that he can make four for the party. It is against common sense, such as against common sense that it can buy a 192 square-square apartment, to give the party 50,000 euros in one year and who knows what else. So it's all against common sense. Let's see, if you're already in favour of these poor citizens of Serbia, and you say there are two million hungry, whose two million euros can be reached just enough for Tomislav Nikolic to buy two more apartments, how do you think you can be a representative of their interests? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56068	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The right to a replica of the MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56069	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. For the sake of the public, I have to say that the SNS is this attitude that provides for the possibility that the legal entity can give the political entity 200 average monthly earnings, and in the whole law, we are erasing the decisions on donation of legal entities to political parties, but we are fighting for a society where there will be less and less poor, more and more who will be able to contribute to the idea, and we believe in a quality idea. But it's already the job of every political party, individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56070	Anybody else answer for a word? The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56071	The amendment that we submitted to Article 10 refers to the word "political entity", we asked that the word be replaced by "political parties". The use of the term "political entity" in this article of the bill is imprecise, given that logical interpretation of the provisions of this article concludes that the political party is solely considered as one of the political entities provided for in Article 1. It's a bill of law. In the terms of paragraphs 1 and 2, of this Article of the Law, it mentions the maximum value of giving at the annual level for regular work, which points to political parties, given that coalitions and groups of citizens, as recognised by Article 2 of this proposal, appear exclusively as a pre-election category and in our parliamentary practice cease to exist by the end of the electoral process i.e. forming a parliamentary group on the basis of party membership, not on the basis of coalition electoral lists. Another argument in favour of our interpretation is also the obligation provided for in Article 4, that payments that cross the amount of one average monthly earnings should be published on the website, groups of citizens of the electoral coalition, as temporary forms of association, logically, do not have websites, and I cannot respond to such an intended obligation, which means that they automatically enter into a violation of the law. So this is an amendment that really had room to be accepted in Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56072	Anyone else want a word? A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56073	We, as our own sources, singled out specifically and separated, from the possession and availability of real estate because we generally advocate that political parties cannot deal with commercial activities, nor with business activities, and thus not with the renting of property they have, and I will talk about it when the amendment comes to order. That is why in Article 11, we have developed our own sources of income and we have said that these are revenues from promotional activities and borrowing from banks and other financial organisations. The revenues from promotional are: revenues from the sale of publications, symbols and other party codes. We say that they cannot carry out any other activities, therefore, commercially, nor can they be owners, nor founders of other legal entities' companies, nor can they own actions and participate in other companies, but if they are acquired by inheritance or legislation, they are obliged to report it to the competent authority which is also the Agency, they are obliged and to expose them to sales, and inherited or acquired roles, but what I want you to pay particular attention to is, that borrowing as a way of obtaining, not a private source as defined by you, but, in its own sources, imposed a way of paying attention to citizens. The campaign costs in today's civilized society have become truly significant costs. The way of addressing, renting minutes, terms, advertising boards require extremely high costs, and so is borrowing, but also practice, for which some do not know that in the 1950s it was introduced in other countries that we want to look like, in the sense that public sources are funded by political campaigns, gives you the right to invest in yourself and, taking credit, in something called dealing, by carrying out an idea. And that in analogy, not in practice, is no different than who takes credit, so it's his obligation to the bank to develop a business of his own, to deal with a business that he loves, that he can live on and enjoy it. For those who think politics is a way of dealing with a job that they only need to earn from, I understand the opposition of many of the solutions that are being made here, but also the way to take risks for what you're saying, the way you take risks, but also by believing in yourself, take the financial commitment to implement a single campaign, is, at present, possible, important and necessary to exist in such a law, as, on the other hand, I do not advocate that an individual, or that the state should live by the balance of credit, but the conditions are such that no one can fully cover its own expenditures, even at the same time and to the same extent, but in any case do not need to develop awareness that it can live beyond the limits of its opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56074	A minute and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The 11th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. People's MPs are getting the amendment to defend itself, an amendment that has become an integral part of the bill can no longer be the subject of discussion in particular, as it is an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11 amendments were jointly submitted by MP Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by the people sent by Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56075	The point of this amendment is that you have to respect the constitutional principle that whoever owns it has the right to have, use and manage and there is no possibility, under the Constitution and by any other regulation, that you are limiting how someone will use their resources. With this attitude, you have prescribed that a political party, if it acquires immovable property, can only do so by means of funds from private sources. It's completely inappropriate, although I have to tell you in practice there's little of this immovable property, almost no party has any immovable property. Mahum are all leased objects and it is a good thing they are leased objects, because the primary activity of the political party is political activity, not the acquisition of property or some gain from some business. We have submitted this amendment, first of all, to make this bill at least a little bit orderly and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56076	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56077	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SNS with its reaction to Article 12, and otherwise it is a ban on funding, she wanted to explain in a more complete way the existing member, so that it would be clearer and more complete and truly inconclusive explanation that the government gave to this member. And what did we foresee with the amendments and additions of this article? It is that there is a ban on the financing of a political entity by foreign states, foreign natural and legal persons, but under the term 'foreign natural person', within the meaning of Article 1, the person who has the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and who has a residence abroad is also considered to be. It's not a small number of examples of abuse of all this, so that's why we singled it out and listed it. "International organisations and associations established to protect human rights and develop democracy and improve the rule of law, develop democracy and improve the rule of law, whose member is the Republic of Serbia, can finance the regular work of political parties. ''We did not say that they could do this in money, such as the government's argument, but through a programme that will be publicly available to everyone, available to the Anti-Corruption Agency, to which members of all political parties are entitled in view of the situation of representation in parliament or committees in local self-government assemblies. At one point, you're equating finance with money in this law, and in the other case, it's not. I can't just be the finance money, as it's gone and listed. We've decidently given in one point of view 2 that such programs can't be in money. What the newspaper is about this member and what you did not want to touch in your reason, and the law did not even deal with it, therefore, concerns public office holders, who prohibit the use of public resources to carry out political activities and promote a political entity, during the conduct of official affairs, meetings, meetings, travel and public appearances. The question is, where are some representatives of this congregation now? Are they at the promotion of their political parties? Are they in their cabinets? It is not rare that these public resources are used to promote their political parties, as well as by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by ministries and other institutions and all public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. That's why, and the law hasn't touched it anywhere, we tried to ban the use and use of public resources by public resource holders. We've even predicted the possibility that these people who perform responsible state and public functions can't even wear their party features. This cannot apply only to members of local self-government, committees and members of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia who are exempt from this provision. It's not a rare example of abuse of public resources at all levels, but we've seen it from various ministries in pre-election campaigns, you know it well, the media obviously even cover it, it's not regulated anywhere, and the explanation that you've given is really, at least, very unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56078	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56079	Mrs. Comic, let me just continue with that principle we promoted in the principle debate. No funding. We in the SRS believe it is forbidden for international political associations to finance political parties and political entities, as you now call it colloktually everything, both parties and coalitions and groups of citizens, as forbidden to foreign governments, foreign governments to finance our political parties and participants in political life, because whoever finances, it gives money to make some of their interests come true. Now, since you're using a really very inaccurate term here -- "International Political Associations," you think, probably, that it's those European organisations that unite the Socialists, unite, say, folk, say, liberals, but you need to know that there are those who unite fascists, extremists, mujahedines, fundamentalists. Then how are you going to ban, say, some party from Bujanovac or Presevo from funding Thaci through an international organisation, to which he belongs. You won't be able to ban it, because you wrote that it is allowed to finance through international associations. Of course, in the existing law, it was a clear ban. But, secondly, is it a contribution that an international association gives to a political party in Serbia, if that is the contribution, to a natural or legal person? You didn't limit it at all. So it is possible that a seemingly lamb party, such as those going to a celebration, in Croatia, Srema, etc. etc. gets full legal funding to finance subversive activity in the Republic of Serbia. You remember in 2000, Mr. Canak wanted to hang out here in the Terrace. No one can tell him, stop, he's gone! You've seen him, he's wearing black shirts, he's black shirts, he's associated with something bad, and so on. You have now given him the opportunity to fully fund him from abroad for subversive actions against Serbia. It is therefore necessary to prohibit any activities of funding political parties in Serbia and beyond, to coalitions and groups of citizens, who participate in elections, funds from abroad. It is becoming a great danger to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by political parties. You've seen, these days they've announced how things are with gifts received by some members of the government. You noticed that Mr. Bozidar Djelic won the "sir" gift. You don't believe me? All the papers have been published. And, when you say it, sir, then it's understood that there's a "mouse trapper," because only in a mousefish is cheese free, and probably, as soon as it's cheese, they know there's a lot of mice in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56080	From the time of the parliamentary group, a minute and 48 seconds have been used. Does anyone else want a word? (Yes) National MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56081	I do not think that this amendment should be accepted in any way, because the vast majority of us, I think of coalition parties, in various international associations, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is in the European People's Party, such as the SPS, G17 plus others with other associations. In principle, in the debate, I stressed that we believe it is extremely important to take part in political decisions that our present and future members, sympathisers, both young and older, want to be politically educated, to become a political elite should accept international assistance. It is good that this article of the law in the second position stresses that these contributions from international associations cannot possibly be in the money, and this is actually the most thought of these trainings and of working with membership, as one of the later members stresses that part of the funds, even from public sources that we receive, is used to work with membership for seminars, conferences just for training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56082	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative in the parliamentary group. MP Zoran Krasic. You have the time of the parliamentary group at your disposal. People's emissary Elvira Kovaca didn't say anything offensive, please. To clarify, that's why the line to the replica? Just please, no offense to MP Milan Avramovic, he is decently dressed and therefore I warn you to speak politely about the shirts worn by the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56083	Mrs. Comic, I don't know where you get the idea that I'm being rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56084	From listening to what anyone's saying. You have two minutes for replica, MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56085	Just to clarify some things about these international political associations. I have no objection to the opinion, and the lady has a right to her opinion and finds an excuse, finds some argument, calls for some facts, I respect that as a legitimate right. But let me explain why there is a danger to the political system of the Republic of Serbia when someone is financed from abroad. Please, the Hague tribunal is funded by UN funds, foreign ministries of some states, ministries of countries such as Saudi Arabia, etc., and has specific sources of funding for specific cases. We in practice have here that groups of people went to Hungary, and to some other countries, where they were directly trained for such subversive activities in the Republic of Serbia. You remember that some people were boasting that they were carrying money in the jacket from Segedin to Serbia, you remember the famous Reuters cameraman who went to training too, so he talked about exactly what journalist was in training and who was receiving a daily hundred marks, and some received 200 marks, because those hundred marks were in whiskey. It's a public matter and it's not a question of whether anyone makes it up, it's all published. I am just drawing attention, for the political life of the Republic of Serbia, it is dangerous when someone is funding from abroad, whether in money, or in propaganda material, or in special training for the so-called non-violent change of government. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56086	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56087	Using the time of my parliamentary group, I would like to explain the intensity of the NS Parliamentary Group that submitted the amendment to Article 12, where we asked that in Article 1 be deleted and the words "except for international political associations", as well as to delete the 2nd position in the same Article 12. We assume that the legislator, when mentioning international political associations, had in mind organisations such as the Socialist International or the Right Party Associations and so on. However, the flat-rate formulation in the text of the bill, and without explicit reference to which the association is involved, leaves room for abuse, and therefore we propose this amendment to eliminate the possibility of any funding or assistance to political entities in Serbia by such forms of organisation. Of course, we are not against any political organisation and any political entity, which is spoken of here, being a member of any international association, that is a legitimate right, but let the help that comes to this country to political entities that claim to create power in the country be regulated and regulated by law. This is what all the serious countries in the environment are doing and why we should be the exception, why we should be more broad-minded than the rest of us. We, both as MPs and as political entities of this country, have an obligation to care primarily for the security of the country, among other things. What we believe really needs to be eliminated, as has been laid down in the current law, aid from foreign political organisations and one issue that is logically imposed, which is the interest of political associations and organisations to help our political life, because, of course, they must have an interest, nothing is given to gain anything in return. This is the question that we are facing and we are asking for an answer, so that we do not come back into the situation to be called foreign mercenaries, it is best to eliminate this foreign payment in our daily political life, and our international co-operation to build as the country's foreign policy, when we become in some of the next elections, the political entity that decides on it. Of course we are also against this second position in Article 12, a contribution that political associations make to political parties, cannot be in money. What's he got to do with it? Whether he can be in arms, in some special form of uniform, whether he can be in everything else, because he can help in various ways and can really seriously harm one country and seriously help subversive activities in one country. That's what we were up against. This law has first and foremost the obligation to provide transparently for spending money in political activities. We expect him to be so serious about it, primarily because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are more closely following this than other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56088	Three minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. The proposal reads: "A political entity cannot obtain income from publishing, or commercial activity. "We asked by amendment that it reads as follows: "The political subject can obtain revenue from publishing activity (books, newspapers, magazines, video, DVD, tapes and the like) and promotional activity (flags, coat of arms, souvenirs and the like) from the symbol of his visual identity. "So it is thought of the symbols of the political party. We have left a position that says that a political entity cannot deal with commercial activity. I think this is something that's completely natural, that every party has certain editions or should have, that each party has a certain publishing activity. As for the SRS, we issue a scientific journal called the "Serbian Freedom Thought" and publish various other books. I think it's perfectly natural and there's a possibility that anyone, from our citizens, can come in from our party, buy, or as a souvenir or whatever, our flag, buy a coat of arms, buy any other symbol, pendant or whatever. So it's definitely something that the parties won't get rich of, but I think it's consistent with some practice so far. In addition, I would like to inform you that this debate is about the disclosure of the way the SNS is financed, the disclosure of what they did in the municipality of Zemun, in which they finance their party list. There are certain consequences, and despite the fact that for two days they've been strenuously spit on SRS officials on Focus Radio, which is under their control, several hours ago the SRS premises in Zemun were attacked. For now unknown vandals, I hope the police find them, live in our rooms, break, take away several flags, as far as I've heard, two parties and one Serbian. The municipal board's premises have been rolled out with ugly passwords against the SRS and its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56090	Fifteen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56091	As I have just announced, in Article 14, which otherwise speaks of the ban on obtaining income from commercial activity, we have transferred that part of which is related to the availability of immovableities and by performing its idea consistently, that the political party should deal with political activity, not commercial, economic and any similar activities, so we have changed that Article 14 and it should read as follows: "The procurement and use of existing immovable and mobile things to rent and carry out commercial activities. ''In the second position, we said: ''The acquisition of funds from promotional activity by selling publications, symbols and other party labels is allowed provided that only natural persons are sold for personal needs for pre-determined prices that can be increased to 5% per item. ''So, we avoided the situation that someone can sell one badge for 10,000 euros or that one book can pay 1,000 euros, but that really, in relation to the voters we address, in the sale of these promotional elements occurs in a way that they know how much they pay and that funding, contributions, membership fees are separated as they should. But what is the special weight of this member? The properties that some political parties in Serbia have, by law, which can't be called just, according to inherited property, which is largely about the SPS, which is inherited by the Central Committee of the KPJ, as it was already called, and all other mutations that they had in their own political, when I say mutations, I say in no permissive sense, but in the changes they had, they have huge assets that are issued in the lease of colleges, of which the government, not the government, but the renters get accreditation. They also use various other organizations that are expected by the parties in power to be one, also, the benefit that can be materialized next to the one called the lease, i.e. the issuing of excess immovableity and plus some other benefits, which we are fighting, as something that is corruption in political life. And, at the moment when we all wonder what kind of law we're going to go to the citizens, first of all, not in Europe, by solving the burning issue of restitution, in terms of justice, when we've been emptied of the budget, when we've spent that part of the 5% that's been separated from the privatisation process in time, when we say that we're going to end the privatisation and that there's not going to be anything material left to compensate for those who've earned their property for generations, I really don't see a way, except that someone consistently wants to perform party action as the only lucrative and only good and smart investment for themselves and their children. I think it is high time that this body, entrusted with a large part of the work, which is the Anti-Corruption Agency, was entrusted with that part of the job in terms of the adoption of sub-legislative acts, in order to do this part of the job, that all political parties have what they need for action, and that the surplus goes into a joint budget fund that will enable the restitution and return of property to citizens. Because you, on the one hand, advocate that all political factors, parliamentary, unparliamentary, not those below 5%, but those below 4%, can get money from current funds of the budget, can access all the funds that public enterprises have, public sources, to get space for promotions, trainings, etc., and, on the other hand, what is currently important, important factors hold their paws, e, they don't give it at any cost. Where's the justice? Where's the logic? I have no illusion that the government is passing the law in order to achieve justice. I have too many years, experience and knowledge to believe that this law wants you to bring justice, but introduce at least minimum order and show that at least you care minimally about what is called justice for the largest number of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56092	Three minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56093	Article 15 in our amendment synopsis, in fact, this amendment of ours is a member of the 15th. The draft law, which was intended to cover one simpler solution all that is contained in Article 15, paragraph 1, which concerns the prohibition of funding, as referred to in Article 12, but also in the subsequent positions of this Article 15, and concerns Articles 9 and 10, of this law, which states that someone can make a contribution that exceeds the measure or other givings exceeding the established values. According to this, as it stands in the legislative proposal, when a party finds it either an authorised person in a party or when it is determined by an inspector of the Agency, an authorised person, it is automatically, not to say confiscate, but to be transferred to the account of the budget. We wanted to make this amendment for those, and there is always such a possibility, which is being funded and given to a political entity certain money, perhaps not knowing whether or not they have crossed some measure, when either a party's authorised person finds it, or when it finally finds out, as is in our proposal, the Agency, that this money is returned to a known donor, and if circumstances, in which it is not possible, simply, to move the money into the budget. This is also very often possible in life. You can miss when you pay your phone card and change your fast money, replace the wrong payment card. The mistakes of such a species are possible, compared to the fact that someone really wanted to help that political party, sharing the confidence that he had with them, so that there was some mistake in there, which someone at some level, logically, and without the Agency, recognized. And if the authorized party person was just waiting to recognize the Agency, here's the challenge to the Agency – which he pretended not to see, would he perhaps be more severe and rigorously punished? So there's no such thing as big manipulation if it's done normally, openly and transparently. It simplifies, because here in four positions there are a number of basics for which money can be turned into a budget. And, in the end, what we're looking for, if he's an anonymous donor, if he's a foreign citizen, etc., of course he could go into the budget. We think this solution is more favourable, it's simpler, it's easier to behave, because it wouldn't create a possible medetapa in which someone would either complain about the decision or prove that he did the right thing, and all of it would stall and who knows when and how the solution ends. We don't think it's logical or anyone's guide wouldn't particularly push this water, but I don't know how the legislator figured it out, so the amendment refused.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56094	It's been used 44 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56095	Very short, Mrs. Comic. This member has a title: "Obligation of payment of illegally acquired funds". All that is stated in the first two positions, not to quote, is already covered by Article 39(3) of the same Law proposal, where, as an integral part of the criminal penalty, the confiscation of those unlawfully acquired funds is assumed. By erasing the first two positions, nothing is lost, so before Article 12 and the previous members are banned, and the violation of the ban withdraws responsibility. The sanction is a violation, fine, Article 39(1) and Article 3(3). As it is written, it is in a kind of mental cohesion, because the situation is recognised that there is something illegal and that some legal course of return to the previous situation is given, and in broken provisions it is sanctioned by a violation. Irregularally weak, but I am not surprised, since it was not written by Mr Markovic, it was the secretary of the justice ministry who was in control.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56096	A minute and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56097	I'm just going to read our argument for a little while. We believe that an unwarranted solution is provided for in the text of the bill's proposal, that membership is accepted contrary to the provisions of Article 8(3) of the law at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this regard, we do not consider that there should be a difference between membership fees and contributions to be granted under Article 3. Why would a member of the political party have to touch the budget in the event of the party's lack of authority? The idea of legislator is transparency of funding political entities, not finding another way to potentially charge the budget. Let us not forget, however, that members of the parties are also taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia and that they are already donating the budget on the basis of everything and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56098	45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56099	We are now with a key member of the law, Article 16, where according to a basic proposal of the ruling coalition, the responsible and caring government proposes, however, that it be as of 1 July 2012, but that from public sources, hence, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for the regular work of political entities whose candidates have been elected as MPs, committees, etc., determines at the level of 0.15% of the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the expenditure of the autonomous province, that is, the expenditure of the budget of the units of local self-government. That's a suggestion. The law states: "The funds from public sources provided for financing the regular work of a political party whose candidates have been elected as MPs, committees", etc., 'determined at a level of 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget', noting that neither expenditure nor income is said, only 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is said, and now there is a significant million difference: "reduced for transfers to other levels of government and organisations of mandatory social security". So the base is wider because that 0.15% of the budget, which we call a public source, is not diminished by what is transferred to social giving and lower levels of government. The percentage remains the same, but another additional expansion of the base is being carried out. It is clear that the bill is now going on expenditures, which has not been the case so far. Those who question the difference that we raised in the principle debate, that according to this decision by the motionor, the Government, and applied to this year's budget, the amount called the grant for the regular work of political parties, which currently stands at 577 million dinars, would, according to the solution you propose, amount to a billion and 270 million dinars, please take a pen and paper into their hands and record three figures. The 2011 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on which I show haughtiness, immeasurableness, lack of understanding for reality, but also delayed application, which is my only comfort that this will never come into effect, is in the following: this figure 577 million, currently in the 2011 budget, is calculated as follows. As it writes 0.15% of the budget, it is extremely applied this year to the revenues of 726,4 billion dinars. When you subtract from that amount what is defined by law, and they are called transfers to other levels of government and amounts to 67,055 million dinars and you subtract transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, which are 274.2 million dinars, you get the next amount, so out of 726 billion revenues you subtract transfers to lower levels of government and social security, you get a base of 385 billion, times 0.15%, the exact figure that stands in the budget – 577 million dinars for regular work by political parties. If this reduction was not carried out and the law was applied as it says, at the expenditures that are in the budget, I'm talking about the bill adopted, and I'm showing on the 2011 case, the figure to which the percentage you predicted is 846,919,908,000 dinars. This means that the amount from 577 million would rise to a billion and 270 million. How did you explain it in the rejection of the amendment? This is how you said, "We have proposed a percentage of the appropriate importance that political activities have in every democratic society." Should I make a comment? If every newspaper called the Yellow Print is full of pillars every day to which this house is muddyed, which would have to be the bearer of the importance of political activity, if every MP and every assembly activity can be written about everything and everything, if MPs have five years' salary that they have not increased and if the board presidents, because they are civil servants, have a higher salary than MPs, the president of the Parliament, the president of the state, is this about demagogy, about MPs who have no food compensation in the course of work, who travel hundreds of kilometers? No, I will not stick to demagogy, I say openly – do not mock Serbia at this time and do not play favor with political activities! This amendment, which I have explained, really discredits the law to the greatest extent possible and compromises every participant in Serbia's political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56100	Four minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SRS that I will explain refers to the distribution of funds from public sources. Given that a representative of the Government or the Government has replied not to accept this amendment because, as they believe, it is a more correct solution as they have suggested, and that they did not think it would be more correct, so the argument does not stand at all. But here, I call on Mr Markovic, please, if he has any such authority, to pay attention to this amendment, especially what I think we need to keep in mind that this law is not a law that exists in the legal system entirely for itself, but is in a certain correlation with the Law on the selection of MPs. For us, the termology and everything else must be, in a way, harmonised. And I don't see why we should associate with the number of votes of funds that we receive from Serbia's budget or from an autonomous province or municipality, when votes in the elections are always translated into mandates, and if that's the case under the Law on the selection of MPs, I don't see why it can't stay that way and when it comes to this matter. The unit measures for us is the mandate won, not the number of valid votes, especially this difference that you make for those who got 5% of the votes in force and for those below 5%, so those who have 5% get 1.5% of the coefficient, and those who are below 5% of the coefficient 1. So you're not going here to equalize yourself according to the number of votes the amount of funds a participant will receive in the elections, but you're still making a difference as you have made a difference so far, and that's why this previous law was not good, because the current valid solution is that 30% is divided into equal parts, and 70% are proportional to the number of mandates won. That is why, for example, one political party MP who allegedly was in a coalition with a stronger partner, with a stronger political party in the elections, was given incomparably more than a party that won a large number of seats. I think you wanted to get over it, but you got into a trap and you made a problem again, but I would like to say, first of all, because of the public, that maybe those who are following this debate today seem to be talking about something exclusively about us MPs and that we're being kidnapped here for some state money -- it's not like that. This also concerns all citizens of Serbia, because they are primarily filling Serbia's budget and they have the right to control the work of political parties, representatives of political parties, or representatives of political parties in this home. It is only right and it is only normal that political parties are mostly financed from the state budget, because we are so sure that there is no influence of tycoon and of all those who would like, thanks to the magical way they have come or perhaps in the most honest way to the huge couples, to reach political influence through political parties. Of course, they do not need to stay out of political life, but let them bow down to some political party or let them establish their political parties, but they cannot buy, as we have so far had the case of buying MPs or buying a certain position in advance, when it comes to passing some laws. We have a really great experience of breaking the law, we have a great experience that we have looked through our fingers and we have not implemented the law and we have created a chain of wheels from which we will hardly get out, and these laws that we are now passing a post-festum to legalize certain situations like the Law on the selection of MPs, and here is the law on financing political parties, will lead us even more into one chaos, and everyone allegedly advocates the establishment of a stronger legal order and respect, how can we hear here from colleagues, especially this home, who really deserves to be respected by his name and to be on a high ranking of institutions that have a reputation in society. By passing such laws, by voting for such laws, we contribute precisely to what should not be happening, and that is that MPs will also be subject to further trade, which may seem to be their personal matter or personal disgrace, or consent to become a slave, but it will also be the distorted will of voters and the theft of voters' votes in elections. Because when they vote, you know, there was this discussion today -- whether they vote for a man, for a list, for politics, what happens if someone thinks differently after two years than they thought two years ago. I'm sorry, but politics gets votes here. So, one political party or coalition goes to elections with a particular platform, people vote for it, and they want such a policy to be implemented. The one who changed his mind after two years can't expect him to have respect for the electoral body, not to mention the consequences he should have. The fact that the parliamentary majority here held such a group, which was subsequently registered as a political party, that's something that's going to blow everyone's brains out, let me tell you. But they'll get their heads turned around the most, too, but I don't give a shit about them. I'm interested in what happens to those who go out to the polls and when they give us gifts of trust asking us what's going to happen in a year, two days, whether these people who have been given a mandate to go out to the market to say -- me 100,000, me 200, me three hundred thousand euros, and here we are mixed up here by benches, instead of, say, seven, 27 parliamentary clubs. Who did we cheat on? We tricked the citizens of Serbia. Then you wonder what every month or two days more people go into abstinence, or they won't go to elections. Well, if we don't do anything in this sense to restore voter trust, and also to restore trust in institutions, we can't expect anything else than to have a small number of people decide what's going to happen in the country or, worst of all, some factors on the side that will have a much easier position and a much easier job to get to such a small number of people and the various machinations, which we know, produce election results....
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56102	People's MPs, the time that is at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56103	I'd ask you to count on me from that time of authorized representative, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56104	That's all that's left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56105	That's right. What's this about? Under the existing law of the total amount of funds representing public sources, funds are shared by political parties represented in the Assembly, with 30% being divided into equal parts by the number of political parties present in the Assembly and the remainder by 70% by the number of mandates won. It's an existing solution and it's not good. We have to point that out, because it happens that one man from one political party is part of a coalition, and then one is equal in those 30% with political parties, regardless of how many MPs they have, so based on it gets some part of the funds, that one-personal political party, we had Zarko Korać, Batic, so in a similar situation are these wolves here, the two, three of them (Boris, be calm) and it needs to be corrected according to the principles of justice. There is no fairer way than the number of mandates won. And now I must warn the legislators of this law, what you have written in this law, and what you have written in the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, that only confirms Article 102 paragraph 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being discussed on the political party's winning mandates and there is no better way for a relative number of MPs, won over, to be more precisely won over by MPs, thus funding the regular work of the political party from public sources. On what level? The National Assembly, MPs; the province budget of the AP Vojvodina – according to the number of MPs the parties have there; from the budget of the units of local self-government – according to the number of committees and mandates the political party won in the elections. And you're introducing some corrective factors 1.5 to 5%, over 5% one. For what? In order to repeal the basic principle that must apply to the distribution of public funds for the regular work of the political party. I hope this has not been difficult to understand, and I urge you to support this amendment in the voting day. I am extremely pleased that a large number of members of the ruling parties have submitted amendments, and since you are now free from discipline, pressure, you are now free-minded, the owners of your mandates, I expect as a minimum that Marko Djurisic, Gordana Komic and some other DS MPs who have submitted their amendments, and these amendments have not been adopted by the promoter, that in the day of voting they will be free to vote for their amendments. It would be an elementary minimum to show how you got rid of these disciplines that stand in the National Assembly. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56106	Three minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56107	In the principle debate, we spoke quite of Article 17, because we believe that each MP has the same weight and that it is not right to lead this kind of corrective factor and to measure that the distribution of funds in money per MPs differs depending on whether someone has won up to 5% of the votes in force or over 5%. We believe that it is necessary to delete this position and that attitude 1 must be amended so that funds from public sources are provided for the financing of regular work to political entities that have MPs, MPs and committees, and that they are distributed in accordance with Article 16 in proportion to the number of MPs, MPs and committee members, so Article 2 of these coefficients and points 3 and 4 which treat coalitions and time of transfer by the Ministry of Finance would be deleted. We suggest that these points 3 and 4 become points 2 and 3. Since we talked a lot about it, I'll do it again as soon as I can. All relevant literature, all prominent authors dealing with the methodology of researching the cost of funding political campaigns agree that the cost of growth is not getting richer, but that the parties are becoming more expensive, but that the costs are being measured and accounted for by voters, or how many euros in the environment in which we live, in Europe, cost a single voter campaign and how much they cost and voters parliamentary political life after one term, or MP, but not as in the time of slave relations and the rental powers, the worker considered himself to be the head to be replaced, rather than an MP who really deserves to be financed, because he had already gained the right to have his mandate. And let him be embarrassed, let his descendants be ashamed, let someone spit on him, let him think for himself that he is right, but let the man think, and let all the things that with severe torment pass through inward hierarchy, that he may be on the list, that he may do the campaign, that he may do some party work, that he may also valorize it by addressing the voters as he did in the campaign. With one single sentence, let it not come to mind that I or Tomislav Nikolic or anyone who has never participated in political work, or conducted a campaign, or written programs, or went from committee to committee, or glued posters! I belong to those who have done so and have been a member of the highest authorities of the party. And no one can compare us at all with anyone who betrays anyone who thinks I'm a hired man who's got a mandate! Also, tomorrow, whoever enters the SNS list with his mandate as an MP, I will be obliged to open special accounts for him and that funds to finance his party work go to him, that he has a sense of community and his own opinion. Because if we stand for the individual, as a man who knows to think, who has a sense of it, that man must bear responsibility and be, if necessary, betrayed and betrayed, but he needs to know if he's representing his idea, and when he crosses that Rubicon, he needs to know who he's answering to. I advocate that the mandate belongs to the MP as we have passed the law here, but that our efforts and European achievements and the achievement of the Interparliamentary Union of the United Nations are consistently implemented through the financing of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56108	Since the time of the mandated deputy president of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 45 seconds have been used. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56109	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting that we interpret things differently, but for the sake of the public I would like to explain. Currently, still valid funding, which will likely be valid by July next year, is that the funds are shared, as we have heard, 30% of the funds equal to all parliamentary parties, and 70% of the funds are shared on the basis of the number of mandates won. In order to make that more clear, since that's a lot of work for both the media and the public whether they're "smaller" better off and whether they've gone "larger", the basis of the problem is just what was said very little, and that's what I said in the debate in principle. After the previous parliamentary elections, only five lists and three minorities entered this esteemed home, regardless, at one point the 23 parliamentary parties received money. So, those who have one MP, or all, on the basis of being a parliamentary party receive 830,000 dinars per month, and on the basis of each MP, another 150,000, which means that that parliamentary party that has only one representative in this house receives 984,000 dinars per month, almost a million dinars, and those who have more than 830,000 dinars, plus those 150, well, times as many as there are MPs. We'll agree that it's wrong to reward those who entered here in the larger coalition so that the money is divided into ten smaller entities, and perhaps the largest entity based on which they managed to get less. I do not want to get into it, I want to point out from the point of view of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, and all minority parties, who go out on their own, that it is unfair to treat those who went out on their own with their list and those who came in thanks to someone else, and they were rewarded in the same way. That is why we believe that this way of distribution of funds, that funds from public sources are shared on the basis of the number of votes won, so who is rewarded by voters' votes in the elections gets money. One of the most significant newspapers in this article that we are talking about, Article 17, is, in our opinion, the position of the 3rd member: ''The funds of Article 16 of this Law that is being given to a political entity who has held the elections as a coalition are divided by a coalition contract. ''So, the coalition itself, which as one entity had more small entities, will decide that it will reward those on its election list or are with that larger entity in the coalition. And as for the famous position 2, which we discussed in principle, and we are talking today, that the number of votes to 5% of the votes in force is multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5, and the number of votes above 5% by a coefficient of one, it may be difficult to imagine this imaginaryly how it will actually count, but all of us who participate in the elections, if we are a minority party, we will most likely win less than 5% of the votes, and if we want to enter parliament and we are not a minority party, we will win more than 5%. However, I want to point out once again, everyone's number of votes up to 5%, so depending on their turnout, it will be seen which number of votes will be multiplied by 1.5%, each, if someone won 30% of the votes, and this amount will be multiplied by the coefficient, and we really believe that this is the way the more balanced distribution of funds is provided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56110	Four minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has proposed to delete Article 18 because one elemental question is being asked – what is regular work, regular political work and the regular political activity of a political entity that you have defined as a group of citizens? If Article 18 is compared to Article 2 which should define the basic concepts contained in this bill, then you can read that a group of citizens is the form of voter association for joint participation in the elections. So, a group of citizens is one temporary community of people with only one interest, to participate in the elections together. When the election ends, groups of citizens, in fact, and legally, ceases to exist. The Serbian Radical Party is interested in the answer to the next question – is it in the opinion of the ruling coalition, is it in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a group of citizens legal and political entities in the same way as the political party? We don't think so. But through this particular article 18, perhaps in the best possible way, it shows all the senselessness of this bill. The government and the ruling coalition wanted to force God to equate political parties with groups of citizens and that is why you have avoided the name of the "political party" law rather than defined "political activities". Now you're trying, literally, to equate in all aspects of action a political party with a group of citizens, which is, of course, the opposite of this basic meaning of terms. Therefore, a group of citizens outside the election campaign for certain elections and out of the elections themselves, therefore, there is no after-election. Now the question is, what are you going to give money for - a group of citizens for some sort of regular political activity? And then we're actually going back to what he told you, Mr. Zoran Krasic, that you under the finance company... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, political activities, groups of citizens, in fact, you want to finance these capillaries of yours in the form of various NGOs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56112	Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this Article 18, and Article 2, to which the SNS has submitted the amendment, in practice, if it remains in this form as proposed, is almost impossible. Article 2 provides that accounts through which a group of citizens will carry out all the traffic will be regulated by a contract on the education of these political entities. When it comes to a group of citizens, it might be serious to talk at a local level, because there's some chance they'll pass the censorship. At the republican level, they only have a hypothetical chance, so it's almost impossible for them to open their accounts by contract, and then they don't pass the censorship. And then what? Simply, the SNS planned with its amendment that a group of citizens would have legal personality status while performing their political activity. How important this is you will see already in the next article, Article 19, which we have also submitted the amendment to. In order to explain that funds from non-donation budgets, rather than the original revenue from some of the actions carried out by a political entity are received as natural persons. That means, by name and by name, someone named Peric. That's impossible. How do you control these spending funds? And that's also impossible. Physical persons are not subject to legal regulations on the operation of economic operators. That means they don't have a final account, they don't have a report. How are they gonna handle it? These are the problems that I think the promoter didn't even consider. This is one of the most serious grudges in this law. We will meet in one very big problem if we do not accept this amendment, but in the first application of this law. You'll see what I'm talking about in the next article of the 19th.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56114	The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56115	We've reached this 19th citizen group member. It is said: "The funds for the financing of the regular work of a political entity are used to function and propagate the idea of a political entity and include: working with voters and membership. '"This first in a group of citizens is possible. With membership, I don't know if groups of citizens have members, otherwise they'd be political parties. Cost of Promotion, all right. "Reclam material" and that's fine. ''Publishment, cost of public opinion research, training, international co-operation, profit and employee fees. '"How will a group of citizens, a natural person, pay compensation to employees? How will he even report it in accordance with the Labour Act? How will he pay his contributions in accordance with the Labour Law? In point 2, the term 'Mundanes obtained from public sources amounting to at least 5% of the total funds' must be used for 'International Co-operation'. How will this international co-operation come true? With our amendment, we predicted: ''The funds for regular work collected from private and private sources can also be used by the political entity for charity... '"The government refused. Let me remind you that the SNS had one serious activity in providing assistance. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to give a suspicious face a heads-up. This isn't about a prison recipe, a swastika's butt, or anything like that. Therefore, only a few months ago, the SNS collected funds from its members to assist those who suffered during the King’s earthquake. (President: Two minutes. ) Therefore, you want one such humanitarian action, one such law to prevent. Technically, it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56116	Thank you. National MP, you only have two minutes at your disposal to explain the amendment. On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56117	Article 19 speaks of the use of funds to finance regular work and, in its first position, provides that funds to finance the regular work of political entities are used to function and promote the idea of a political entity and include working with voters and membership, promotion costs, advertising material and publications, public opinion research costs, training, international co-operation, the cost of earnings and remuneration of employees, communal costs, as well as costs for other similar activities. This has about covered everything that is necessary to finance from the funds that political parties receive from the budget. Then we have something amazing, in which way you want to influence work and shape party work. You say in the proposal that funds received from public revenues of at least 5% must be used on an annual basis, must be used for professional training and training, and for international co-operation and working with membership. Where is the right of those who wrote this law and where the right of the assembly majority, who will vote for this law, to determine in this way and in this way affect the autonomy of political parties, political parties, entities, as you said, how to use the funds. Why do you think you can make someone spend 5% of their resources on professional training, training, etc. Everyone knows, if they need to spend 1%, if they have a greater need, they'll spend 21% and that's absolutely within the jurisdiction of the political party that gets the funds. Then, an unmistakable explanation, he says - the amendment cannot be accepted because by erasing this provision it speaks of entities using funds for professional training... (President: National MPs, you only have two minutes to explain the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56118	The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56119	Is that right, Madam Chairman? Article 20 is submitted to the election campaign funds, and I think that in this article we are introducing some important newspapers, some newspaper that the bill promoter hadn't predicted in fact and above all, of course, that consistent concept defined by the SNS, which is that we are related to incomes, that means opportunities for citizens and businesses, and not for expenditures, it's contained in this article of the law. Also, in the argument of the amendment of this article, we have given, in my opinion, a rather important argument for the continuation of this practice and by not accepting the amendments to the SNS we have even double-separation when it comes to transfer funds. Because you have expenditures in the Republic's budget, transfer funds are allocated to local self-government, the province, and also to those funds, so you re-separate that percentage to finance political parties. And we think that's another argument. But what's also important to say is that in this second part of the amendment, we have predicted a reduction of these funds from 0.01 to 0.75, and what the promoter did not predict is the fact that we can come to a situation that one National Assembly has failed to elect a government after its constitution and that after a few months you have new elections. We believe that, in this case, the political party, since they treated citizens unseriously, should not have financial resources, that is, from the budget in that case, should not allocate financial resources, this is one addition of this member, and I believe that this possibility should also have been provided for by this law, but, unfortunately, that is the proposal. (President: Time, two minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56120	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 21. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56121	In addition to the essential remarks of the SRS in recent years, especially on party pre-election activities, we expected this law to solve the problems we have in practice, especially in pre-election activities and election activities. We have also made several amendments, here is one of the amendments that represents a formal-legal addition of this bill, however, this amendment has not been adopted. Article 21 refers to the distribution of funds from public sources. For the sake of the public, I will read it: ''The funds referred to in Article 20 of this law amounting to 20% shall be allocated in equal amounts to the applicants of the declared electoral lists within five days of the announcement of the electoral list. "As the termological declaration of the electoral list is incomplete, vague and legal, it needs to be changed. We have suggested that instead of "proclaiming the electoral list", the termology replaces and adds "a solution to the announcement of a summary electoral list", because it is thus defined by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I will now read to you here the opinion and attitude of the Government of this amendment. "The government does not accept the amendment because the solution proposed in the amendment is not precise enough." Look, what's proposed by the bill is precise, here's just to comment very briefly. Announcing the electoral list, what does it mean to declare the electoral list? How does the electoral list itself be declared or done on the basis of a certain legal rule and is done by the competent state authority? What does your interpretation, which you gave here in your opinion, mean, it's not accurate? Why isn't it accurate? Yours is more accurate? Obviously this law was not done by Minister Markovic, because he worked and participated in... Thank you. (President: Two minutes. [[Applause]] Thank you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56122	The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56123	I would ask for a little silence, these are rare occasions when Mrs. Komic submits amendments without the government accepting her amendment. Mrs. Comic, I have to defend you, really. I expect in the day to vote that you will..
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56124	No one's attacking me, MP, so there's no need to defend me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56125	No, no, I'm defending you. There's an emphasis here that I'm defending you, not who's attacking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56126	In order for you to defend me, someone has to attack me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56127	There's an emphasis on defense here, and now you're going to hear it. You've submitted an identical amendment to Milorad Buh. So your amendment is identical. Why is it identical? Well, Mrs. Comic participates in the elections and she knows when the list is delivered, but by 15 days before the elections, everyone delivers the lists, so the final number, how many lists, can be completed only when a solution on the announcement of the lists is reached. And that's what Mrs. Comic wrote, but you can see her amendment didn't pass by accident, because it's identical to Mr. Buha's amendment. And, of course, I'm defending you, Mrs. Comic. You see those who worked in the Working Group, they have no idea what the election process is. It's Radio Resistance, it's done by some from abroad by system all it's allowed to do is beat the pro-European parties. Well, you can steal mandates, you can pay out of the budget the White Ship, the Chirk and Shojic, anything is possible, everything is allowed and Mrs. Comic has seen that there's some kind of whistle. Please, from the ruling coalition that in the day to vote, at least you appreciate Mrs. Komic's experience and give mass support to this "best" amendment for today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56128	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, one minute and fifty-five seconds have been used. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56129	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, another principled push for the SNS to limit the power of companies, private businesses to politics, political parties, which is essentially SNS's pledge against corruption and that, I would say, systemic corruption. So, we have submitted to this article the amendment that we wanted to limit the possibility of financial assistance from one political party by legal persons, we have stuck to that 'physical persons' in the election campaign and that it is five average earnings, and that seems to us to be something that is optimal, realistic, and that would guarantee, in the end, that all political actors in that election campaign are more or less equal. In the amendments that we have made, we have also engaged in eliminating legal persons and making this process of financing political parties as transparent as possible. We're sorry there wasn't any more understanding. I think this is a broader interest, an interest in society and some future development of our society, not just political parties and the financing of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56130	The 22nd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56131	Dear fellow Members of the People, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 22 concerns the financing of an election campaign from private sources, i.e. the proposal for a law that natural and legal persons can give funds for spending an election campaign up to the maximum prescribed amount in Article 10, i.e. natural persons up to 20 average personal incomes, legal persons up to 200 average salaries. We think you've missed something here, that you've forgotten something. There are political entities, i.e. political parties, which are very thriftfully related to the money they receive from the state or from their members. For years, they have been saving to fulfill their post, or to go to the polls, and to get as many votes as possible. We therefore suggested adding Article 3, this article, which would read: "The political entity can finance funds from the account to finance the regular work of Article 18 of this Law to use to finance the costs of the election campaign on condition", of course, "to transfer them to a special account to finance the costs of the election campaign under Article 24 of this Act. ''It does not stand your argument that you reject this amendment, because you feel that there should be a demarcation of one account and another. It's absolutely, as you say, transparent. You can see everything. From one account a million, two, three goes to this election bill. We believe that in this way, not only does the illogicalness available to political parties have been eliminated, but one great injustice. On the other hand, we have the impression that you wanted the political parties to take loans from banks, which we know under what conditions give credits. (President: Two minutes. )... which is the interest we just have to pay back, and again, where do we get it back from rather than from those funds that we get from the state and get from the state budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56132	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was filed by a group of 21... National MP Zoran Krasic, you want a word, go ahead and apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56133	I wanted to do this amendment to this member, because it's very important. Be careful, if the political party was thrifty, hardworking, neat and over four years collected funds in its regular account, funds for regular work, to finance its election campaign with these funds, according to the legislator, it is forbidden, we do not know why. However, here we have been organised by the public hearing of this bill and during this public hearing and discussion I have asked the president of the task force in strict terms, is it possible that so many ignorant people have not predicted this, and they say, that is understood. Now we're getting a response from the government where, about like this -- from public funds you're going to get for the election campaign part, the rest of it has to be private sources. What if someone can't secure private sources? Then he must be in charge of the bank, that she gives him credit, that the loan is placed on the bill for the election campaign, so if, as a result of the election, she wins the funds so she can repay the loan, she will return, if not, without any restrictions, he can pay it back for two, three years. You stimulate lawlessness, you stimulate something unwarranted. You simply force the situation to fall into the claws of some banks. What if he doesn't want to finance and grant a loan to a political party? You don't care about that. You've said the word "mouth" nicely, because architecturally it doesn't match "Mosce Business Centre". You've said "Luku," these others, you're providing funds and you think with this law that someone won't be able to stop you from buying the next election. Well, we know well who you are, what you do, what you do, and whose order you work on!
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56134	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 15 seconds have been used. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56135	Thank you. By amendment to Article 23, we wanted to change his first position to make it clearer and clearer. However, we have received an answer saying that what we have suggested is less precise than the solution. For the sake of the public, the proposal reads: "The cost of the election campaign is the cost of political activities during the election campaign." That's what the promoter said. And we wanted it to look like, "The cost of the election campaign is the cost of the political entity's activities to present candidates and the election programme from election day to election day to election day. "We respected the construction of a sentence at the beginning, so this last is not pleonasm in our first attitude. The public can see what's clearer now. And not only is it clearer and more clear, but it defines at least two important things, which is what kind of activity should be financed and how limited it is. Because as it is going along with the current proposal, it could happen, since some parties really cover the entire territory of Serbia, since there is a possibility that the elections will happen at different levels at a different level, and at the same level, let's say, local elections in several cities at the same time, and will mean that the centralities of these parties are in continuous activity. Whether they are in labour, regular or electoral activity, and what period they could relate to, is unknown. It could be more clearly defined if you accepted a amendment like this. It's just, I don't see a reason, is it a reading or a bad will, that such a change of one segment of a member isn't accepted? Do not insist in the media that you do not have the co-operation of opposition parties in some common defined objectives. Because it's clear that you're doing it all on your own and on your own. It is obvious that you are not ready for any communication and any joint moves that would look like a joint concerted operation in this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56136	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56137	Mrs. Comic, it is not easy to notice how much the government in rejecting our amendments writes everything and everything. Approximately, the reasoning written by the words like this – Mr. Krasic, we cannot accept your smart amendment because of our stupid solution. Now let me explain that to you. Mrs. Komic, please read what I asked for with the amendment. I asked for the words "private sources" to be deleted in the opinion of Article 24. And, as it says, "The funds collected from private sources for regular work" means, they are on the account for regular work, "a political entity can use for election campaign costs. ''Wait, you just rejected Mrs. Pop Lazic's amendment, saying that the election campaign can be funded through an election account, from public funds, 20%, as far as you're west, and 80% you're gonna have to warn, you're gonna have to transfer from private sources, and the private source is borrowing or contributions, and no one is allowed to give you contributions. Who can contribute to a political party after this law? No one dares any political party to contribute yes, not because of rematchism, but not to be drawn by B 92 and these different others. You see how much the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic has confirmed my thesis – Mr Krasic, your smart amendment cannot be accepted because it is a very stupid solution to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So now I'm supposed to be thrilled that you've given an opinion? Mrs. Komic, when Mr. Buha's amendment and yours were rejected earlier, they wrote something similar – your amendment is not bad, but our stupid solution is better. I expect you to tear them up on the day of the vote, I expect, Mrs. Comic, to use your authority, to separate a 126, to support you, to vote you, if they won't, even if they do, where you hide when you sometimes discuss. Well, that's a good solution. You see, I praise you, Mrs. Comic, so I hope you have that in mind and that you no longer punish radicals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56138	That thing with each other isn't in any kind of relationship. So 11 seconds has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56139	I will briefly repeat our pledge that the electoral guarantee as an institute that needs to serve some purification, some seriousness or some higher level of political action of the electoral process itself is simply considered inadequate and inappropriate. We are the position that the introduction of an electoral guarantee prevents all political competition from taking part in the political struggle, and that it is unacceptable that your argument given in the rejection of the amendments, and it is said that the Government is of the opinion that the laying down of the electoral guarantee, in case a political entity intends to use funds from public sources to cover the costs of the election campaign, is necessary, in order to avoid the misuse of funds from public sources identified for that purpose. I have a brief and clear question, and why is the government only dealing with abuse of funds from public sources for this purpose, are there the greatest abuses? Why didn't you vote to talk, not to adopt, but to talk about amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, where the abuses of funds from public sources are huge, measured by billions of dinars, and only for public procurement reported, and for procedures that are not done at all, not a word. You are initiating a procedure that will discriminate against participants, a procedure that is inconclusive, and I will only show you in one detail. The certificate, which means the electoral guarantee, about the deposited money or the bank guarantee, or the state securities of value, or mortgage, should be handed over to the Ministry of Finance Affairs. And who will give evidence that can be treated with confirmation? Is RIK, is there a safe where he'll keep the money, does he have a money-counting machine? Well, of course, from some experience, they might have, because there's been a lot of things going on. Tell me, please, how long does the mortgage process take, so that someone might be in the course of the election announcement to deal with the provision of bail or other actions that should enable him to participate in the election process? This institute is not intended to avoid abuse of funds, but is intended to prevent political competition and existing and some possible participation in an equal race. You're trying to tie other people's legs, and you get an advantage in starting with an election guarantee. We're absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56140	55 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group's time. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 25. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56141	This amendment actually corrects the error contained in Article 25. In the event of a declaration of the electoral lists, no one knows, no one can know in advance how much these financial resources are to be set out in Article 21, because of the number of electoral lists declared, or the number of candidates, depends on how many parts are to be divided by 20%, as referred to in Article 21(1), or the amount of 50% referred to in Article 21(2). Also, this amendment only binds the electoral guarantee to the amount received prior to the announcement of the election results, i.e. 20% and 50% respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56142	Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56143	In the follow-up to this Article 25, you have here provided that, in the third position as you have written, the 'election guarantee' is to be handed over to the Ministry of Finance Affairs, or to the competent authority of the administration of the autonomous province or the unit of local self-government. We have amended that and predicted that it is the means which are subject to the electoral guarantee because we intend to correct the error that is obvious in the text of this Article 3 of Article 25, because it is completely unclear in this proposal what is the 'confirmation', what is it confirming, who is the betrayal and what is the legal range of that confirmation? This is completely unclear, inaccurate, I can see in your explanation, it's said, you don't accept the amendment, because the solution to the bill is more precise. So you obviously didn't have any serious reason not to accept the amendment, but from the beginning of our debate on this law, here, again, to remind you that you are making such bad proposals, because you are not doing it alone, but because you are fulfilling EU orders. If that were the case, it is evidence that today there is no minister with us that the Government has appointed to speak to the MPs about the amendments and, possibly, that there is, perhaps in some normal communication we could clarify some things and that, possibly, some other amendment would be adopted, in order for the text of this law to be corrected. That's impossible, given that essential proposal relating to the allocation of funds received from the budget, which is... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56144	Two minutes, thank you. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56145	Since we have requested the erasure of the electoral guarantee, such as those alleged guarantees to avoid abuse, Article 26 should be deleted in our view, as it is in direct contact with Article 25.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56146	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 26. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56147	This is an amendment of a purely technical nature, and when someone, in principle, spoke about this law and pointed out who was all involved in the draft law on the financing of political activities or political parties, as we say, I thought there was no need for such engagement, but, behold, we have already entered the third decade of a multi-party system in Serbia, and we have not been able to make a law on the financing of political parties. I've been thinking all the time about how elections could be held in Serbia, and that it costs the citizens of Serbia, or its taxpayers, the least. I've grouped that possibility into two categories. The first group is to make two decisions. The first decision would be to apologize to the RTS Management Board for the election so far, another decision could enter the same group, make a decision on the eternal life of Boris Tadic, and there is no need for elections. Another category or group to be able to hold elections, and to cost very little Serbian citizens, is to have some political Gandhi appear, who will steal a number of mandates, go to the square, Miskovic, Beka and say – help me now that I'm taking part in the conquest of power, you won't pay for the government, and I'll free you from paying for electricity, even, when I come to power. Now, these are some of my thoughts so that elections can be held in the next period in Serbia and only a little cost to the citizens of Serbia. It's very interesting here that the government didn't have the hearing to accept an amendment that was of a technical nature. Since there is a commitment for political parties that participate in the elections and do not win one percent of the votes in force, or if it is about minority parties, they do not win 0.2% of the votes in force, they are obliged to return it from 20% of those who are financed after the elections are confirmed. We asked in the amendment to specify the amendment, to specify this position of Article 2 of Article 26...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56148	Two minutes, thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I think it is really incorrect that this debate is taking place in this atmosphere. We saw the minister perhaps for 15 minutes here in this room, he spent more time in the halls and in the congregation restaurant, than here in the hall where he belongs, trying to find the best legal solution with the MPs, so that the citizens of Serbia could finally see some benefit from the laws that we are making in this assembly. You have already been reminded several times of the minister's obligation to attend, even by representatives of the ruling coalition. Here, I'm taking another chance to warn you, but not just to keep your mouth shut, but to really ensure what is your duty and duty, which is to ensure the minister's presence. As for the amendment I submitted, therefore, the amendment could also be accepted, and that was something that should not have been disputed. In fact, Article 27(1) says that political entities are obliged to conduct bookkeeping on their incomes and expenditures. We have asked that Article 27, paragraph 1, after that text be added the words "so as to organise the conduct of these transactions independently or to entrust the contract to the organisation authorised in terms of accounting and audit regulations. "What is noticeable is that these laws are growing more and more instead of their own forces, which is probably perfectly normal, if all political parties claim to have the best experts in all areas, people in their own ranks you persistently direct parties to banks, certain businesses, authorized accountants and everything else. In one part it is necessary to have an authorised accountant, but you will admit that for jobs, such as collecting membership fees and these most basic and most banal things, it just isn't... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56150	Two minutes, thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56151	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, this Article 27, for the sake of public speaking, refers to the obligation to keep accounts and records, where political entities, which have representatives in representative bodies and registered political parties, should submit and keep accounting records of origin, height and structure of income and expenditure. This is the essence of Article 7, but Article 5 provides that the content and manner of keeping the records referred to in this Article shall be governed by the Director of the Agency closer. Our amendment refers to the fact that the words "director of the Agency" are changed in the word "Agency", because both under the Constitution and under the State Administration Act, the Director cannot be authorized to adopt regulations. A dispute has already been initiated before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the same provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, so that practically such a solution in this position certainly poses a potential risk that this can be annulled in the Constitutional Court and those individual acts brought by the Director of the Agency. This amendment of ours refers to a possible avoidance of such a situation and we absolutely do not know why this change was a problem, because only a possible problem can pass. We believe this amendment should be accepted. You will see that in the next amendment we have similar remarks regarding the same situation as the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56152	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28th of the amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56153	You see, I just gave an explanation because in this article it repeats itself similarly. The member refers to writing a report on the cost of the election campaign, where it is predicted again that a report on the costs of the election campaign is being made following the completion of the election campaign. In doing so, it is again similar to that of Article 27, as regards bookkeeping and records, and here, too, the cost report should be prepared by the Agency’s director. Our amendment again refers to the words "director" of the Agency being replaced by the word "agency". Not to repeat an explanation that is absolutely the same as that of the previous member I explained, because the practical arguments are absolutely identical. I repeat, once again, this was absolutely not something that would have gone too far into the essence of the law, not to accept the amendment, and really avoid unnecessary potential complications that could arise in the event of the examination of the constitutionality of this position of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56154	The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56155	Article 31 – 'authorised person', the SNS has shown dissatisfaction with the fact that the deadline given in this law is very short for the application of the authorised person to the Agency. You know, a three-day deadline is inappropriate for us. We predicted a 15-day deadline. We don't see why one of these has set too short a deadline, because you have a fact that this law doesn't define the time for which a political entity, a political party should determine an authorised person, and when it does, it's a three-day deadline when it has to report to the Agency that authorized person. There are a number of technical things that need to be determined when it comes to an authorized person. Therefore, at the time of its appointment, the minutes should be drawn up, a possible act authorising it to make a decision. These are all some technical things that need to be done before one political subject is ready to hand over this act to the Agency, which determines the authorised person. We find it extremely unnecessary to give such a short notice. As for this second act, which is also very important, it is the Agency's right to control a political entity. What we expect and what we expected you to have an understanding of, is that, at least to that political entity in which the Agency's control is carried out, one explanation is whether it's a regular control, whether it's an emergency, on application, to make sure that the right is not being misused, and especially we from opposition political parties fear it, and we felt it was perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56156	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56157	Mrs. Komic, if this agency should be something that looks like a state body, then they must be not only empowered, but also trained to do this job in Article 32, which is: direct, unlimited access to accounting records, documentation and so on. I don't know where they get the opportunity to hire the right experts and institutions. They can hire CIA experts, experts who control Cyprus, etc. I guess the purpose of the Agency is not only to be authorized, but to be trained to exercise that financial control. If she's supposed to hire an audit institution and give them the authority to do this job on behalf of the Agency, then that's not the purpose of this law. It'll be a good valve to launder money. You have seen yourself in this law that they are seeking additional funding from the budget for these activities because they believe that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act does not have enough resources for their work. It's just that this isn't possible. It is not possible to pass on to an institution, to a legal person, to do something that is public authority. But anything is possible with you. Why? The law was written by NGOs for themselves. You'll make a mistake again like when you chose Chupic as president of the Anti-Corruption Agency Council, that Cupic of the Resistance, you know who it's about. What the government wrote, I'm just embarrassed to read.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56158	Since the time of the authorised representative, a minute and 50 seconds have been used. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56159	In Article 32, under the position of the SNS, we have one final illogicality, in paragraph 2, you have a provision that says, "A political entity is obliged to, at the request of the Agency, within a time limit set by the Agency, which may not be longer than 15 days," the Agency undertakes, in the follow-up of that position, not to exceed 15 days, ''deliver all documents and information necessary for the Agency to carry out the tasks prescribed by this law. ''So we have one full independence of the Agency when it comes to controlling the work of political entities, except that this one in some way commits to how long these longest deadlines can be prescribed. It's extremely inappropriate. It's unclear. Is that the lack of trust of a legislator in the Agency? If the Agency is not able to do these jobs, then it is necessary to carry out some staff changes or any changes if necessary in the Agency itself, but to prescribe the Agency, to give it the freedom to control the work of political parties, and to give it the opportunity to set a deadline, which is said to be 15 minutes for some documents to be delivered, but that deadline cannot be longer than 15 days, it is extremely inappropriate and unclear. We intervened in this sense that, eventually, that deadline must be set as some minimum deadline, because there could be abuse in practice itself, that political parties cannot obtain the requested documentation within such a short time period as the Agency determines. In this regard, it was necessary to intervene in this article of the law, not only to restrict the Agency, which is completely autonomous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56160	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56161	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given the fact that this proposal of the law really agrees in administrative terms with the process and system of funding of political parties, the SRS considers that the deadline defined in Article 32(2) therefore cannot be longer than 15 days when it comes to the Agency's request that the political entity deliver all necessary documentation relating to the authority of the Agency relating to the control of this law is too short. We're afraid that in practice it can cause major problems. Instead of this formulation for more than 15 days, we have proposed another wording of "shorter", therefore it cannot be shorter than 15 days, because we thought that political parties, or political entities should be left with a slightly longer period, given how you say in the bill – all the necessary documents and information are numerous and in some situations will not be able to collect within the time period that you have proposed, which cannot be longer than 15 days. On the other hand, the question arises as to what the purpose of prescribing that the Agency has some control powers, since practice in Serbia has shown that the Anti-Corruption Agency mainly serves as a façade of the regime, and in essence its views and opinions are not taken into account at all. This is best shown when the Agency stated its position "no one can perform two functions at the same time". However, when the Agency published a list of republican and regional MPs of the DS and its coalition partners who perform two, three, five, six functions, the government said "it does not touch us, it does not oblige us". Practically, the rest is that, contrary to the Constitution, the opposite of the law, the opposite opinion of the Agency, and today a certain number of officials performs at the same time more than two functions, which is contrary to the applicable regulations, so that in this case the same thing can happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56162	The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, and joint MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56163	Article 33, whose erasure we have asked for, speaks of the means needed to carry out the election campaign's cost control tasks for the President of the Republic, hence, nowhere in the financing of political activities, in defining the concepts, do not speak of this part of political life, except here where the control of these activities is allegedly carried out and the funds for elections for MPs and for the President of the Republic are allocated to no less than 1% for that type of election. We have calculated that at least 8.5 million are, therefore, no less than 8.5 million dinars for this purpose, but who knows to what extent it can be more, without a criterion that determines why more and why, within what time, what procedure. We find it entirely inappropriate for the Anti-Corruption Agency to have the impression that you want to compromise in the same way that it was done with all the bodies that were to deal with the fight against corruption from 2000 to today. They changed the powers, the deadlines in which they should have taken over certain jobs, records, changed their offices, addresses, the composition of people, but at no time in full form either one of those bodies, whatever it was called, did not get the strength to work, because there was no political will. Right now, we're facing "mombing, crowded table" syndrome, which you're doing to the Anti-Corruption Agency. I have respect for an independent institution that needs to do an important cost control job in the election campaign, but can an institution with so much jurisdiction, which has already been compromised by its decision that no one can perform a double function ridiculed by reality, have the authority to order anyone else? And whose members are people who perform still double functions than political entities within the meaning of this law. How can the Agency order them to do anything, so whatever money we make out of their budget for it? So, the problem is being dishonest and wanting this organization to do anything in terms of some more organised performance on a political scene, some major control. And it's not an unfounded question, and what someone says, "Europe," I ask the same thing others ask -- is the Anti-Corruption Agency equipped with people, are they trained, and what are the consequences in the event of a lack of reports or violations of regulations in another way? It's a quote from those we want to look up to. We have a lot more evidence between us than they can offer us. Well, is it enough just to say – we will allocate some funds, and in the talks when this law was done, Djordje Vukovic said that one municipality needed between six and seven thousand euros to control the cost of the elections. Multiply with the number of municipalities, take regular and extraordinary elections, I ask you – do we have the means to create this kind of confusion, and then we establish institutions that are confusing and these knots are supposed to disintegrate, and we do not provide them primarily with political determination to divulge with phenomena that are clearly negative and compromising for all of us? Because no one has convinced us that they will be able to do it, nor will any part-time co-workers be able to do it. We believe it is necessary to delete Article 33.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56164	Since the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 15 seconds have been used. The title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 34th amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group and joint MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56165	Almost no one could have missed this illogical solution by which two independent regulatory bodies, independent institutions formed in the National Assembly for a specific type of business, cannot give each other jobs, especially in a manner and in a dictionary, as this should, for example, be controlled by the Agency by a political entity, where it says – can come at any time, all reports must be delivered to it as far as possible within three days and that the request for control, for example, accounting records, is neither explained nor explained. Can someone knock on your door, tell you why he's here? Is all criminals in advance guilty or is there something called the presumption of innocence in political life? And it's a little bit of that, but you're even giving the Anti-Corruption Agency the right to impose some "on-demand" issues on the State Audit Institution. Do you remember my fellow Members, when I once requested, on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, that the National Bank of its statistical data available to the Republic Bureau of Statistics or the body responsible for statistics, as it was called in the law, so it was not allowed, because the National Bank is a special institution and in the name of independence of its specific capacities and costs for obtaining some documents, data, it turned out that it could not? Therefore, co-operation is necessary, the mutual co-operation of all organ institutions, to come up with something called a clean political field, but, where that is, I could say, harmlessly, as a data that needs to be processed statistically, we couldn't. Well, wait, is this the same country? Are we the same people? Is one government proposing these laws? Let us preserve the reputation of the DRI that has indeed made some shift, but also help the Anti-Corruption Agency to establish rules of its work, not on, do not resent the term, "cooborate way", but on legal, respecting the hierarchy of state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56166	Since the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group, 25 seconds have been used. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Messenger of the People, Munir the Traturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56167	Dear colleagues, I would just like a little attention, to read my amendment, because I need support to understand this amendment, with the intention of not happening again or to make some mistake that we would have to correct at one of the next sessions. "The state audit institution shall carry out the audit procedure of the political entity in accordance with the regulations governing the establishment, part-round and jurisdiction of the institution. The Agency may, after the control of the financial reports of political entities has been carried out, provide the institution with information on the facts it has established by acting in accordance with Article 32 of this Act. ''The point and intention of this amendment is to try to re-evaluate the request by the Agency to order the DRI to exercise control, or audit. In fact, Article 35. The State Audit Act is governed by the powers that all entities are obliged to control during the year. When it has jurisdiction, then the State Audit is allowed to audit other public institutions and political parties as well as its own. In this case, I have the impression that if an amendment is accepted or adopted requiring the loss of DRI independence, in fact, this initiative, the independence of state audit, comes into conflict, I say, joint co-operation between state authorities and state institutions. I'd just like to remind you that we had a situation in this House where the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner responded to our objections in the Assembly's regulation, so we had to make amends to the control of the report by these two institutions. Honestly, I don't think there was a place here in article 34, because everything, and what I've suggested, others who have proposed to Article 34, has been regulated by Article 35. The DRI Act. But the intention was, when it wasn't already accepted on the board, to rephrase some other amendments. It is only my intention to come to the best solution together, because it is a very important institution that we have chosen here and voted on, their competences and tasks ahead of us, which we will decide in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56168	Since the time of the parliamentary group, a minute and 50 seconds have been used on Article 34 of the amendment have been submitted by Parliament MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the 38th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and joint MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56169	Article 38, that's already a section relating to criminal acts. Otherwise, we have submitted a series of amendments to this section, because we believe that this is very badly worked out and that it is contrary to a series of laws, the Constitution itself, and some international conventions. But, in particular, when it comes to this crime, when it comes to "intention," the SNS's view is that the intention is very hard to prove, that the intention itself is very problematic in this article itself, which is a big problem, that is the description of the part itself to get to these penalties that are not so small. So in the first position it's from three months to three years, and in 2, it doubles, from six months to five years, it's been threatened with jail time, which is not naive at all. What I'd still like to say is that we're missing the name of the crime itself. We're finding a crime that's quite problematic. It shouldn't even be found in this text of the law. It seems to me, however, that it should regulate criminal legislation in a more complete way, and the very end of this article, which refers to the Prosecution of Organized Crime, which should prosecute such cases, is, in our opinion, problematic, because it is the individuals who are possibly committing a crime, so it is illogical that the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which in its name gives the knowledge that it is a larger group of people who have joined themselves to commit a crime. It is therefore inappropriate for it to process cases like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56170	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: No, I want to speak by amendment. People's MP, you're not an applicant for the amendment. (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the place: What is it? The Messengers of the people asked what was the matter: the messenger of the people, who follows the work of the session of the National Assembly, did not follow the work of the session of the National Assembly. That was it. Well, I ask MP Nemanja Sarovic to follow closely or to the secretary of the club or the deputy or general secretary of inquiry which is the amendment to the search. People's MPs Zoran Popovic and Nemanja Sarovic, do you intend to violate the Rules of Procedure or do you consider it a funny throw from the bench? (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: They intend to violate the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic says they intend to break the Rules of Procedure. I warn you, the MP who throws himself out of the bench means that he will suffer punishment for his conduct contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I did not throw. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out the bench: "I didn't throw"! The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56171	Members of the SRS in the debate in principle, as well as in the debate under the amendments, have mostly expressed their opinion on this law on financing political activity or financing political parties, as it is more acceptable for us. We feel that legal provisions should be respected no matter what we think of it. We haven't even intervened when it comes to a member of 38 who's also setting up a crime and talking about criminal provisions. We have not intervened in the first two positions where it is said to be a criminal offence if an entity that finances a political party is hidden and if those funds are misused, that is the 1st position, and in the 2nd position it is said that the penalty between six months and five years is threatened, if those funds go beyond a million and a half. In the case of a criminal offence referred to in Articles 38, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the special department of the competent court shall act. Here, Mr. Cosic, since you're at the Justice Department, there's been a reform of the judiciary for ten years, and more intensively in the last two years and as far as it's been, nowhere, and you're already taking a blow, like that, to justice. Well, how will the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime handle if a person or a person makes a contribution, it is a matter of private financing, of a thousand dinars and a political party or a responsible party in a political party to miss out on the name of that person? And then he's going to go to the DA's office for organized crime or another court of law?- I'm sorry. In addition to the privatisation done as it is, in addition to a number of other malfeasances that exist, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the jurisdictional court department or a special court should deal with that problem if, for example, someone donated a political party with a thousand dinars and it wasn't recorded?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56172	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member refers to the punishment of political parties. The 1st stance reads, "The fine of 200,000 to 200,000 dinars will punish the political party for the violation, if so," which states in 19 points all the violations provided for by this member. Our amendment refers to these words being replaced by the words "political subject", because we believe that this is an appropriate term. Why? You see, in this very law that we have been discussing all day, practically, in addition to political parties, we have coalitions and groups of citizens, and when all the members of this law are considered, it is seen that even though groups of citizens and coalitions have the right legal subjectivity to obtain financial resources, to have their own account, to write financial reports, to make payments through these accounts, and to give them all in that legal traffic and the legal position of the legal person. Well, this is the 1st position of this member that we have in fact an unequal relationship, where literally these criminal provisions apply only to political parties, and not to coalitions or groups of citizens, therefore, they are not placed in an equal position with political parties. That is why we believe that the constitutional principle of equality would be maintained for all before the Constitution and the Law, especially what the law provides, that it should be changed and that an adequate term, well, instead of "political parties" stands for "political entities".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56174	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56175	Here's to Article 39. The bill is clearly visible and can be seen that the SRS MPs were absolutely right when they proposed that this be called the law on the financing of political parties. Article 39 says "The fines between 200,000 and 200,000 dinars will punish the political party for the violation... "Enough of the arguments and, according to your writing of the bill, that this law is called, however, we have submitted an amendment to Article 39(1), which reads as follows: 'Accept funds contrary to Article 8(3) of this Law'. Let me remind you that Article 8(3). The law regulates the payment of membership fees from members of political parties, so it is said that if membership amounts to up to 1,000 dinars per year, then it can be paid in cash, with the signing of the receipt and from whoever receives the money and from whoever gives the money. I must remind you that the SRS has about 500,000 members and that is one partner of Serbian citizens. The membership fee is the same for each member, whether he is a senior party official, whether someone who participates in the exercise of state functions or mayors or the president of municipalities or members, the membership on an annual basis is 100 dinars. We were very practical here. You don't need to fill out any receipts, you don't need to fill anything, we did this, look how nice it looks, we did a chart that shows exactly what membership is in a year. And that's the best solution. We think that we would be practical if such a way to pay membership fees under 1,000 dinars was regulated in this way. If donations or membership fees, which some political parties have, in larger amounts, let them do in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56176	The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56177	Mrs. Komic, all our amendments to article 39 follow the previous amendments that we have submitted to the relevant provisions of the bill, especially those of the laws that prohibit some behavior. I must draw your attention to the fact that the 39th article begins with a sentence that the political parties are fined, not political entities. You see, you've been rewritten from an existing law on the financing of political parties. Therefore, a misdemeanor cannot be committed by a group of citizens. Interesting thing, you see when "Resistance" writes how he takes care of himself. I would draw your attention to this article, item 39, item 19, where it says it is an offence – if it is not acted on a given degree of warning. How independent punishment can be a failure to act on a warning, and the warning refers to the removal of a deficiency, and if that deficiency is not removed, it is an independent offense. That's all Free Homen could write and no one else could write. This kind of experience we see in The Hague. Last night you had a chance to see what it looks like when judges think they're deity and want to introduce awe for their suits. That means, it could be the stupidest thing, but you have to respect that suit and that stupidity. You see for yourself, this quasi-civilized legal order of the quasi-European Union, in the quasi-zeal of the Democratic Party and satellites, looks tragically, and you count that this regulation will not be applied. It'll apply. In what way? Volunteerist! Against whom? Against anyone who isn't pro-European-oriented. That's the problem, but you've just forgotten one thing, the citizens have narrowed it down in time, 80% of the citizens don't want to hear about the EU and the NATO Pact. You've painted free, in the next election, all citizens will be in the polls to check, no one will let you steal them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56178	Thirty-three seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I warned you that the minister must attend the debate. Now I take that warning back...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56180	People's MP, you've broken the Rules of Procedure three times and you've been false, deluding the public and demeaning all of us who participate in the National Assembly's session. There is no member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly who obliges the Prime Minister to be present throughout the working day. His presence here is, MP, will you listen to the warning or will you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly?- I'm sorry. The choice is up to you. You insist on misleading the public and demeaning the work of all other MPs who have read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I warn you to treat all participants in the session with respect. And if you are having difficulty finding a member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of mandatory or does not speak of the mandatory presence of a representative of the Government, then I refer you to the Secretary-General or Deputy Secretary-General, who will allow you to learn by reading how disdainful you are about the reputation of the National Assembly and the work of all other MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56181	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56182	People's MP, you've been given the right to explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56183	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56184	Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56185	Mrs. Komic, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly and Article 107, you know very well, when I started to make that same remark now, you have already interrupted me in the first sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56186	People's MP, I warn you that what you're doing right now is a violation of a member who allows you to get your word and forces me to give you a warning. This is the most serious warning to stop your boastful behaviour towards other participants in the session and to belittle the provisions that oblige you as well as all the other participants in the session. Thank you, People's Messenger. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic from the post: Can I finish? Mrs. Comic, I'm not wearing a microphone. I thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56187	Mrs. Komic, we talked earlier about this cumulative punishment. We just wanted to specify attitude 3, to know exactly what infringements this measure refers to – the withdrawal of funds that have been obtained by committing the offence. This is much more precise, much better and easier to apply than this formula of attitude 3 and a number of provisions on infringements contained in paragraph 1. However, the legislators are not interested in this at all. It's clear to everyone. They're simply trying everywhere to demonstrate that kind of force, violence. Mrs. Komic, we're in a sort of mob today. You're the one who's been mobbing over the MPs. (President: National MP, I warn you not to deceive the public and not to insult other participants at the session, including the chairman. If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my sentence. (President: I do not allow it, because it is an insult to all other MPs. Because not only do you insult our participants at the session, but you insult people who are truly victims of mobbing in the Republic of Serbia in various places where the mobbing is exposed by employees. On the other hand, you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You feel that this can be done to you and you consider freedom of speech the right to give insults, and to treat other participants with insult during the session. Please talk about the amendment. Mrs. Comic, okay. It's just, there's a little problem. There's no man I've offended and there's not one word I've said... (President: People's Parliament, you have offended, I now warn you that you have just offended me, because you claim that I am exposing you to mobbing. You have offended me and offended other people who are really exposed to mobbing, unlike you who think you can violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you represent it with freedom of speech. I listen very carefully to what you say and until you cross the line of elemental decency and respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, of course, you can. The moment you cross that line, I must warn you and remind you that the public word is a great responsibility, as well as to remind you that there really are people who are real victims and that every cartooning of this kind of process, such as being a victim of mobbing, is something that I cannot allow without warning, and then punishment, if you insist, to be the subject of speech, or treated as freedom of speech during the session of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, you didn't even let me tell you what I wanted. You're... (Chairman: National MP, Second Warning.) I'm asking you about the amendment. But there's no need for any warning. In a very cultural way, I'm treating you and I'm trying to let you know that this... (President: National MP, you have an obligation to speak on the agenda. The moment the chairman comes before you seriously violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of that moment, you will be reminded of the provisions that bind you, both me and you. Otherwise, you have an obligation to talk about the agenda. So the amendment to article 39 was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go. ) Mrs. Comić, I'm really embarrassed that you're showing this kind of misunderstanding and you don't want to hear... (Chairman: National MP, Second Warning.) I'm not the subject of an amendment. I would tell you that with these few words, nor have I offended anyone, I have already tried to make an introduction to make known what the main thought is. I totally understand that you might be nervous that some of the amendments haven't passed. (President: The People's Messenger, the next sentence you break, begins with a sentence. I give you my first warning. ) Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about Article 39(3). (President: I give you a second warning. The next measure is the ban on words. ) Could you explain to me what I did wrong? I've called in Article 39 of Item 3... I patiently explain what you have done wrong. You insist that the measures of giving the warning are something that will not be resorted to.. She got away. Here, use your time. ) But, Mrs. Komic, you do not allow me to say Article 39(3). I said that sentence, and you gave me a warning. Excuse me, under what conditions... (President: People's Parliament, do you want me to say and take words or do you want to talk about the subject of the agenda? ) Well, I'm talking about confiscation of the benefit of the offense, Mrs. Comic. (President: here you go. Well, I don't know why you're giving me a warning, you won't let me explain the amendment. You don't allow me to have a critical relationship with the bill. They've written down some things here against the previous provisions. But I'm really sorry if I offended you. Just to draw your attention, look at how many MPs are working, look at how long this debate's been going on. If you think it's all regular, cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56188	National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 40th Amendment has submitted to Serbia's Progressive Group has submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56189	Article 40, as well as Article 39, we wanted in one special way to regulate in terms of criminal provisions, and consistently implementing our idea that the legal entity is, in fact, both political parties and coalitions through Article 39, so there would be no problems that some MPs have spoken of here – that the 39th define the responsibility of political parties only, but should indeed define the responsibility of all. But what I want to pay special attention to is this. We introduced the 40th responsibility of legal entities that finance political entities, because in our proposals, we excluded legal persons as possible contributors, but we introduced a newspaper that we need as a society and government as executive authorities. We are in favour of Article 17(4), where the obligation of the competent authority to pay political parties funds for regular work, and by the 10th of the month, to provide for a fine appropriate and high, therefore, in the amount of between 50 and 150 000 dinars, the responsible person in charge of the ministry who is to transfer finance to the parties for regular work, so that there is no responsibility for those who receive funds and for those who give, but never and nowhere, there is this parallel, that contradiction for those who need to apply the law. And the reason to prescribe criminal measures for the responsible persons in that body is precisely a practice, which we talked about a little bit today, where different interpretations of the Ministry of Finance have occurred – we still haven't determined when it was wrong or when the parties were paid more, or when they were paid less, and absolutely nothing has changed in the legal provisions. Until we introduce responsibility and executive authorities to deliver the budget on time and to be present in terms of talks and debates, parliament will not be the place where the laws will be passed. I think public hearings, public debates can be pre-arrangements for what's going on here, but they can't replace a parliamentary debate, can't be responsible for all those who have power through law and through repressive measures, and it doesn't itself show a certain degree of responsibility for the obligations it has under the laws. I think one moment since we have to start and the government to ask for responsibility is this, and in that sense I've written an addition to this amendment to Article 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56190	Since the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group, a minute and 15 seconds have been used. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56191	Article 41 of the Law, which we have proposed to delete, provides for a special extension of the limitation period which differs from the limitation period prescribed by the Law on Violations, so we believe that this is contrary to the constitutional principle of the unity of the legal order, to which the Constitutional Court has so far responded, and that, indeed, by decision 231 of 2009, it has therefore declared unconstitutional more provisions of the Law on Public Information, which have been amended by the Law on Infringements. I think that the public should know that the government should treat, as well as the promoter, its Constitutional Court and the decisions it makes, because if we do not respect the body that interprets and implements the Constitution, who will we respect? Aren't we going to be citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56192	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56193	I'm interested in how much time I have left independent of this time for the amendment. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you. Article 42. The bill is called "The loss of the right to obtain funds from public sources. "And, regardless of what is written in these four, five views of this member, the purpose and purpose that this member wishes to achieve is that parties in power can act through the Anti-Corruption Agency, in the field of court or criminal court, the situation – to deny to one political party funds from public sources because someone from the previous coalition of entities can pay some kind of illegal payment and create a situation to make the political party punishable and thus lose funding from public sources. It's the only goal that the Proposer wants to achieve with this member. If they, the promoter, and here I say it is the Government, although I don't think that they are real legislators of this bill, would really want to do so, to punish those who violate the rules on the financing of political parties, not only for the offence, not just for the criminal act, but also for something subsidical, which follows as a result of this punishment, the denial of public funds, then, in practice so far, we would be in a situation of several times showing commitment and insisting on respecting the Law on the financing of political parties that is now in force, which the DS adopted in 2003. I'll give you a few examples of what it looks like in practice. That's what it's going to look like when this bill is passed. Here you see, this is one piece of paper that says that someone is in line with the law on the financing of political parties on behalf of the political party, that he is the person responsible for financing the business and for submitting the report. That same person, with that ordinary paper, which was brought in according to the political party financing law, goes to a bank and they interpret that he is a representative, a party representative and takes credit. Now, what kind of situation will be in practice? If judges can't interpret this the way it's prescribed by law, you expect the Anti-Corruption Agency to hire an institution, since that provision will pass, therefore, that they will notice that it is not in accordance with the regulations? Oh, he won't. That's what this is about. This law is passed to complete an image. In public you're saying that it's a condition of the European Commission, as you say in public -- dear pensioners, we'd give you pensions, but there's a criminal IMF, ma, we'd hire you to work, but we can't do it from the EU, we'd solve it, but NATO took Kim away from us. Well, it's the same situation here, except another termology is used. This is reportedly going to be a media solution, and essentially, a large space for the selective application of this regulation will be created a regulation that certain provisions cannot be applied, space will be created for the amazing situations that we have in practice today. We today have in practice that due to the passiveness of the state body, the political party was not able, for example, to participate in the elections in the municipality of Žabljaj. Do you know about that? Because it wasn't possible to fund an election campaign unless there were 20% of those from public sources. What's the Agency doing? Because no one filed a report with a 'zero' result, it's supposed to initiate a misdemeanor. You know you haven't solved this agency's problem by this law. When you read this whole bill, you'll see that this agency has not been given the authority to initiate misdemeanor proceedings. It was the same in 2003, when the existing law was passed. And then you wonder that something hasn't been regulated. You don't want to regulate it. You want to open up a large deleted space for self-will. And some government authorities are just an excuse, a cover or a means to carry out the will of an individual. Even, it is no longer an important nickname, as long ago Serbia became a country of nicknames. For the rest of your time, Mrs. Comic. I hope you won't be angry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56194	You've used your entire time as an authorised representative. Members of the 43rd amendment were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs Zoran Shami, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapčević, as well as by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group in Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, you saw the conditions in which this debate took place, and we finally came to an end. The SRS has demanded that Article 43 be deleted which sets out something completely that, I would say, suspends this whole law. In particular, Article 43 provides that, following the initiation of a criminal offence under this law or a possible infringement procedure, the Agency is to suspend the transfer of funds from public sources to a political entity until a judicial decision is taken in a criminal or criminal proceedings. It shouldn't have stood here again to "political subject", because it shows that you don't know what you're writing in these laws. It could only have been written by "political foreigners", as only against the political party could a violation be committed. You did not want to change that by accepting the amendments to the SRS or some of the other parties that have submitted it. It is also extremely controversial that this is done at the request of the Agency. What if there's no request from the Agency? This will allow you to act completely arbitraryly. What's the biggest problem with this article is that you basically end the presummation of innocence. You, as The Hague tribunal, say that as soon as a procedure is initiated, there will be a misdemeanor. Political parties running and winning a number of MPs in the Assembly are losing their right to do so. Therefore, nowhere can this be done, and in particular it cannot be said that the right to transfer funds is lost until a judicial decision is taken in criminal proceedings, especially given the fact that after several judicial reforms, the criminal proceedings on average lasts for three, four and more years, and some even 15 years. Which means that for the entire period between the two cycles of the election, you can run a criminal report and stop everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56196	Two minutes. Thank you. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56197	For SNS, the existence of this part is extremely problematic, the suspension of the transfer of funds from public sources as well as the previous loss of the right to obtain funds from public sources, which is a serious right and authority given to the Agency, which can significantly affect the course of the electoral process, the work of political parties, which seems to be subject to serious abuses. What is problematic for us is that this work is not regulated by criminal law or by the Law of Infractions. I would just like to remind myself that the Constitutional Court, when it comes to the Law on Public Information, has already come to the conclusion that all those provisions which have criminal measures and procedures, which do not comply with the law and the law dealing with commercial offences are unconstitutional. It seems to us that it was also necessary for this act to be placed in criminal law, in criminal law, and only on this basis to give authority to the Agency so that it could impose sanctions. If the Agency adopts this solution, you are going to a administrative dispute and it is very problematic that this could be corrected in the administrative dispute. What concerns the work of the Agency itself is a percentage that is totally non-transparent and carried out in Article 38, with the intention of someone to commit a criminal act that is both problematic. I talked about it ten minutes ago, so neither the defense nor the appeal nor the possibility of you participating in the debate. This is something that is unacceptable and I hope we have a little more time in the next one. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56198	Two minutes. Thank you. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 45th amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56199	Article 45 speaks of a period within which sublegal acts relating to this law will be adopted. The government has set itself a six-month deadline for this kind of business since the day of entry into force of this law. I really don't understand that one of these laws is being considered by an emergency procedure, and then it remains six months for the adoption of sublegal acts. Well, aren't sublegal acts justifying the basic solutions that already exist in the law, are they already drawn up by the solutions given in the basic law? It is particularly unacceptable, we have asked that Paragraph 2 which says that until the adoption of acts, these sublaws, will be applied to sublegal acts under the existing law, but which are not contrary to this law. So, six months is the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, for the law by emergency procedure, and until then what is not contrary to the existing law can be applied. And who's going to judge whether or not it exists with this? In what procedure? What organ? How those who are damaged and affected will be able to protect their rights. That's why we asked to delete this item 2 and replace the six-month deadline with the usual and appropriate deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts of 60 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56200	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 46th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabakovic, and a National MP from Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56201	What is most interesting is that the law enters into force immediately, a sublegal act for six months, and that part concerning funding, it will enter into force on 1 July 2012. First, it is not normal to write that this law of application does not require specific funds in the budget, if we have proven that double the amount will be allocated. It can only be linguistically true because the next budget will allocate funds, but it will be multiplely larger. Is there anyone smart who can explain to me the logic of introducing a regulation on funding political activities for half the financial year? What's the reason? When elections are made, a new obligation should be put on the table for you as an opposition to be able to engage in political activity. Is that one of the reasons? If you're ever changing the law in the funding part, which I don't advocate, you'd have to be valid since the start of the financial calendar year. Everything else is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56202	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. People's MP, a system error, so please register again, so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56203	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted two amendments, the amendment to Article 25 has been amended, I see that a solution has been found, not to make it difficult, in terms of funds, guarantees, because the next election will be a very difficult situation anyway. More around Article 17 and the amended formula for the distribution of funds, in the Working Group, I made my remarks, instead of the 1.5 correction coefficient for the number of votes up to 5%, I proposed a 3 coefficient for votes up to 0.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, you know if someone achieves 5%, so that's 13 MPs, and minorities absolutely have no chance of getting that many MPs. If this was the idea that the parties of national minorities needed to introduce a corrective factor, then it had to be introduced to the extent that this situation could very well have been corrected. I have already said that 0.5 is somewhat relevant because it holds some kind of "status quo" party that will have four and more MPs or mandates. And for the parties who are fighting for one term, that means nothing, because there is a reduction in funding compared to the current funding method by, one, at least three times, 3.3 times the reduction compared to the current funding method. It is impossible that the system previously passed by the previous Law on the financing of political parties was not so valid. If necessary, these changes should go gradually and therefore, when I failed to pass the proposal for this correction factor 3, for parties that may have up to 0.5% of the votes in force, I submitted an amendment to return the earlier financing system, as returned in Article 21. In Article 21, we returned the old system: 20% in equal parts, 80% based on election results. Then why couldn't that same logic? If it was too much 30%, it was realistic that in the first phase it would be 20%, which would be in the case of these smaller parties a reduction of one-third. But I also see in the press how many speeches there have been here, because of the abuse of being treated equally in funding and parties, and in previous elections there has been only a coalition of Albanians, before whom I, as a member of the Party of Democratic Action, directly, with an independent list, have received one mandate, we have been leveled with all other parties that have come through the coalition. And it's not the same. Because if someone enters a larger coalition, they have their support, their help, and if someone comes out on their own, then that's where the structure on the ground needs to be adequately funded. Now it's a matter of concept. Do you mean a mature situation, and I see it has prevailed, that minority parties should also join the central parties. I have spoken several times so far that these measures cannot still be taken by Albanians, here, with these current measures and with the 10,000 signatures that will be needed to support, one, 90% chance that we will not have a representative of Albanians in the next meeting, as we do not have a representative of the Roma parties in this session. If the point is that by rounding up and this style of involving minority parties within the central ones, that's one concept, but I'm saying all the time that the conditions have not yet matured in this transition period, because we still have a lot of problems on the ground, we have problems with the integration of minorities, above all Albanians into the state system. However, this transition period was to be respected and not drastically changed. I think there are drastic conditions. On the one hand, there was no preparedness, I wrote to the President of the National Assembly, during those changes, changes and additions made in the Law on the selection of MPs, to treat this, in addition to the blanco resignation, whether or not the minority of 10,000 signatures, because we had that solution of 3,000 earlier, and right now there are 10,000 and plus these drastic changes in the way of funding, the result will be, in my opinion, that in the next call of this Assembly, a smaller number of representatives of minority parties, and if that is your goal, it will certainly be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56204	The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56205	Article 47, which is directed by the motionor, reads as follows: "This law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication", so the parties should be prepared and political entities, groups of citizens a little less, and coalitions too, but the parties will, to control, members of 16 and 17 will enter into force on 1 July 2012, and, as we said, sublegal acts within 60 days, or 6 months, and according to our proposal, it is 60 days. Well, do you think everyone is ready, or should be controlled as political entities, that they don't need any preparation, is enough for eight days and will be ready to welcome the Agency, which can, without a reasonable request, seek out any document and take control. But that's why the government, which has capacity, has employees, should leave it with six months to prepare a sublegal act, and after the election, we'll see if this double-moving provision, which you've predicted, will be in effect at all?- I'm sorry. Indeed, I think the only real solution is what we have proposed with our amendment, which is that the law has been applied since 1 January 2012 in general, because that is the only thing that puts the government in the same position as the executive body, the Agency and the political entities, which are the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56206	This was the last amendment to the search in detail. Does anyone want a word? (No) This concludes the debate on all amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE ACCIZA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Zoran Krasić, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Radojko Obradović, Radojko Obrjanović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirko Mirović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the National Assembly to inform the Government's representative, the Ugljanin Minister and his associates that they can enter the O.R., and we thank the Justice Department's associates; given the time you've spent with us, you can also attend the next item of the agenda. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56207	I'd just like to ask if we're going to have a representative of the government, Mrs. Comic? (Yes) Can I wait, just to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56208	You got the word, MP, what's the problem? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you're back with us and welcome back. We hope you're more prepared than you were yesterday, that you'll have answers to questions you didn't answer yesterday. I assume you're now reinforced, the gentleman from the Ministry of Finance is here. I will use, of course, the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group as part of this amendment. I will begin with this amendment by Mr Krasic, who has submitted and asked that, in principle, everything be in the old way, unlike what you represent to us as only good, correct and possible and, I repeat, from yesterday, European, to make this somehow more natural, as it has been so far. So, you know what I noticed? In all the arguments in which you rejected the amendments, you are calling for revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. And when you take the law that is before us today, as far as the income of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, only one sentence is devoted in the light of this law. I will read to you how it reads – Reasons for the adoption of the law, and that, be careful, by emergency procedure, so these are the reasons, not for the adoption of the law, ''to create conditions for the realization of the planned trend of the collection of excise income in the Republic budget. ''You see, Minister, when a responsible state leads a responsible fiscal policy, then to ensure stability on the revenue side of the budget can, but it must not be a practice to change the excise law, but to access budget rebalancing. This means that the government is incompetent and that it is bad, that at the beginning of the year it was bad budget revenues, that it planned poor budget expenditures and that it planned to run a poor excise policy. That's the way it should be in normal countries. And then the smart and wonderful government came across, because we're having trouble with budget revenues, we're not going to do rebalancing, we're not going to cut our income, we're not going to give up anything that's our privilege and discretionary rights, but we're going to raise taxes to patch up budget gaps. So, I'm talking about an economic story, past that political story that I'm going to talk about a little bit later, since the political part of the story yesterday from some fellow MPs here was misunderstood or poorly interpreted. Now we ask you, if, in the light of the law in one sentence, you let us all know that the problem is the revenue side of the budget, how can you refuse all amendments, you have rejected everyone you have received, calling for poor income, or that you want to achieve planned at the beginning of the year. Who's something wrong with this? It's not right for you to sit in Germany's 11th and the SRS told you yesterday. Whether it pleases you or not, and I would like it to be here with us today, the European or Brussels lobbyist in Belgrade Bozidar Djelic, so that he will explain to us from an expert aspect the excise policy, as he tells us here that he is harmonising with European standards and that he wants the excise structure in Serbia to be adequate with the excise duties in the EU. I asked you yesterday, but unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. I ask you today, how much of the increase, since you are compatible with Europe, will go to a reduction in CO2 emissions in the atmosphere in Serbia, I ask, how many of these pairs will go on to build roads in the structure of this excise and how much will it go for new jobs? That, Mr. Minister, is the structure of excise policy in your EU. And now we're coming to the political story of yesterday. I have been interpreted here as defending the EU or better than you understand the EU. I understand her, Mr. Minister, to challenge her. I learned that from my president, Vojislav Seselj. If you want to make something up, then you need to know. You know what's dangerous in this country? That the EU promotes those who don't understand it. Now, that's the most dangerous. When you promote something you don't understand, it looks like this Excise Act. I didn't get an answer yesterday, whether you were bigger Europeans in January or December or Europeans today. When did you understand the SAA better, in January or June, six months after that? No one from the government will tell us that. Yesterday I told you, it's human to admit that you don't understand, you don't know, and you're wrong. You're asking us today to understand what we're changing. You convince us that you need more money to make roads, schools, kindergartens, which in principle, and in line with the European policy that you are calling for and from these funds is not being made. Mr Krasic also said yesterday that the routes in this country are being made from the European Investment Bank's loan, the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. You'd make them if you had projects. You don't have a project. You in our budget didn't provide money to pay for the projects. You assure us that this increase will ensure the construction of roads, Corridor 10, etc. etc. Do you know why this is possible in this country? It is possible because most of you are silent over the fact that one minister has come and said during the past year – subsidies in the agrarian policy we have led have not produced effects and results. We have to change them. Who's responsible for that? Nobody, ministers, and least of all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Or there's a new genius who's going to be dealing with the economy and the trades that he's saying, they're taking action from now on, and we're going to apply them for the next year. If they show up as good, they, respected citizens, will be the basis for full tax reform. I guess someone who's serious about tax projections, fiscal policies, is working to be sustainable for three or five years, not a year. We're going back to a story that challenges the government's competence. At the beginning of the year, you misdesigned revenues, the amount of excise duties, and in the middle of the year, you change that, stabilising the budget, providing for a change of excise duty, instead of a budget rebalance. Well, who's gonna take you seriously? How? It's just that we don't get it. Then you get Brussels involved in this whole story. Since yesterday, I've been in a dilemma about whether Brussels was really interested in all of this or is this the government's butter, so as an argument and covering for her actions was necessary and Brussels? That's why I want to deny what was sent from here yesterday -- that I defended the EU. There is no difference between you, Minister, between you who are running Serbia from Belgrade and Brussels today. As far as Brussels is concerned, their malignancy, and as far as Belgrade is concerned, is the commitment to serve that malignancy. Why do I tell you this, Minister? And why don't you, in Brussels, in your home countries run the policy that you have in Serbia? Well, they're not crazy. The EU did not make them, but they made the EU, but made it to protect their interests. Whose interests are you in Belgrade protecting? Whose? We can't understand. What regulation are you talking about this way, and by the end of next year, part of the derivatives will still not be able to be imported into Serbia, and that part that is in domestic production, which NIS produces? You'll trip NIS. So, I repeat yesterday's story, Brussels took you, you're his weapon to slap Moscow's slappers. The accident for the SRS is the biggest thing that you've ever decided to be that glove in their hands. Why, why is that? Who in Serbia today is not in the interest of NIS doing what is right? This fuel that you are now burdening by increasing is spent most in Serbia. The ones you're protecting: MOL, Helenic, OMV, these fuels are just buying from NIS. Since you will commit NIS to these higher excise duties, they too will be higher prices, but all this will be poured over to the final consumers, the ones that are the most today in Serbia. Why, Mr. Minister? Because they drive the average age of a tractor for 30 years, in "European Serbia", in Serbia, where they have been at the strength of European values for ten years, 30 years is the average age of tractors, 37 years the average age of machines. Now you're telling us that this is just how it's supposed to go. I asked you yesterday, you didn't give me an answer, how will this work on inflation? That's right, benevolent?- I'm sorry. What is it that both oil and oil producers in Serbia have been dissipating and relaxing for the past few months? The fact that the dinar has grown artificially, the day before, it was 95, today it's 99, with the trend of growth, so, Mr. Minister, the importers, and we're energy-dependent, so when you add the drop in the value of dinars and excises, inflation to move on. What does that mean? This means that the average salary in Serbia will be worth less, so that means that less will be spent, and when you round that chain, we are blacked out. Then we count on the IMF to approve a billion, just in case. It relaxes you, relaxes you. How are we, citizens, farmers or all those who use all this to get through, who cares about Nemanja's 11. You're projected to make it through the end of this year, and then you're going to go into an election campaign, and it's going to be spent a little bit of what's there and what's wrong with you. That's not how the country's run. You can be angry and not be angry, understand what we're saying or not, the state can't be run like that. This country, if it wants to get on its feet, has to break up with the policy that has been in it for the last 10 years. This is a school example of the law, political and economic behaviour of officials in Serbia, which is why Serbia should not go to the EU and should give up the SAA and the Transition Trade Agreement. This is proof that Serbia is inferior to your political ambitions, that it is on its knees and that you are strangling it. You're talking about revenue through excises, since after VAT they're the biggest. You like excises a lot, there's no tax ejaculation, there's got to be killing, there's got to be gas and luxury to be spent on others. You know how things are because of your commitment to go to the EU and, in our opinion, the damages and massacres of the Serbian state and Serbian economic interests, it's a picture in the last two, three years: in 2008 customs revenues were 64 billion, for 2011 it was projected 39 billion. So, it's been projected almost twice as much, Mr. Minister, while excises, which skins all of us in Serbia, from 100 projected to 160 billion this year. Is this a responsible national economic policy? Is this the policy we need to accept as adequate and relevant? That's why we're against the EU, Mr. Minister. There are economic reasons and we all feel them fat on our skin, the economic reasons in which you are completely lost, and the government has projected that by 2012, it will be ready to make that customs adaptation. (President Nikola Novakovic: I apologize, Mr. Stevanovic, 15 minutes have expired. You can use the MP's time group. ) You have begun to lead customs policy, instead of gradually, which gives you both the right and nothing else, you have led the policy as if in 2012 Serbia would be fully ready to join the EU, you have completely liberalised the market, so the average customs rate in Austria is double the average rate compared to Serbia. You've made a competitor an economy capable of getting into their market, so you're so casual you can knock down prices. That's why we're against it. Other reasons are political, Mr. Minister, because the EU is taking away KIM from us, because it also obliges you to make economic relations with "the state of Kosovo". You sell us fog to negotiate – you will never give up KIM. These same EU countries, which gave you this opinion on excise duties, ask you to develop regional co-operation with Kosovo. I ask you, Mr. Minister, since you changed this because of your European definitions and European integration, to tell me which country, after Cyprus, entered the EU without regulating borders, demarcation, or perhaps you think, because as a representative of the government, you are competent to give me that answer, that Serbia will be an exception? The SRS claims they won't. Not only will there be no exception, you will, as a government, if you are in that power, agree to this, agree to the demarcations and borders imposed on you by Brussels. Then you will complain about Russia that nothing is helping you, and the Russians come and tell you – we cannot be bigger Serbs than you in Serbia. I ask you -- who in Serbia is not in the government's best interest, so, here, let it be a privileged NIS position, what interest do we have to blow the wind in the back of the OMV, MOL? Well, it's not the MOL in Serbia that employs 23.50,000, it's the NIS, and it's not the same when you import a re-promatter and when you import a finished product. On the continent of this finished product in Serbia is only sold, and we only spend, and through NIS 20, 30, 50,000 people earn, if not more. Yesterday I said openly – not all of these workers at NIS are satisfied, each of you stops at a gas station, so some worker complains about something. It's your job, gentlemen, to listen to these people. A moment ago, we're listening to a story about mobbing, the chairman of the Assembly says: 'Cause of the victims of mobbing, don't talk like that. Do you know in which country there's mobbing and mobbing victims? Where institutions don't work. E, institutions do not function in Serbia, because you are unable to protect those people who work in NIS and who are unhappy. And to make the tragedy bigger, 49% of the ownership is ours, which is the state, which is citizens. Well, I guess we have an interest in fighting for it. Is that something we're ashamed of? These people will receive salaries through a realistic economic process to increase consumption. Government representatives speak -- we need to reduce consumption, we need to reduce public spending. Our spending is low, Mr. Minister. What is the consumption in a country where the average salary is 13,000 and the consumer basket is 40,000? How can spending in that country be big? What is spent in this country except for food? Do we school properly, dress properly, do we have a social upgrade right? We don't! You give excise policy, tax and other policies to kill and so little is there! Don't agree to that. The SRS invites you not to agree to this, that once in ten years, a government shows little economic and social responsibility to domestic interests – Serbia's national economic interests. In that, if I didn't say what, the EU wouldn't argue with you. Yesterday I was telling you how these political monsters of their defense interests. What is it that the government doesn't learn from them so that you can defend ours in the same way? No, apriori, everything Brussels said about us is acceptable. It is acceptable for Brussels lobbyists in Belgrade, but I count that you are not such a man, that you are not the political profile of Bozidar Djelic or some others who will give anything for Brussels. Such Serbs can no longer lead, and we will clearly ask citizens to do so, because it has to change. Citizens can't lie and nobody's incompetence, yesterday someone in the debate said, "Citizens can't pay through money, two, three, it doesn't matter." They don't have to do that, but they don't have a choice. They are forced, because you are in one or the other, or who knows what way you usurped and grabbed the right for yourself to make decisions, both political and economic, in Serbia. That's why I repeat, and that's why I'm going to end this notification, yesterday I didn't defend the EU, nor did I defend the government. I brought you into the same plane because you accepted something like that. Serbian citizens must know that they are victims of the European policy that you are leading in Serbia, the victims of a policy that I am not domestically and nationally defending. We deeply believe that in the next election, citizens will deal with such a policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56210	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56211	Mr. Novakovic, my amendment is on the agenda, so let me warn you about the incident just now, Mrs. Comic. I'm talking about the amendment. I hope it's not hard to figure that out. If you please, since to Article 1. The draft law amending the Excise Act has five amendments to the various parliamentary groups and political parties, I hope you will not find it appropriate to interrupt me if I compare the quality of my amendment, the SRS amendment, with the other amendments. I don't want to answer when these amendments come to the agenda, so people don't misread it. But at first, I have to realize that all amendments, of course, have been rejected, as far as the government is concerned, it's clear, it's understood, and it's about the same explanation, I can't say it's identical. For my amendment, something has been called out, and for these other amendments, believe me, a stereotype response – it is rejected for the reasons mentioned in the previous opinion on the previous amendment. There's something out there that's not true. By accepting these amendments, any of these amendments, I have to say that these four are exactly identical, there is a decline in excise income from oil derivatives in the republican budget. I have to tell you, that's not true at all. Here's why. With my amendment, I didn't touch that part about quality derivatives, I didn't touch it at all. He accepted only logic that was present in December of last year. In December of last year, gasoline was divided into two categories, diesel was divided into two categories depending on quality. With this change, you have annulled everything that was the point of unity in December of this coalition government and this coalition government, which says that, basically, in addition to those parolees, that I do not speak, etc., there is social justice. What difference does social justice have if, for D2, the non-quality oil excise is raised to the level of diesel fuel, EVRO diesel? Where's social justice? Explain to me. What kind of industrial, technological, economic justice is this? You know what that is, about? You're about to run a policy -- you want to pick a fit, you want to choose a Mercedes, same price. When was it that "fica" and "mercedes" were the same price? (The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: New 'Fice' and 'Mercedes'. ) I would ask Boris Tadic to enter the corner and remain calm. Be still, Boris, so you don't win! How can "fica" and "mercedes" be the same? You convince us they can be the same. I can't, Mr. Carbonin! If it were the same, you wouldn't be driving, I guess, in "audia," but in "jugica," but you're not going to go into "South" for a living head. Far away, if you're going south, it takes seven hours to travel to New Market. Like this, probably in 4.5 hours. I'm just making a comparison, and I guess whoever's driving the car that's using our 95 octane gas is forced to drive and use that fuel. Do you know how gas stations are fueled today? The largest number of citizens comes and says, "Give me a thousand dinars, then the bill will be something, and the next time, let's go for another 1,500 and she's yellow for the reserve all the time." Don't be surprised! Mr. Stevanović told you what the average receipts are - 30,000. When he gets electrocuted, when the communals come up on him, when he gets into these other things, he drives on the reserve. Don't be the rapper those who drive these jeeps. Don't take them, please, they're not rappers for a normal world. I must openly tell you, last year, in December, Mr. Kasalovic gave a good amendment. He carried out the division of oil derivatives by quality, he noted the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia that revenues should be increased based on excise duties, why, because customs policy sank, it does not exist. In three years' time, incomes are reduced based on customs, and in order to make up for it, you have to increase revenue from something that's possible, and that's excise, because we don't already depend on abroad, and, then, raise those excise duties, lift up, so now we're in a situation -- you drive a Mercedes, you drive a ficco, and it's exactly the same. Well, that's not possible. Probably two more years, we'd have to do it in Article 9 where there's an excise policy about an oil derivative if we had six dots, each point corresponds to some quality of an oil derivative. We have to have it, we can't do it any other way. I could now convince people who are following this transmission and tell them that it might be mathematical and better to buy this quality fuel because it's being guarded by the engine, it's slightly lower consumption and a kilometer is bigger than domestic fuel, but I can't convince some when people say it - you're free of me, but I don't have money, I have to buy what's cheaper. For this amendment of ours, I must say, we had to find some rapper. You know, we radicals don't suffer from everyone's liking, because that's impossible, but if the balance sheet says that 30 to 50% of total consumption represents low-quality domestic fuels, or, forget the "domestic fuels", remember the term "low-quality fuels" that are not Euro-quality, then we have to give some kind of protection to that population. We measured the way this protection can be provided, to get it all back as regards low-quality fuels at the found level in December 2010. For quality derivatives, and they come from abroad, you know, we didn't want to intervene with the amendment to what was adopted in December 2010. We need to explain some more things to you, when you look at the price structure of the oil derivatives as of January 1st, you can really see one thing, that the gross income in that price represents what the state takes, and in that sense we're not specific. It is similar in other countries, only this proportion is changed as this structure is divided. We didn't even want to influence it. Why? Because there is a Article 17 and a kind of indexation and where there is a possibility for the Government to intervene with its sublaw in the event of a change in the price of crude oil, and hence also for the producer of the price of oil products, without in any way jeopardising the excise policy from the point of view of receiving and income of the budget. However, when we read this argument, we conclude that the Budget Law is more important than the Excise Act. There's a completely changed logic. By definition, all the rules in the fiscal area are stable regulations, and the numerical statement of their application is in the revenue-side budget, so if revenue is expected to increase on that basis, then in one year, the regulation is changed, and only next year will it enter into force. In our case, the Budget Law is first passed, and then all fiscal laws are following the budget law. Well, it's not possible. Why? Well, anyone who participates in a business life, he formulates his business, defines on the basis of regulations that represent a burden on the environment, and he has to have some security and some stability to plan, and now you're practically forcing economic operators to look at the Budget Law, and in the Budget Law they won't see anything, they're just going to see how much the state costs. You know, this is a much broader topic than anyone could understand -- which would be 49 when it could be 44, which would be 37 if it could be 35, which would be 35 if it could be 30, which would be 17.95 when it could be 15. The numbers here can be fooled if someone pays attention only to these amounts. The problem here is much more important. Mr. Ugljanin, on import derivatives, and diesel and gasoline from imports, anyone who deals with this business makes a lot of money from 15 to 17 dinars per litre. We didn't touch it with our amendment, because everyone who deals with the transport of oil products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, no matter how much it is on the gas station, etc., all imports of these derivatives because we don't make them, someone from Austria, someone from Romania, someone from Bulgaria, how they manage. Well, even these foreigners who keep the pumps at our place when they buy domestic derivatives, low-quality derivatives, they are somewhat unsatisfactory by the structure of the retail price of these derivatives from the point of view of rebate and what remains as their income, but they are deeply dissatisfied with the fact that most citizens are looking for exactly these low-quality derivatives, because it can separate during the month, with an average income of 30,000, four-five thousand for fuel. I'm sure, Mr. Ugljanin, that you know, there is no bus service in many villages anymore. There's no interest in driving a private who was entrusted with the public's public works, so sometimes they had two departures a day, so they brought it down to one, and then it was twice a week, so it was reduced to once a week, so now it's gone. It's about spaces that are pretty empty. That's right at the cave high, so we don't lie. The fact that it's on the cave high is there and in Timoko Krajina, so it's in Prokuplje and elsewhere. However, there are some places like this in Banat, but let's not bid on it. I may have made a mistake somewhere, you won't mind me, but it's a fact. Now in these places you have a small number of people living. Why do they live? Because they have nowhere else to go. Everyone who had a place to go has already gone. And then someone from Prokupali needs to sit in that car that spends low-quality fuel, go see his parents there and process a little bit of that property, and there's no alternative. His only alternative, if I may say so, although only because the alternative doesn't go with each other, is to pour for some 1,000 or 1,500 dinars low-quality fuel, and if the car somehow lights up, it goes to look at its parents, to do some work on that property, to secure some winter. I'm telling you this because of that regionalization. Now, when this concept of regionalization is finished, then there's going to be a lot left - zero times zero, it's going to give zero. You know, so it's going to bloom like that thousand-euro stock, so it's been a few years, says -- brothers, I lied, I had to lie, to win Tadic. I don't want to remind you of any other political fraud. But the capacity and space for that kind of manipulation is on the extremity. No more of that. Absolutely no more of that. Now people question, interpret, try to concentrate, and do the best they can when you're quiet. No, you're all quiet today. You can't take a word out of their mouths. Shut up, count to ten, more than ten times a day, so it doesn't just explode, and someone destroys the will by every measure. Here, you see, December of the month you changed the excise law. We didn't say a word about that change, and we didn't like it because you raised the amount. But we saw that you made a difference in quality. And then the lobbyists started. Now. Now the question is really raised – what happened to the people who unanimously supported the amendment of Zoran Kasalovic last December? And, at that time, the public was pretty upset about the increase in excise duties that inevitably led to an increase in the retail prices of oil derivatives. It hasn't settled yet, the story of import-home fuel started immediately, so some agreements, some commissions, something. In the principle debate, I told you that what exists in our excise law, after these 2010 amendments, is a regular phenomenon in Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, France, Sweden. So, a similar division and a similar kind of excise policy, depending on the quality of the oil derivatives, they have. And, they justify, even, with those of them, let's say, extremely high-quality fuels, well, they do some demarcation and say -- these fuels go for basic production, this goes for agricultural production, it needs to be reduced, because these types of production should create a new value. It doesn't create a new value just a store. What would a store do if it wasn't for production? It does not create a new value for banks – interest. Those greens! They give some imaginary value to money, by the system that we're going to believe that it's really worth it. And there's no new product, no new production. And this is where you hit, practically, 30 to 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you told them -- well, you can drive Fica, but you should feel like you're in Mercedes, you know? We know that low-quality fuel is what we make, but you'll pay by European standards excise. This is where Europe came in before the signing, you see for yourself. Before you start swearing in the EU, European standards rule here. When was that done, made up? In late December, when the last one was lifted, we call it the oil industry. Anyone can import now. By December 31st 2010, it was that regulation that limited to ten years, trying to train NIS, to retain some monopoly. We need a monopoly, that's what we need to say. It's just that the monopoly needs to be controlled, not destroyed. What will happen to the Republic of Serbia if all oil suppliers withdraw from this market? We're left with the NIS. We don't care whether he's capable, destroyed, destroyed, incapacitated or simply unable to cope with a given situation, and 49% of NIS ownership have you, Mr. Ugljanin, as a representative of the government. I'm interested in whether the government is keeping in touch with members of the NIS Management Board who are there in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Do they keep any contacts? Are they talking? Why didn't you act like you're doing with NIS, say, Ju-es-style and some other investors who came in with us? No, the second task of this intervention is to make it clear to traditional Serbian friends that this government is not a dear friendship with these countries, because we always disabling them – both in front of the General Assembly, both in front of the Security Council and on other issues. First we ask them to represent our interests. Somehow, people, accept and say – well, we will represent all of your places and interests. When a certain moment comes, then you run a text message and all the tube by 180 degrees, and they turn out to be funny. Among other things, they complain to me – well, we have no one to talk to in Serbia! Well, they don't have anyone to talk to in Serbia?- I'm sorry. Everyone from abroad wants to talk to someone in Serbia who is in power, who is a representative of the state of Serbia and a representative of the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, there are fans of Brussels in our government. At times, I get the impression that it's expensive, quite, masochists who enjoy being tortured by the EU, drowning. However, it does not affect them personally, it affects everything. Today, when there are no sanctions, when there are no roadblocks, when there are no bombings, when there are not all those beastly attacks on, why not say not only in Serbia, but in this part of the Balkans. Today, when the incomparable conditions of the environment, let's say, I can't say better, I can't say even more acceptable, but different, we constantly recorded negative results. Excise policy shows that people don't actually see each other. So you can't see a man, you can't see his need, you can't see social justice towards that man. You can see an obedient relationship with Brussels and the expected consequence of a signature coming. Well, it's not that important to you either, it's that pre-accession funds. Some are, some aren't, some pretend they are, but everybody wants to be pro-European to participate in the distribution of that cake. That can't go on anymore. That can't go on! 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are appalled when they hear the words of the EU and the NATO Pact. I am very glad that the SRS has managed to preserve its ideology for years and is the only political party that does not need to change its ideology. Yes, everything we said about this suspense and this adventure, unfortunately, happened and it turned out that we were able to evaluate everything correctly, evaluate it in time to warn. In time to warn! Remember, the country you're borrowing, you're borrowing an em on the basis of allegedly some investments, you're borrowing the state for crossing the gaps in the budget and that so-called deficit financing. Now we've come to over 22 billion euros in debt. You can statisticalally say whatever you want, how much of a gross social product. It will be easier for you to see it, since statistics have changed in the meantime, so it is no longer going with price increases to a little bit, but with a consumer price index, and in methodology you have thrown out all those prices that are within the jurisdiction of the state, which the state regulates. But remember, this excise policy does great damage to everyone in the Republic of Serbia as well as to the citizens. I'm glad that we can also do this part of the agenda to show how persistent we are in implementing our ideology, well, and after so many hours in this room, we continue to expose our ideology, to explain our amendments, to inform our citizens, of course those who want to hear, to warn them what can happen. So someone didn't get it wrong, you were interesting and active only when it came to the first item of the agenda. It's just that you've imposed this rhythm, we've accepted that rhythm, and, Mr. Ugljanin, just to let you know of one more thing. Hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with a wave of young people, from 18 to 35, are paid several times less for the same job they work with people who are in some working relationship to indefinite time. And the payout is the same, and based on their work, by the fact that there is a difference that is denied by the young part of the organizers of youth cooperatives and representatives of some companies using youth. And it's a kind of abuse, torture, discrimination, not to use the word that makes Mrs. Komic uncontrollable for a moment. Thank you for your patience to listen to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56212	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56213	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes difficult for citizens to defend a law aimed at increasing excise duties, but when all arguments against this law are considered, when all the words heard in this room are considered, the work, though ungrateful, is not difficult. It is true that there are people in this room who are convinced that they are right against them we are standing, who are convinced that we are right and we get this confirmation not only in the elections but every day, of all those of whom we need this certificate. So, this amendment, which was submitted by the Government, refuses, but in the light of this amendment, we have heard very interesting thesis, theories and theorems that require certain answers and clarifications, including clarifications. Defending this amendment, some have said that they understand the EU and study the EU, but obviously they don't understand the EU in the right way, and that would be like if I said, you know, I love Serbian patriotic poetry, but I don't like Jovan Ducic, I don't like Milan Rakic, you know, I understand epic Serbian songs, but I don't like the Kosovo or the Kosovo cycle. When we talk about these amendments, it is interesting to remind ourselves that in Serbia's political life there are those political parties that preach two morals. One of the morals is the one they adhere to when they're in power, but they don't preach to him, and when they're in opposition then what they preach doesn't apply when they get in a position to be in power. The party that has entered history, beware of Serbia's history, as the party that has most often raised taxes, taxes, taxes, today most loudly defends taxes, excise taxes and taxes, and, according to the party's leader, the people have called many taxes, regulations and taxes and called them, his taxes, his taxes, because it was not known whether these taxes are being put into their own pockets or those taxes and taxes go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia or somewhere else. In any case, when we say that Brussels today has some lobbyists in this House who bring some amendments to Brussels' account, I don't know if Brussels has its lobbyists in this House, but I have to tell you that the town of Kruševac has its lobbyist in Brussels, and that's me, and there's the town of Cačak and Ducellovici where my grandfather was born, and Pec and Prizren and Djakovica have their lobbyists in Brussels, and that's us from the DS, because for us that part is an integral and inalienable part of Serbia. Today, when you say that the EU is taking Kosovo, I must remind you that today the Kumanski Agreement was signed, when DS was not in power, that some others were in power at the time, that they said – if one NATO boot is stepping on Kosovo, we will withdraw from politics for life, we will never deal with politics again. Today when you're talking about excises, so you're reading us everything that comes to mind in this room, and you're saying that excises from a hundred billion have increased to 160 billion, and customs have dropped 64 billion to 39 billion, among other things, because some CEPTER Free Trade Agreement has been signed. When you say today that those January excises were good in December 2010, I have to remind you that you didn't vote for them at the time. You did not vote for this so-quoted amendment by Mr. Kasalovic. On the contrary, some of you criticized him. So it takes you six months to figure out what's good for Serbia. It is likely that in six months, when we sign all contracts with the EU, you will say it – well, that wasn't so bad, but we had to attack. On the other hand, the DS has always tried to tell the truth to the citizens and voters of this country. And no one from the DS has gone to any institution, domestically or internationally, to say that he is proud that the citizens of Serbia have given him the title of the largest media manipulator, but then in parliament he calls on the truth and promotes the truth as the supreme value of the system he believes in. When we talk about the fact that we are advocating Brussels with these excise duties, and we are violating traditional relations with our friends, I must quote you, for all the uninformed and uninformed, the words of the Russian ambassador who today said, Mr Konuzin, that our centuries-old and historical friends are not allergic to Serbia's European path, on the contrary, they support it and believe it will lead to further improvement in Serbia and Russia's relations. Therefore, those who earn and say that I do not speak according to the amendment patiently listened to a 40-minute lecture, which was not according to the amendment at all, so that they can show patience and these five minutes to listen to me, and then at home for another few hours to think about what I am talking about and then hear another sentence that says – we are not allergic to the European path of Serbia, especially we are not allergic to any act brought into the Serbian parliament this time, and we are approaching Serbia's EU. Finally, I have to remind myself of just a few more things we've heard in this room, which is that we don't increase excise duties or any taxes or taxes, because we don't understand how the citizens of this country live, nor do we do it in the intention of harassing citizens, nor do we rule this country. The rule of this country ended the way it ended. This country is being managed today, managed by its resources. And who will govern this country, it is decided in the free democratic elections, which, thank God, will come. In these elections, everyone will have the opportunity to assess both our present behavior and our previous behavior and our consistency. And in these elections, I will consistently represent the idea of the EU in Serbia and Serbia in the EU. In these elections, too, I will consistently be the ambassador of the town of Kruševac in Brussels, Rome, London and all those countries where I want Serbia to be an equal friend to whom everyone is giving their hand, not to take something from that hand, not to give something, but because I believe Serbia is a place in the EU and because I believe that the European path of Serbia has no alternative, as well as because I know it, and I am absolutely confident that the EU does not take anything from us, nor imposes on us. It's up to us to accept that we live like all the normal and civilized world, or to reject that offer. We had that offer once in our history in 1991, and after 20 years, it's time to at least go back to that year in 1991, but not through war and suffering, but to that offer we had from the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56214	You have no right to reply, but you have the right to speak. First word will be given to Mr. Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56215	Mr. Chairman, you see, Serbia is living the way it lives today, because its lobbyists in Rome and Brussels are like the ones they used to say before me. That's why in the world we have the credibility we have. Because Serbia is represented by people who understand politics and understand it as they understand it, some who lectured earlier. I ask the Serbian Ambassador in Brussels, self-proclaimed, of course, I don't know when a very good president gave him an credential, although it doesn't matter, Serbia is a Kruševac, of course – tell me, please, what tax, such a bad tax on Vojislav Seselj, you abolished when you came to power? You haven't lifted any. And instead of making the smart decisions that you have in your inheritance, when it comes to taxes, Vojislav Seselj left you to use rationally and wisely with your friends in the world and to place Serbia and the Serbian people and all those living from the Serbian economy, what did you do, Mr Milivojevic? Do we have to repeat the story of product control, airport, JAT, etc. (President: No direct address, please. I'm sorry. It was said here that we signed a bunch of contracts. I ask you – where are the benefits of these contracts? Serbia today has only 22-23% of its exports in total GDP. To this society where these Europeans lead you and the most unserious state exports 60 or 70% of its GDP. Who's been defending these geniuses in power for the last 10 years? They set up shopping malls, banks and potentially insurance companies. In 10 years, these European minds in Serbia have been unable to establish a stock market. We have the largest capital market on the European continent. They're now talking about what the Russian ambassador said. At the Expo Centre, on March 23rd, the same Russian ambassador said – Serbia did not think well about the final effects of its European integration. Why would the Russians be creeped out by Serbian European integration? The Russians will not lose the world's most favourable trade economic agreement, but Serbia will lose it when it comes out, or eventually be part of the EU. And now everyone in the world is coming or trying to come to Serbia, to export to Russia using the agreement, and Serbia will deny such opportunities to satisfy the political ambitions of one, two or three parties in this country, who make up the government as they have drawn up this government. Well, when they mention the Kumanian Agreement, let them say who they're sitting with today in the government. We were the only ones in Serbia who voted against the agreement, but those who were creators of our side today don't "sniff" them in government. Today, on the contrary, they are favoring them and they are the "leaders" of this Serbia, the "best" and so on. Cheers to them and to their honor. I remember their 2008 election campaigns, and I remember well who the heroes were for them back then. I remember, you're arresting them together today. Together. You're talking about DS truths. So, what are you going to do, fence yourself with lies with a hundred, out of a thousand euros, stock? Well, based on that lie, we heard your candidate won. We didn't promise 200,000 jobs, you promised them, and you fired 400,000 workers. They don't strike guns in front of the SRS, they strike at your place. Not "Fiat" the SRS, but you, well, private investment from Italy finance you. It does not give SRS 10,000 euros for "Beneton", and the stepmother is the Serbian textile industry from Novi Pazar, Ivanjica, but you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are not making a circus in Serbia with regionalization, we are, but you, with one law, with another law, with five regions, with seven regions. It's not a mufti our product, etc., etc. And all of this is booming in Serbia and all of this is happening while you, understanding the EU, are promoting European values in Serbia, in which, according to your European friends, 700m or 800m euros are being stolen on public procurement. Are these European standards that you understand, and we don't understand? Now, these are European standards. These are European standards through your prism and through your perspective. It's good that you're taking us to the EU, because we'll never get there. The way he is, you'll never get us in there, thank God. And it's not true that the EU doesn't take Kim away from us and you know it well. I just asked Mr. Ugljanin. May Mr Milivojevic answer me now – after Cyprus, which country has entered the EU with uncircumcised borders? Mr Milivojevic, Montenegro's official Montenegro, discusses the borders of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo with Cypriot terrorists. Why? To secure her European path. Mr. Milivojevic, the EU is kidnapping KIM Republics of Serbia! (President: The second time – don't speak directly, you promised. I won't do it anymore. Don't ask Russia for customs. It's not Russia that's asking us to recognise the seal, it's what the EU wants. Well, Sarkozy has openly said that we don't count on support until we confess to KIM. They expect good neighbourly and regional relations from us. There is no Russian special rapporteur, or as it is already called, but the EU has a rapporteur in both Serbia and Kosovo. What else is going to happen? Why didn't you have a good president a few days ago, and I don't know where he is now in Rome, because Rome, because the European Union, in Rome, is the European Union, because we don't understand it and we don't understand it. It would be nice if you could name me three pillars of the European Union, since you understand it and you know it. Why didn't Boris Tadic go there? Because the president of the state of Kosovo was invited to Rome. You really think that in Serbia there's more of a crazy person and he's going to be dragged in, and he's going to enjoy that European fairy tale. I have told you nicely, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, who are promoters of European values in Serbia, it is not dangerous when you understand something you dispute, it is even desirable, but when you do not understand or do not understand what you are promoting, it has a disastrous position for every man today in Serbia in economic, social, political and other terms. And, don't talk about European values you who have sown chaos in Serbia, from parliament to the last assembly of the municipality, where you don't know who's voted for, who's who, what's whose mandate, who's who's involved and who hasn't participated in the elections. Do not talk about the values or perspectives of the Republic of Serbia, but a little deeper into the people and see how the people with the pigs live together in the same rooms, to get this country back 36,000 euros from the people they found, to make the money stolen by the tycoons that put you together, to get the five largest Serbian tycoons to settle their obligations to the state, to settle their obligations to the workers, to reconcile their obligations to the creditors, who cannot even sue them, or to ask them for money. They can't sue them because they know they won't take their goods, and they have no one to sell it to, on the one hand, and on the other hand they can't sue them because the judicial process will lead ten years. So, I'll end up with morality, uh, when it comes to morality, as far as morality, Mr. Milivojevic, is better than not having it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56216	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56217	Mr. Novakovic, I'm sorry, Mr. Milivojevic, you know that we from the Serbian Radical Party just want to finally return to parliamentaryism in Serbia, and that means that every MP is free to express his opinion. Of course, I belong to another political group, with some other ideology, too, I have the right to express my disagreement. But I'm always thrilled when the simple public of Serbia claps with Eurofanatic stories about a nice life, when, you know, that story about "Dekni." That jackna when's it gonna be? I don't mind, believe me. We need to face arguments, and let the people judge who says what, etc. I don't mind Mr. Milivojevic's enthusiasm with the situation in Serbia at all. He should be thrilled, he fought for this. It wasn't that simple to go to the yard, so pray, so this, and that, but, you know, I still have to intervene some time when something rough is over. I'm not a lawyer for Veljko Odalovic, I'm not, even in friendly relations with him, I'm not even friendly with Dacic, but you know, you should sit in the coalition, make one tea party, and then you can settle it until 1990, and from 1991 to 2000, then from 2000 to 2008, so from 2008 to today, you can define where you are, what you are and how you are. I know that everything that's been done in Serbia from 1990 to 2000 makes you sick. You were always against it, well, even when you were in power, through Momčel Grubač, Miodrag Perisic, Panic, Iliy Djukic, then the other Djukic. That SPS coalition of yours has long been present. And since 1992, you have taken over the city of Belgrade in a place of power, more or less, in urban municipalities, so in 1996, December, you took over the city of Belgrade, so you took over one six months, and then Vuk Draskovic considered it smarter, deleted Djindjic, don't throw it out of perception, it's all recorded, it's a deep history of the Republic of Serbia. I was really thrilled, I cried out today and provoked to see who would mention the Kumanski Agreement and you were always laughing when I told Mr. Milivojevic that he was DS's chief ideologist and when he showed up here, when he jumped like Rambo, I immediately saw Boris Tadic. That's all Boris Tadic's words. Just to make things right, against the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan, there was only one political party, everyone else was in, right, Veliko? What do you mean, it's not? And Vuk Draskovic was, and the DS gave support and they said, come peace, come UN to KIM, support the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, all of it. It can't change that now. I can understand this artistic enthusiasm of Mr. Milivojevic, but if you have something with Dacic, meet him in the hallway, so deal with him, here's Veljko Odalovic, he was head of the Kosovo district, he knows best what was on KIM, he knows best what was the escape to save the Serbian people from the UN, who helped terrorists. Isn't that right, Veliko? Do you know who these terrorists are now? All those who are in the "government of Kosovo", the independent, allegedly Kosovo and those who are in parliament, go to their site, so look at the biography, they boast that from the first day of the KLA. Take a nice Dacic, so sit with him and finish up, take Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, she was in the SPS at the beginning, I don't blame that, believe me, so she was with Covic in one party, and I don't blame that either, so now she's high-ranking in the DS, they probably don't have a more successful man, I don't mind that either. Not now when you bring out some disgust, when you throw up, so, throw up in the right place, don't go wide, you know, Vojislav Seselj was arrested in Gjilan, so he was in prison, so here for Radomana Bozovic, he was also arrested. Well, don't. It can't change, it's been recorded in history. You can't just wave like that and say, well, when you were, it was that. We were never alone. And when we were in that government, those 30 months, we came in to defend Kosovo and Metohija, if you remember. Boris Tadic, you solve it with memoirs, you write a nice memoir and solve the problem (receives to MP Srdjan Milivojevic). Mr. Novakovic, you see, a little bit, and Mr. Milivojević, by some task, has some remote control, they tap the button, he's got the power, and he's on his way right now, and he's on his way to the shower, and he's on his way, and then he's on his way back in 1991, and what's going on since St. Sava, so on, and so on. He is absolutely convinced that with the SPS story, he can disabling the SRS. I encourage you to keep saying it, you know, how glad I am to hear it. We remind voters of what was ailing, and what was being done, what efforts protected sovereignty and integrity, maybe we didn't win, maybe we couldn't win, but all we did was make sure there wasn't a fifth column, because when the fifth column came, you saw what was going on, and the fica was a Mercedes. Here, I showed you on a case of excise duty. So, Mr. Ugljanin, you're sitting in the oven, and you feel like you've been driving a Mercedes. It's the story of the EU. Now the godmother sends me a message and says, in Europe, pensioners deal with tourism, they just travel from place to place to replace what they couldn't in their youth, so they look, and they go here and there. And pensioners in Serbia cannot pay for a bus ticket from Nis to Belgrade to come to Belgrade to see their grandchildren. So, who's to blame? Amendment of Zoran Krasic to Article 1. Law amending the Excise Act and the Kumanski Agreement. The Kuman agreement signed by the SPS and the SPS in the Resistance coalition. And now it's our fault we're not changing politics and ideology, and you're all pro-European guys? And when you're fired and you're in charge, the only constant is to disabling and providing some data that simply history can't bear. So, Mr. Novakovic, I'm not offended, so we understand each other right away. I look forward to it when someone in power opposes the SRS, and even if it is so far away, there are no problems, but, behold, Mr. Novakovic, I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they see in their place an MP voting for this change to ask – is it, for example, a neighbor, where do you think I'm going to pay for that excise? Now, let's do some logic, unfortunately, it's not Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, what happened from December to today? In December, you bled for Mr. Kasalovic's amendment, and now you're trampling on that man and his amendment, with the same ferocity, the same passion. What happened in Europe? What changed with Europe in six months? This isn't the first case, so it was with that property tax law, remember, you changed him in three months. Then we go to the story – we run Serbia, we don't rule Serbia. They're right, they manage, they're a means, and whoever the government is is in Brussels. God forbid she gets a sneeze. You know, I'm just shaking when the hours are up in Brussels -- let the cleaning lady touch a button by mistake, the heavy current of Boris Tadic, right away, some kind of mess happens in Serbia tomorrow. That's the ideology you're working with, but don't worry, 80% of Serbian citizens don't want to hear about the EU and NATO pact. Let me tell you a secret, whenever you organise the elections, the election results will be controlled by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who went to the polls, because they won't let anyone cheat on them anymore with stories about "Dekni". [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56218	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56219	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I don't think there's really any point in us paving what you call your own ideology. So, I don't think we should do that, the citizens are assessing it, and almost 100% of citizens say it's an ideology that no longer has anything to look for in Serbia. Also, I think it is absolutely pointless to think about what who did and did in the past, because the effects of that past citizens also feel daily, judge and again 100 percent of citizens say – we do not want to go back to the policy that some have led in those years. When we talk about the future, we can talk about who has any argument about where Serbia is better in the future. I think whenever we talk about it, if we stick to arguments and facts and some evidence, I think that controversy makes sense and that citizens have the right to hear arguments and arguments about each of the policies that paint some future Serbia. Is Serbia better in Europe or Serbia better in Russia or should it be, as one of your former members suggested, one of the Russian governors, that, too, the citizens are assessing, because we are going out with these policies ahead of them and we are telling them what the policy we are behind is, and they are voting on that basis. Again, it has been proven that citizens believe Serbia's future is in the EU, as well as pensioners in the EU and Serbian pensioners would like to travel and it is obvious that there is greater certainty that they will be able to travel across Europe, and to see everything other citizens of Europe see, if Serbia is an EU member.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56220	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56221	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I thank you for the compliments of "moral gromada", and I am sorry that I cannot respond, thank you for the compliment of "intellectual gromada", and I cannot respond with the same measure, but I must respond to the same measure when it comes to my own memory and feeling of the citizens of this country. So, the fact is, I did be a five-colonel during the government of a party whose representatives we just heard. Every day I was fifth in a milk column, sugar, zeetin, and especially gasoline, which was plentiful at gas stations, and then that bottle of two liters of coke was made up, and then a liter of gasoline was poured into it, and then you bought it as two liters of gasoline. I wish some of them had stood in line with me at the time to buy that gas and leave the government then, not when Kosovo and Metohija left because of their policy. So, Bill Clinton has a monument in Pristina. I will be sure to see the monument next to Bill Clinton's monument in Pristina and the monument of Vojislav Seselj, because he has contributed most to the SRS policy of what we have in Kosovo today. When you talk about our relationship with the SPS, I have a perfectly correct relationship with the SPS. I have chosen Mr. Veljko Odalovic here, who sits in the hall, to be a coalition partner. I am knowingly working with him on what is called the European path of Serbia. I recommend that you be in good relations with him, because those who cannot cross the censorship in Vranjska Banja can next time from Veljko Odalovic at least get permission to watch the assembly sessions from the balcony, when they do not cross the censorship and do not participate in Serbia's parliamentary life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56222	The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56223	Who's going to cross the census and who's going to be able to pass the next election, we'll see when the next election comes. I just want to say one thing about this last exhibit. I wouldn't want to insult you or anything else, but it's really untasteful to raise a monument to Vojislav Seselj especially in The Hague, where you said, in Pristina by Bill Clinton's monument. You know, policymakers in the '90s weren't just members of the SRS. It's very interesting that your perception of the '90s when you put it in a flat or parallel with what you're saying about Veljak Odalovic and all the others who are so dear to you now, and that you butchered, who you cut off the children, who you fired, who you beat into prisons during that unofficial lustration, or what it's called, in 2000, when you came to power and when you went to your adventure with guns and socks on your head, from the federal administration customs and beyond. But it's really degutant to talk about it. I'm interested in something Mrs. Kolundjia said. The effects of the past, in the absence of arguments, you always call on them when we try to talk about the perspective of Serbia that you provide and you guarantee and you provide. Here today, about the effects of the past, you were the first to speak. The SRS has disputed the level of excise duty and you will give us the right to freedom to talk about it, but I personally believe, as well as my colleagues, that we have been in the topic all along, broadly, but we have been in the subject. We also talked about the effects of these excises, who's going to pay them and how they're going to pay for them. And then you tell us - what are the effects of the past, citizens don't want the past. Maybe the citizens didn't want the past, you chose them in 2008 and brought them back to the government. I agree with you. The fact that the citizens didn't want you to impose on them in 2008. You've formed a government for two months, the way you formed it. For eight years, you've spit on SPS from every possible political weapon. We didn't do it. You've been given a mandate to change Serbia. You mutilated Serbia, at least that, you'll understand what I'm saying, what's left of Serbia. We're talking about where Serbia is better. We're talking about where Serbia is better. Serbia doesn't need to be Russian Governor, nobody said that here in the SRS. (National MP Srdjan Milivojevic from the post: Sam Tomislav Nikolic. "Gandi from Bajcetina" has nothing to do with the SRS anymore. (President: I ask the MPs not to address them directly and to abolish the dialogue. ) Apparently that the position, the meaning and meaning of our economic co-operation with Russia he didn't even understand at the time, the man had no identity at the time, obviously. We believed he had, but it wasn't, what to do, it was a mistake. If it's our sin, forgive us, but we have the cheek. We, unlike him and his, who now jump here when morals are mentioned, have remained principled. You'll respect that. You may not like our ideology, but the principle of SRS in Serbia will respect everyone. We talked about which policy Serbia is better with. I ask you what kind of certainty Serbia has with the policy that you are offering, that Serbia lives off the story of European perspectives? You were just talking about lies, about lies. Well, in 2000, you promised them the EU in 2006, so in 2012, and now you speculate with 2020. Turkey has been waiting 40 years for it to be an EU member, no longer interested in the EU. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic: 12 years old. ) Mr Milivojevic, read a little, and you will see how long Turkey is waiting to be an EU member after you promote the EU. You don't know anything, and you're promoting. That's Serbia's problem. Now Turkey is not interested in the EU. And why would she be interested? It has 10% growth in gross domestic product at year-on-year, and the EU 1st percent, at the bottom of the world scale when global growth is made. What would Turkey go there to pay for European fiscal and political bahanalia? She doesn't care. Why would Turkey do that? But it's not Turkey's agenda theme. What kind of certainty does Serbia have with you? Is this a predictable tax system, Mrs. Kolundjia? Will investors come to Serbia because of this excise policy? Well, he won't. It's a dispute, which you don't know how to run a policy that you declare to stand up for. The investor won't come to a state that has a million illegal buildings, and six or seven years ago you passed a law guaranteeing legalization. They won't come, because after 10 years, you don't have an orderly real estate pad. They will not come with these principles of business in Serbia! They will not come with this level of judicial protection in Serbia. They won't come with this kind of anti-monopoly policy. That's not why investors are coming. You know who's coming to us? Only those who pay them 10,000 jobs come. You know why? Because their smart countries don't give it to them, so our representatives boasted – well, we brought them, they fled from Naples, they came to us here to Serbia. Well, they got away because they're not crazy about giving them what you're giving them here, but they're not about economic certainty, they're about the political promotion of some coalition partners. Now you may not be comfortable with what I'm saying, but it's a reality in Serbia. In that Nitex, which Beneton came to, and you gave 10,000 per worker, every fifth employee stayed at the firm, and the question is how many of them are going to stay and stay there. Why would they work under the conditions that will be offered to them? What gives them the guarantee that they will remain there when they are obliged to pay by job as much as in Serbia pays every small and medium-sized enterprise of all these years, financed by this country, which every 1st or 10th VAT is paid, regardless of the fact that the state is the generator of liquidity and that the state owes the most to the private sector. And you boast that you provide them with liquidity loans, in a country where two-thirds of the economy has not built standards to export to the EU. I ask where are the effects of the contract you signed with them? And so, when we talk about the future, we think you can't offer her the future, because of the political profile, because of the policy you offer and the failure to find in that policy you offer. Serbia must break up with a 10-year-old policy because it has not given effect. The fact that we got a white Schengen, but today 300,000 people come out of Serbia less annually, according to official customs data, because they have nothing to come up with. This is the European Serbia that you offered and provided after 10 years, compared to Serbia offered by the SRS, policies "in and in their beaks". Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56224	First he has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56225	Mr. Novakovic, the situation is very simple. We have achieved what we planned to accomplish today. There is great ratings, people had the opportunity to see everything, and I am very glad that as representatives of Euro-Atlantic parties in Serbia, Mrs Nada Kolundzija and Mr, "the other self" Boris Tadic, Srdjan Milivojevic, does not say spit out the president. Why? The amendment was only intended to support what Mr. Kasalovic said in December and you all voted for it. I wanted the citizens to see that it took you six months to say -- what we voted for in December, nothing good, and then you bled that it had to go through. What did I prove? That your thought process depends on that button in Brussels. So what was ideal in December of the month, today is a disaster, nothing good. The only constant is DS. What they say, it's law, it's democracy, it's light, it's darkness, it's sadness, it's misery, it's wealth. We've done this job, we've proven it effectively. Since high ratings are high, I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when you see the MPs of the government and in your municipality the committees of the parties that make up power, ask them if there is a difference between "mercedes" and "fice"! If they tell you there's no difference, then get your car trash ready and take his good car. I would ask you, Boris Tadic, to be calm. Steady! You see how restless this one is, as if Boki was 13, and here he is playing Boris Tadic, chief ideologist of the DS. I am delighted when the ideology of the DS dam and represent Srdjan Milivojevic and Mrs. Nada Kolundžija. Cameramani, look what's left of the DS, the gromada, the people who have the bleeding to the last excise dinar! They need excise, they need to take, they're low. And the whole European path comes down – there are few of them. And where are you citizens? You're not in perception. You're in the perception before the elections, that you're being deceived, if you can continue to make a mistake by believing in the end of the world or wonder. So, what's the miracle of something good happening in Serbia with Srdjan Milivojevic? If I were that authority, Mr. Milivojevic, how do you represent 30 months of participation of the SRS in power, do you know if you were to get out of prison? I would never let you out of prison, by law. Well, I know the consequences you can cause. Do you know what happens to that kind of free radical? Well, that's a medical problem, you know that? So, why was the kidnapping operation done?- I'm sorry. You bought people to avoid jeopardizing the suicide path to the EU! There are no these, two days ago they defended the EU in terms of excise policy, in 58 a man began to think for himself. What my Nishli would say is, "He's very smart, he's thinking with his brain," but not until he's 58 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56226	Please finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56227	I'm sorry for jeopardizing your trip to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56228	Thank you. This time provides for the possibility of an SRS hearing being used, as well as an authorised representative. The word is, first of all, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56229	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, so, someone's time is definitely up, so say those who measure the time here. I'm just going to take this time right to the replica, because there's no replica on the line and I'm going to remind you, Mr. Krasic, when you were in power and your party, I was in prison 46 times. Thank God, I came out healthy and whole, right and normal, which is what I want for you, and on the other hand, I have to tell you, when I got out of prison, your party was still in power. Then all of Serbia was in prison and no one knew who was in prison and who was a free man. And when you were in power and your party, those big pensions you're talking about, they weren't accepted. Thirteen pensions didn't take my late father, my mother didn't even take a pension. When you talk about these benefits and the liquids you've been developing during your term, I'm glad at least when I say the word "Kuman's Agreement" you at least put your head down, because you may well have said, you know, I was a "five-colonant," because I was fifth in a column of sugar and milk, oil and especially gasoline, but when your party's effect is measured, I've always been against you and your ideology, because I'm going to have a chance to see your ideology this year in Suffocation, unfortunately. Thank you. (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56230	Mr Milivojevic informed you that he was in prison, that he was standing in line. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56231	Mr. Chairman, I think it might take a little while, despite my always preparedness to allow the discussion to go beyond what's subject, but I don't think it should go any lower than politeness. So I really don't think it's right to let someone because they don't know how I am to present my own ideology personally insults their political opponents. Of course, he cannot offend someone who speaks more of himself than he tries to offend. In that sense, I do not feel offended, but I think it is unacceptable for Serbian citizens to allow themselves, in this way, allegedly facing arguments, in fact at a very low, personal level, to be dealt with with by political opponents. Serbian citizens assess whether it is good for me to defend DS ideas. The DS, too, assesses it, but I think it's obvious for the DS that the gentleman who previously spoke about the ideology of the SRS defends the ideology of the SRS because I think it brings points of DS. I really think the way he's personally trying to insult a political opponent is something we shouldn't allow here. If we go back to the amendment, then our reason for today's adoption of these amendments and the additions of the Law, and above all comes from the fact that we respect our international obligations, we have signed the Association and Stabilisation Agreement and the Transition Trade Agreement, and these agreements result in our obligation to implement an excise policy in this way. If someone thinks politics can be led without making any mistake in walking, then let's see what that policy is like and how it's run. Of course, we will always listen carefully to what this policy would look like to make no failure, but of course we stand up for it and that is why we will vote for this law, because we want to respect our international obligations. This law is a alignment with those international obligations. If someone thinks it's a wrong thought process, let them interpret it any way they want, but the only thing I don't think is that it's not good talking about anyone who's at such a low level that there's a debate on a law that really matters. We can talk here about whether the excise policy is best found and asked for an answer in order to protect the standard of citizens, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to enable these citizens to have a standard in health, education, education, higher education and in many other activities where they have the right to receive services, and they can only receive them if there are funds in the budget for this, and the way to provide funds for that is also an excise policy. Now we can talk about whether there is a balance between what is needed to enable citizens to achieve their rights cheaper, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to get everything that is important for them. It is the level at which we should conduct a debate, not a level that shows that ideology is destruction, denial, insult, an attempt to disqualify an opponent in every way without a fundamental argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56232	Thank you. Before we go any further, just to let you know that we're on direct television broadcast by 8:30, another minute, two. (Employee Zoran Krasic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure – you cannot. The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic, as well as by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56233	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a good part of this debate, I've listened to everything and everything. I can't say there haven't been any discussions about the law itself, but I think a lot of things are misread and misrepresented. Some say that the consequence of this law is to comply with EU rules, I cannot say that it is not true. I'm just asking a question - how do you do it? Some say the EU is blackmailing us. Everyone somehow avoids saying that today we are increasing the excise duty on oil and oil derivatives, that it is not an EU requirement, but exclusively that oil derivatives of domestic and foreign production must be equalised in the treatment on the market. If the government were successful, it would apply the excise duty applied to import derivatives produced in Serbia. Unfortunately, we have a failed government and now we have these consequences. When someone says excise goods, excises are introduced as fiscal or tax giving, however you like, on luxury. There, motor gasoline were the primary in the case of derivatives because the car was considered a luxury tax at the time. Today we also have excises on other oil derivatives, specifically diesel fuel. We don't want to talk about the EURO diesel. It's mostly used in our car market. It is used less in passenger traffic, less in freight and at least in agricultural production. However, we are now going to apply the excise duty applied to the EVRO diesel to regular D2. Mr. Minister, an authorised representative, said it was not a major increase. I can't share your opinion because the way I make the price isn't as small as you want to present it. Therefore, the initial price is that producer's price or import price. At the import price, customs duties are charged and that is the initial price, then excise duty is charged, and a value added tax is added to that excise duty. When the product moves towards retail, or last in a number of traders, the margin is charged and the value added tax is re-billed on the margin, so from two, two and a half initial dinars, you get four in a row. Use that same progression when it comes to inputs when someone makes something, then from half a dinar, which seems to you a little bit, in some initial series of making some raw material to the ultimate product of those half dinars grows to four or five. These are rules that have been in force since there's been a state trying to regulate its fiscal system, which is trying to take care of the budget. It's about her today and here. There have also been stories about what the purpose of such an amendment and the addition of the Law is. I will read you the argument that the Government has given, signed by Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr Cvetkovic – the amendment is not accepted, because this amendment proposes to reduce the amount of excise duty on all types of motor gasoline and all kinds of diesel fuel compared to the proposed legal solution, which could result in a nicer word being found, as a result, a fall in excise duty revenue from oil products in the republican budget. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that is why I doubt the honesty of those who propose the law to us, those who will vote in favour of this law, that it is only an agreement with EU legislation. It's the budget. Why is that? Under the current law, there were two types of excise duties and budget revenue was based on two types of excise duties – on fuel produced in the country and on imported fuels. Some result was some amount of money that should be in the budget. If we already wanted to agree, then we had to find some environment and make the same income that the state planned when the Budget Law was passed. No, we're changing now, we're increasing the revenue that the state is going to make in the budget, or at least we're trying to do that. So the question is, how much was NIS's participation, which is constantly being blamed, at least from some parliamentary groups, for some of the benefits of selling oil and oil derivatives, how much was it, how much was it in the retail market, how much was it in production, and how much was imports? Nobody told us that. We don't have those parameters. We cannot see the economic analysis and justification of such changes and the addition of laws. What has this state, this government done in these four years, the fourth one already started to collect so much excise income, and it doesn't give citizens anything? As much as you try to show that this is so, that you give something more, you absolutely can't convince anyone in Serbia anymore because taxes, excises and various other fiscal givings are a kind of racket that the state collects so that it can provide funds for its operation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, regulates society, regulates rules, establish order, law, etc. Most importantly, it is required to ensure that of those same ones that it collects taxes, to give them economic independence, to enable them to invest, to make money. We now have a fall of employees. With each downfall, employees are growing pressure on the Republic of Serbia's budget to settle the lack of money for pensions. Since we also have a drop in revenue in the budget, the pressure on the state to borrow more and more from banks, whether domestic or foreign. Whatever's more in debt with the banks, the credits are more expensive for both the economy and the population, and then we're spinning in one vicious circle, because after every full diameter of that circle there's a new borrowing going on, there's a new deficit in the budget. When the debate was in principle, I asked one of the most common questions – why not use the fact that we are a transiting country, there was no answer to that question. It doesn't matter. We'll charge them toll. He'll have to somehow maintain, Mrkonjic, these roads, he'll have to harass the MPs on the billing ramps, ask for a blood count, etc., that's important. The state doesn't behave at all in a way to take advantage of every advantage and situation we have here on the market. There have been stories here that domestic goods are favored here, with policy so far. I can't say that that's not true, but I can say that our citizen doesn't have one culture that's true in these countries of the EU, and you won't sell anything that's from imports, at least it was cheaper, even if it was about the same quality, as you're going to have to sell their domestic product first, because they're not going to buy another one, so when they disappear they're buying from imports. These are all problems that I may not be able to blame this government for, but they are facts. Maybe with that story about the EU a little bit too much, we made them think differently, that everything that comes from there is the best thing, but I'm not going to spread that story. Of course, the government is also to blame for the current high price of oil and oil derivatives on the market. We didn't give up the monopoly. We continued to apply the monopoly on the market, although the monopoly was officially abolished. So far, nothing could be imported into Serbia from oil derivatives, which was produced in Serbia. Now it can, but the conditions for importing are such that only three or four companies, two or three men, who own these companies, can do so. Then don't be surprised the fuel prices aren't dropping, even though the dinar has increased compared to the euro by 10%. After the NBS dinar's intervention, he again set out to boost his attitude towards the euro. Don't be surprised that oil derivatives don't fuck, even though the price has dropped by almost $20 a barrel. Don't be surprised the price of oil derivatives doesn't fall even though the dollar is on the lowest branches in the last three years. Prices are still rising. Open the market. Let anyone in. Pay him what you have to charge. Take it to the border, if you have to, but let people work. Don't let a group of individuals, using previously acquired wealth, block everything in Serbia. We also talked about a monopoly on the import of repromary for agriculture. Well, here's a monopoly on oil and oil derivatives. Well, how do you expect our industry to develop? We can't be competitive. Here, I explained at the beginning of the discussion how the price is formed. It also forms the price of any service. Therefore, wherever transport appears, wherever an oil derivative is used, you influence the price of service. At the cost of the service, you're affecting the retail price. And who's gonna pay that retail price? Well, the last user, it's a citizen. That's the problem. Citizens don't have any money anymore. That's why you lack money in your budget. No more. You have a certain amount of money to operate on the market and you can go down on your head, you can't invent more unless you print the money. So we have to turn to something that is healthy, which is, to try to increase production in Serbia, to try to increase the number of employees, but not to pay them. Because you know what, and that Beneton story is ridiculous. It's very funny to me, because anyone today can open a Beneton factory here in Serbia, pay the license in that name and adhere to their standardisation on quality. And it's "Beneton" and no one's going to argue with you. Now somebody tell me, so out of 100 people, 98 knows how to open a factory if you give it 10,000 euros per employee. And not only will he know how to open it, he'll know he's taking her. Well, then what's the point? Why are we doing what we're doing? We've broken a fortune trying to train the Fiat. Well, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in six months, and in a year. After, here we are, three and a half years from this project, where are we? At the beginning of the project! But that's why we spent close to two billion euros, because we don't focus money on what's worth it in Serbia, but we tell stories about some better life and some other interests where we shouldn't be at all. I don't see any other reason. All these empty stories and colorful lies, that we are passing this law to harmonize our Serbian legislation with EU legislation. (President: 15 minutes have been used. ) It's just used, and I still have the time of power, although I'll be done in a minute. (President: You took advantage of that. ) It can also be done for the parliamentary group. So harmonising with this law has nothing to do with it. We're increasing excise duties because there's not enough money in the budget. She doesn't have enough money because the government isn't able to fill the budget she planned for herself. I don't think, despite this increase in excise duties, the inflow in the budget is going to be increased, and that's because we don't have almost any economy anymore, we don't have enough workers to produce anything. Simply put, we no longer have money among citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56234	Thank you. National MPs Radojko Obradovic, Arsen Đuric, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milos Radulovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you're going to give me the floor today to talk about a law that's on the agenda, because in the last two hours we've talked about ideologies and phraseologies, and yet citizens are very interested in the subject that's on the agenda today, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. What did the government want with these amendments and additions to the Excise Act? According to the DSS, two things. The first is that for all types of motor gasoline, a single excise duty of 49.50 dinars per litre is established, while for diesel fuel, the load is 37 dinars per litre. The second thing that is very important and should be mentioned is that the government actually wanted to excise on the same cost, as it is said, to further increase, all of it, justifying, above all, the EU's demand. We have now heard here that the European Commission has said that Serbia has violated the Transition Trade Agreement. Of course, that document of the SAA was signed in December when this amendment was voted on, so we can't say that now we realize that this document exists and that it is a newly created document. No, gentlemen, it was signed in December. Some didn't know, some didn't want to know. I don't know, and I don't get into it, but I can see that some of them have had a lot of faith in their coalition partners. They don't seem to have it anymore today. Secondly, the EU, gentlemen, does not say at any time that breaking the SAA means that you need to increase the excise prices further. In particular, there is no reason why Mr. Minister and the government's rapporteur here said – we need people, for roads, for helping children with child benefits, for child protection, for pensions, for social contributions. It is a reason why MPs should not talk about here, it needs ministers among themselves to agree, as they run their private businesses so successfully and to reach 800 million in a year, they can behave as well when they run the state. But what does the government care about is that excises like this will contribute to an increase in the price of gasoline, i.e. diesel. That increase won't be small. The gas will go up for 4.50 dinars, plus VAT, that's seven dinars a liter. Diesel will collect for just over two dinars, plus VAT, that's about five dinars. With all that, we need to know that when he collects fuel, all the prices go up. And the fruits, and the vegetables, and the produce, which are brought, and the price of transport. This speeds up one inflation point, which is already large in Serbia, and everyone tells you that, and citizens in particular. And this isn't a good move. Of course, for the state, if you're looking at the shortsighted, this is going to be a good move, because it's going to put 10.7 billion dinars into the budget. The budget is obviously empty, and there's no place left to load. The credit problem is getting big because no one will give you credit anymore, and the pockets of citizens are also empty. It is a shame that someone who calls himself – the Socially Responsible Government, all the burden of the crisis and their personal incompetence is transferred to the back of citizens. You will allow, citizens have already received costs of plus 450 euros per car in various ways in this year – license plate registration. So, in various ways, 450 euros per car, plus the price of non-stop fuel, even though the price of crude oil is falling, and all of this is equal to that for citizens to experience the car as a luxury. Not as a need, but as a luxury. It was only at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and it was in the 1990s when he returned. In March, for example, Croatians took off their excise duties on fuel by two euro-cent per litre and, when you look at today's Serb excises, those less than 15 per cent to 20 per cent in Croatia than in Serbia. This helped the Croatian government to help its citizens. And how does the Serbian government help its citizens? I'm not surprised because the president of the Serbian state says he's a pro-Serbian president, not a Serbian president. There are fewer excises everywhere in the region than in Serbia, and the government needs to increase them further. However, we have already absorbed here how it came to be that Serbia has these selective excises and whether they were good for Serbia during this six-month period or not, I will not go back to it. I want to talk about the amendment that the DSS Group has submitted. We believe that the price increases really must come to an end once. There's no one left to pay for what you're planning to increase. We believe that no one is forcing you, and yes, we will explain the arguments that we think it is, excises must remain at the level that they were at before we entered the amendments and the additions of this law. Therefore, the state of Serbia must reduce excise duties on fuel and must level them with excise duties in the region. This is how we offer that the Serbian budget is still charged and that citizens pay for cheaper fuel. If excises were removed, fuel consumption would increase. We have the exact math. To fill Serbia's budget in the same way, the exact same amount of funds would enter Serbia's budget if they cut excise duties, as you plan to increase them, therefore, spending would increase and Serbian citizens would pay cheaper fuel. The state would win, and we'd get citizens. We'd both be happy. That's possible and that would be good for both of us. As the minister very picturesquely expressed himself – they can "and goats and money". Secondly, foreigners who pass through Serbia, because Serbia is only a transit, do not think that besides the most expensive tolls in this part of the world, they pay even the most expensive fuel that is of poor quality and therefore they do not buy fuel at our pumps. The cost and the funds that would be paid and which would remain in Serbia, and that would mean the budget. This way, with our pride, we come into a situation where these funds don't go into the budget at all. On the other hand, do not forget that it is time for annual holidays and that a large number of foreigners pass through Serbia. The fact is that our citizens who travel abroad, and travel their cars, fill their tanks only to the border and buy cheaper and more quality fuel there. Start from charging their tanks in Serbia with lower excise duties and cheaper prices. It seems to me that the government is shortsighted and I think the arguments we've made here stand. At least they're standing there to think about it. It's at least enough to convert them into digits. If that's your problem, I have finished math. I can offer you that finished math. I believe that excise duty should be reduced, fuel must be cheaper, and I argue that all the funds that are trying to push themselves into the budget could be made much simpler, and that citizens and states would be more satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56236	A total of eight minutes and 40 seconds. , six minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56237	The result of our amendment to Article 1 is also an amendment to Article 2 which has its name – indexation. For the sake of these people in Serbia who do not understand what this is about, it is the harmonisation of the dinar amount of excise duty with movement, as it is now said, with the growth of the consumer price index and it is determined that the first harmonisation goes from January 1st to next year. Since we want to keep six categories of oil derivatives with different excises, depending on the quality, we have asked this amendment to virtually erase what the Government is proposing, and it proposes three categories. That's the natural consequence. I have to comment that a picture has been created that this law is being changed because of the harmonisation of the amount of excises of low-quality oil derivatives with high-quality oil derivatives of Euro 5. That's not true, that's the first thing. The second thing, Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the amendment laws also speak of some kind of indexation for cigarettes and some other products. So someone concluded in June that a mistake was made when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act was adopted in December 2010. Just to remind you, neither in the December 2010, nor in this reasoning of this bill, did you specify either a European standard or anything that would be binding under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And finally, let me tell you, calling on that Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a simple lie. (President Gordana Komic: Two minutes. ) Liberalisation was carried out in December 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56238	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56239	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3, this is a member of the 5th previous law, and we believe that it should be deleted. The reason why it should be deleted is that this government is practically at the end of the mandate, that the budget rebalance has not been implemented, and we think that there is really no reason to discuss the date of the next alignment in such a way, especially, which I say again, thank God that the mandate of this government is deleted but the effects of this government's work will not be erased, which the citizens will long remember and will live long with the consequences of this policy. Because these are just some of the ones to talk about, the effect is that the state is no longer in Kosovo and Metohija today, because the negotiators negotiate under the flags of the Cypriot state on behalf of this government. Then, every law that's passed here rips the state apart and takes away the prerogative state, we don't need to talk about national values anymore. This government literally destroyed the economy, we don't need to talk anymore, today we've mentioned several times how foreign investors are brought here, giving them 10,000 euros each job they open. My lords, after three years they paid off, that worker they hired does not receive those 10,000 euros from this country, they make a clean profit and leave this country most often. I don't want to talk about 400,000 lost jobs, during this government's term, that's not what this government told us. That's what some others, their international friends, told us. I do not want to talk about the salaries in Europe at least for the mandates of this government, which has promised European standards to citizens, and I want to mention the fact that citizens when Vojislav Kostunica left power in 2008, had 100 euros in their pocket more than today. I will not mention the fact that 700,000 citizens of this country live below the poverty line, and nearly half of Serbia's citizens are poor. I don't want to mention the fact that prices go wild every day and citizens can't really afford to follow those prices anymore. And then comes what's very important -- we have the wealth of individual ministers, we have corruption in the form of public procurement, corruption in all possible places, and we have borrowings, borrowings, borrowings, loans, loans, loans... Here, gentlemen, no one is ashamed to say that he owed the state to Serbia for as much and as much as he happily announces to us, we gave you a wonderful proposal. It's the success of this government. So I don't think there's really any point in talking about terms, dates and times anymore, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56240	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute was used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56241	I thank Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where we have provided for the deadline of application of the law to be moved to 2013, because such a time is and such are the circumstances today in the state that this increase is unwarranted, given what the paying power of our citizens is. We actually had good intentions to help the government with this amendment and, in some ways, to get her out of a very unpleasant situation. At the same time, we tried to iron out a discrepancy in words between the Prime Minister and the finance minister. Here, let's see what this is about. I have before me the exposés of the Prime Minister, this reconstructed, so on 14 March 2011, you, Mr. Minister, were present, the Prime Minister says this way -- "Serbian citizens should live better today, right now. And, we'll do everything we can to make it so. So in order to achieve these objectives and improve the standard of citizens, the government will in the coming months, which are ahead of us, implement the economic policy measures that will enable them to do so, and now it lists what, "better life." '"Now you see, the improvement of standards implies that wages go up. And with us, it's the other way around. The improvement of standards implies that prices go down. And with us, it's the opposite, it's the best example. It's very difficult to explain who's right now, whether the Prime Minister, who promises a better standard, or whether the finance minister is right when he increases the crisis. It's a big misunderstanding. That is why we felt that this amendment simply harmonizes with the Prime Minister's statement of a better life, improves citizens' standards, and somehow curbs the finance minister from doing what he does to Serbian citizens. What's he doing? He's doing what he's doing to get his hands in the pockets of Serbian citizens, who are empty anyway. It's a simple case. Once these changes are adopted and the Excise Act with the same amount of money you'll buy less fuel and travel less kilometers. Is that an increased standard of citizens or is it reduced? It's a similar story with electricity, about the number of kilowatts, and the population list. Is the goal of a developed society to spend less or more? What speeds up production? When you spend more, not less. Suma Sumarum, when it comes together and looks at how real things are, that's the story that was told half an hour ago, so we were definitely back in the '90s. Soon because of these prices you will have again on the streets of the bottle, because the people have no money, there will be no more problems importing, but the people will have money to buy a liter, because the pumps do not pour less than three liters. He'll have enough money to buy a citizen a liter of fuel, pour it into his car and drive ten kilometers. Now, these are the effects of the work of a government like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56242	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 5th amendment. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56243	Here's another example, in this article 5, we predicted that this law would take effect six months after the day of publication in the Official Messenger. The government responded as she replied, but here's the deal. You see, you know that up until a few days ago there was a pretty big strike for farmers, and that farmer strike was organized because of the government's unfulfilled promise of subsidies. In a very simple way, you have managed to reverse it, promising that by the end of the year these subsidies for agricultural land will be paid to farmers. There were a lot of misunderstandings, so in the end, at least by writing the press, it turned into an internal account of the "ex minister" and "now minister". You see, in this period, since you promised these subsidies, which I hope once, and I'm not so sure, will reach the farmers by the end of the year, but at least one good part of these subsidies will eat an increase in fuel prices. By increasing diesel and excise prices, the farmer must process that surface, sow something, must light up the tractor, turn on the combination, must spend oil on some other agricultural devices. By increasing the price of the cheapest drug D2, you are slowly eating subsidies. So, you're gonna give them the bridge, but you've already taken it to the potter. Why is that a condition? Because you've been unreally planning the budget, because you have no idea what the real potential of this country is. I also have the exposés of the Prime Minister here, and the current finance minister from 2008. What's unrealistic about it? It is unrealistic that at that time it was said that GDP growth would be 7%. And when it was a while ago, not only was it not 7%, but it was negative, so you faked a hundred, so when you asked for an average, what a fall it was, then you said it was 3.1 and the world said it's not, but it's twice as much as 6.2%. So, day after day, from move to move, lie to lie. So, what now? We increase excise duties, our hands in citizens' pockets, we take commercial loans from commercial banks, and there's a growing choice, and these interest rates are like flea market, the state can no longer pay them off, less and less people do, you promised 200 thousand new jobs, and 400,000 people are out of work. Well, how can these people pay taxes if they don't? How do you plan to charge the budget? Here's how you're introducing excises, you're going to introduce excise on legalization, on a lot of other things. No measure, no scruples, no honor, no honesty, no kidnapping, just to survive a black oligarchy! So did the government that had 26 members, and so does this government that has 17 members, the volume of consumption is the same, the waste is the same, and the citizens are getting poorer and more hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56244	Two minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. This was the last amendment to the debate in detail, the last amendment to the search. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? The word has been made by Minister Suleyman Ugljanin, but I'm only asking you to sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56245	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to all the discussions, both yesterday and today. And we've really heard a lot of findings about the state of our country. A difficult economic situation, a difficult social situation and many other diseases that are actually the cause of this marathon long-term transition, which our country is going through. On the one hand, they all spoke correctly and all expressed regret about the state of both the country and the citizens. On the other hand, we heard and saw, we also got amendments that are actually trying to bring the structure into line by taxing oil derivatives to reduce excise duties. That sounds cute. However, it seems to be a reminder that a severe chronic patient with malignant infiltration would try to cure sweet syrups or glucose infusion. The government has defined itself as a little more effective. This is quite painful, however, has proved to be a serious disease like this, and in general, bitter drugs are much more effective. As a responsible government, we believe that in this state, simply, this bill of amendments and additions to the Excise Act, chemo for the treatment of this whole thing. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-09-0.u56246	This concludes the review of the amendments, and I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Tuesday, June 14, 2011, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you all. For today, we'll finish our work and see you on Voting Day, Tuesday, June 14, 2011 at 10:00 p.m.
