ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I called for this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by the President of the European Parliament, his Excellency, Prof. Jirji Buzek. I am honored to welcome on behalf of the Members of the People's Parliament his Excellency, Professor. Jirji Buzek, President of the European Parliament. I also welcome his Excellency Mr. Vensan Dežer, head of the European Union Delegation in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Roxandu Nincic, head of the Mission of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, Mr. Alexander Stucman, political adviser, Mr. Marsin Graevski, head of the media team, Mr. Arnoldas Prenskevicius, advisers, as well as other members of the delegation present at the Grand Hall gallery of the House of the National Assembly. I also welcome their Excellencys and representatives of the embassies of the Republic of Greece, the Republic of France, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovakia, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Portugal, the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Bulgaria. I'd like his Excellency, Professor. Jirji Buzek, President of the European Parliament, to take his word. Here you go, Mr. Buzek.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62856	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs of the National Assembly, dear friends of ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to be in Belgrade today. In addition, I am honored to be the first President of the European Parliament to address the elected representatives of the people of Serbia. I'm speaking to you at the right time. Over the last few years, your country has firmly confirmed its European commitment. In 2008, you had two elections. On both occasions, your citizens voted decisively for the European future, our common future. Three weeks ago, the European Commission delivered its opinion on Serbia's EU membership application and I warmly welcome the Commission's recommendation to approve the EU candidate status of your country. Given that it reflects the position of most European Parliament MPs, my colleagues in the European Parliament, they support obtaining this status of Serbia. Serbia has worked hard over the past few years. You have continued to implement reform in the judiciary, you have strengthened the rule of law and you have applied other criteria from Copenhagen. You have made progress in fighting corruption and organised crime at all levels. However, this is not yet the end of the road and there is still hard work left in these areas. You have also taken important steps towards establishing a functioning market economy, which is not easy. I know from my personal experience. Despite the global financial crisis, you have managed to maintain a level of macroeconomic stability. However, increasing competitiveness and combating unemployment remains a priority, as is the case in many of our Member States, and is certainly a priority for our citizens because they need jobs. They must achieve prosperity in the future. Perhaps it is equally important that you acted positively in favour of reconciliation, in the area of reconciliation by adopting right in this House, the Srebrenica Declaration. You also arrested the remaining fugitives for war crimes. By bringing Goran Hadzic and Ratko Mladic to justice, Serbia has taken a major step towards ensuring its European future. As President Tadic said, these arrests are a new chapter in Serbia's history and a new era of responsibility. We all congratulated on the courage of this move, a very brave move. Dear colleagues, respected friends, it is doubtless that Serbia today is completely different from Serbia in the 1990s. Serbia today is facing the future, a country with highly educated young people yearning for modernisation. They are crying out for the European future. It is this desire for success that has made the new generation of Serbs successful on the European stage, that has allowed them to succeed in Europe, whether it is the sphere of art, music, as you know very well in the field of sport. I don't want to give you examples, simple examples, but I've played tennis before and you can have it in mind, you have to know that I've been playing tennis for decades. I am no longer 20 years old like when I started playing tennis and I know what that means for many in Europe, many young people in Europe, what the name Novak Djokovic means for them. I watched the last round of the Grand Symphony, semifinals with Roger Federer. For example, all the time I was sitting in front of a TV monitor and the amazing words your player Roger Federer sent me, I'm sorry, Roger, after beating him in one extraordinary match. You knew that he was losing in the fourth set, serving Roger Federer's ball, excellent player and Djokovic managed to survive, he was able to reverse the situation because he was convinced that he could indeed do it. It's very important to have such power in us, it was the same in my country 22 years or 31 years ago. I was involved in all the changes, from the very beginning in my country, it was not easy to say, we would like to change our country, but to do so. That is why I respect everything you do in your country and I am convinced that in the future you will be on the pages of Serbia's history and European history. Your generation of politicians and your generation of young people who want Serbia to move forward towards a real, full European future. Because a great lesson, an important lesson for Serbia and Europe, is hard work, diligence, determination that can give success. Serbia is a country that must not allow demons from the past to stand in the way of fulfilling its dreams. I wouldn't want to go back too far to my personal past, I'd rather go on. Dear MPs, it is your duty to help the Serbian people achieve their good future, a positive future. What are further steps? We're wondering what we have to do, what's the most important thing we have to do? I can only say that we can provide our own examples. I can say that we stand by your side, shoulder by shoulder, ready to give you help, if you need our help. If you want to cooperate, we're open. We'd like to help you, if possible. In my country, without the help of international democratic countries, outside our country, democracy, Western democracy, whatever its name is, would not be possible and could not change my country. I remember very well how things were going in the early '90s. So, what are further steps? How can you continue to make progress? How can we and Serbia establish a real partnership? The path to integration and regional integration is through reconciliation. We have to go back to the past, but we have to make peace with what happened in the past. Serbia has been through a lot and the fact is it promotes reconciliation in the region, and that is, in Serbia's interest, to advance its efforts to normalise relations with Pristina. Let me mention the capital of Kosovo. A new crisis that follows violence in northern Kosovo, I will say openly, is unacceptable for all of us. If we really think about the future and the real integration into the EU, I want a common future and I believe in a common future. It is unacceptable, because this is not the way we deal with the difficult situation in the EU. I was deeply concerned when more than 20 people were injured at the end of September, including representatives of KFOR's peacekeeping forces. We must not allow the spirits of the past to affect peace today. We need to measure dialogue and mutual well-meaning, honesty. You can really do that. I'm confident and you've shown that it is possible. This year, talks between Belgrade and Pristina under the auspices of the EU were constructive. They've reached agreements on several very important issues. It is important that these arrangements and agreements are now modelled and further constructive steps, which involve concrete dialogue, and do. Of course, we have some difficulties on our side, as usual. All sides must play a role in easing tension in northern Kosovo and providing long-term solutions to peace and stability, to allow free movement of people and goods. It is a commitment to further progress towards the EU. It is not only in the interests of the parties participating in the dialogue, but it is in the interests of the entire region and of all those living in Kosovo. I deeply believe that Serbia can, in this respect, make a positive contribution to further integration on this continent. Dear friends, reconciliation does not mean forgetting the past. Remember, remember the past and learn lessons. True reconciliation means that the mail is given and that we remember all those who have been killed. It is important that Serbia and Croatia continue to work, not to slow down recent steps towards historic reconciliation. Many meetings between President Tadic and President Josipovic show that you are all committed to European integration and my sincere hope is that all these efforts will continue in the same direction. The story of Europe is a story of reconciliation. European integration allowed France and Germany to settle after World War II. They have become an economic driver, an engine driver of Europe and a locomotive of the entire Eurointegration process until today. Expansion thus helped Poland and Germany to reconcile their past. You have to understand that, that you understand. The relations between my countrymen, the Poles and the Germans, after the war were difficult. At one point it was necessary, in our historical development, to establish a common border, to divide the border and say – enough, let's stop. It's not easy. Our bishops sent a letter to the German bishops – we forgive and ask forgiveness. Can you imagine that? We suffered so much during the war. Our bishops sent them such a letter. We forgive and ask forgiveness. It wasn't easy and it wasn't easy for a year or two. We worked on it for decades, it didn't work out in a year or two. I can say that at the end of our trip today both EU Member States are and we have good relations, but we still have to think about reconciliation. Every day is the day we have to work on it. We must not take it for granted because it cannot be taken for granted, nor can democracy, nor peace, nor reconciliation. It is very difficult and I think that you are on a good path thanks to your efforts and your presidents who are currently at the head of both Serbia and Croatia. The EU and the European community, the international community must and will do so, to do everything in their power to improve this process. The EU cannot afford to ignore Serbia or the Balkans. That's impossible. We've made this mistake in the past and the consequences have been tragic, but we've learned a lesson, which is also very important to us. Dear colleagues, when I observe your country today, I remember the saying of Ivo Andric, which he often used to describe your country – it is a small country among the worlds, he would speak. But Serbia is not small, first of all, and not among the worlds. Serbia is part of Europe and as part of Europe, Serbia has a great future ahead of it. Serbia is at the heart of decision-making in Europe and is in its hands a decision on the future, its own and European future, because we are making joint decisions on the future and cannot affect our future, Member States and the EU as a whole, unless we make common decisions. European integration is no longer a fantasy for Serbia, it is within your reach, but only by hard work and concrete measures can Serbia maintain its pro-democracy momentum, not only to achieve the European objective, but, above all, for the benefit of your own citizens. You, democratically elected representatives of citizens, MPs, must bear in mind that citizens are what should be your priority, most important. You are, once again, very close to getting candidate status and starting membership negotiations. The key condition is to take concrete steps towards normalising relations with Kosovo. That's one condition, one condition. I know it's not easy, I know it's very good, it's not a simple condition. With this, you will be the leader in the region in the Western Balkans integration process, as the entire Western Balkans in the EU will be incomplete. There's no other solution for us. We must not neglect and we will not ignore Serbia, you are very important to us. You have to believe me, I'm a member of a new Member State and I know the history of my continent, I know my country's history. I know the past, and I know you've been neglected in the past, but that's not gonna happen anymore. It won't be easy, I know, once again, from my personal experience. 30 years ago, I was prime minister of my country and I introduced a series of comprehensive reforms that allowed us to continue European integration and achieve very painful reforms, especially in the short term in the pension system. These were reforms of the pension health system, which had been completely changed, the administration changed. That was useful for thousands and millions of my countrymen, but we closed 22 of the 60 coal mines in my region, from which I came. It was necessary to survive and to keep the coal mine industry. A large number of people were out of work, and it was necessary to make these difficult decisions. You must know that I was very unpopular at that point, but after a few years people realized that it wasn't so bad and that the reforms paid off. Without these reforms, Poland would not be what it is today, a confident, secure country, which is headed by the presidency, which is currently chaired by the EU and currently one of the best economies in the EU. It was necessary to come to something that we could say that reconciliation was between me and my citizens. In the European elections, I received the highest number of votes from all countries. These were elections for the European Parliament. So after a few years they understood that what was done at the beginning was good. Then they didn't know it was good, but after a few years it became clear. That is why I am now President of the European Parliament, because I first had to be elected to my own country for a seat in the European Parliament and I received the largest number of votes in my own country following these incredibly difficult reforms. Like Poland, you're not alone today. The European Union will continue to be with you and you. Over the last 10 years, we have defined about two billion euros for Serbia in the form of loans and grants, 600 billion euros in loans. Serbia is on track today to achieve membership of the European Union. You must continue to work hard. The EU door is still wide open and it is up to you to take this key step. We're waiting to welcome you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62857	I thank his Excellency, Professor. Jirji Buzeku. I hereby conclude the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Members of the People, allow me once again to thank his Excellency, Jirzi Buzek and to conclude the 7th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you. (The session ends at 11.35 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62858	The second session of the Second Regular Session on 3 November 2011 (Nineth Day of Work) (The session began at 14.15 p.m. Nikola Novakovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, chaired the meeting. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62859	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 163 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please check the cards. You have enough information on the MP's own to know whether your card is in the system or not. Please check everyone for yourself. Why is that such a problem? I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, Article 286(2) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the right of the People’s MP to seek the notice and explanation necessary for his conduct in the National Assembly. For a word, according to the order set by the Rules of Procedure, the MPs Riza Halimi, Zoran Shami, Dejan Mirovic and Janko Veselinovic signed up. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62860	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for explanations from Mr. Obradovic's Minister of Education in which way and when he can remove the confusion created by the National Council of Albanians – the Ministry of Education, and regarding the implementation of Article 54(4) and (5). Law on the basis of the education and education system. The National Council addressed the Ministry with a play requiring urgent removal of obstacles, the problems created after the illegal decision of SO Presevo when the appointment of the school board in schools in Orahovica, Miratovac, Reljana in Presevo municipality. The proposals submitted by the National Council in the spirit of the law are not respected, but in order for the situation to be more difficult, the Ministry has not yet delivered an answer to this play for the three months, but therefore a reply was received from a municipal education inspector to whom the ministry appears to have given the case. Since the municipal education inspector appointed local self-government, he actually supported that illegal SO decision and rejected the request of the National Council of Albanians. What's the artificial confusion now? My impression is that it is also created by the representatives of the Ministry of Education in, in my opinion, the illegal interpretation of the provisions of Article 4 and Article 5 54. The law on the foundation of a system of education and education where we know that we have two categories, or two levels. A lower level in which the National Council only gives an opinion in the case of educational and probational work taking place in the language of the minority, and that means when 5% of the teaching departments take place in the language of minorities, then the National Council has the right to give an opinion. In these schools that I have listed, this problem, in two of these schools, teaching takes place in all classes in Albanian, is only one that is directly mentioned in the law, which is the second higher category, the higher level when teaching is performed in most departments in minority language. This artificially creates a dilemma about whether only a lower level should be applied in an Albanian language at a school where the legislator provided only for teaching to take place in one class? He has the right to the National Council to give an opinion, not the higher level where proposals are made in front of local self-government. Now what? Three months have passed as it began with these procedures that I directly met you with, will go months and months and will continue the confusion and prevent the National Council from carrying out the law of intended competence. It devalues to the extreme. Then what do we get? Then who does the National Council serve? Do we just need to tell abroad that we've given minorities national advice or are they really going to comply with the law of intended competence? In this regard, I ask urgently for the minister to give an interpretation and explanation and that this confusion be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62861	The word has Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62862	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed the last weeks of the sad, so to speak, the final policy of this government towards KIM. I say, sad, because our people in KIM are really experiencing very difficult times. Our entire state is in agony, and all because of one of the many years of wrong politics of this government. For nearly four years, the DSS has been persistently trying to reason with the government that KIM's future policy and EU relations policy should change. We have requested and asked for this policy to change not in order for us to give up European integration, but for those integrations to come as well as any other country that has either entered or wants to join the EU. This means without conditions and without any further blackmail from the EU, which other countries of course did not have. Instead, we are witnessing that from day to day, one by one, this government accepts that it gives Kosovo, Pristina institutions all new and new attributes of statehood. We're witnessing that there's absolutely nothing to change there. In other countries, when there is a problem, here's a view of what's going on in Greece, the government comes out neatly to the Assembly and asks the Assembly for advice, an opinion, about solving a difficult problem. Here, a large number of parliamentary groups have been asking the government for more than two weeks to come before the Assembly to state what it is and what it thinks it is doing. The government won't. Instead, I'm sorry, the government is acting like a nom who sticks his head in the sand and thinks it's gonna stop him from being eaten. Unfortunately, what our President of the Republic has said is true, which said that we are on track to take a decisive step forward. We are, unfortunately, on the verge of a break-in and I am very afraid that we will take that step forward and make it. Yesterday, we were witnessing that the Prime Minister was making a statement that it was God's problems with KIM and issues related to EU membership that are not at all connected, that these two are some completely different times. In doing so, we are all witnessing that the situation by very serious EU officials has come to a very clear warning that there is nothing from the EU until we confess so-called. the state of Kosovo. You know, we also heard from the president of the state that we have to take it one step at a time towards Europe. To God, it is a great success that we will gain candidate status without the start date of the negotiations, and for our citizens to explain that this means that there are no EU funds until the date is determined. To remind me that Turkey has been a candidate for more than 20 years, that Macedonia has been a candidate for six years, that it does not have a starting date and that it does not matter that Serbia will gain candidate status without the start date of the negotiations. (President: five minutes. Here, I'm done. Last time I asked was this government a shame? Apparently not, so there's no reason to ask that again. I'll ask her something else - aman, is she going to come here to the congregation, if she may, and at least look ourselves in the eye? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62863	Thank you. Mr Dejan Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our particular question is about the issues that concern our citizens, which are, above all, the situation on KIM and the wrong economic path that stems from the fact that the EU has no alternative. Of course, in that sense, we point out that we are the only party that is both political and legal and economical against Serbia's entry into the EU. In that sense, our particular question is about a contract with the "Fiita" or a contract that followed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, supposedly a historical act that has led us to this situation that, our people in Kosovo and Metohija have been effectively left behind and our concrete question about this contract that has led to the sure and a kind of confusion of our voters to think that joining the EU will lead to an allegedly better life, we consider and prove from day to day economic arguments that it is not true, is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it are not referring to this issue, not to the whole of the contract with the "Fiita". We have seen these days, and it is scandalous that it is simply that even the Commissioner for Information, the Anti-Corruption Council, cannot get a hundred sides of the contract, because it is darkened and simply not possible to come up with one definition of whether this contract in economic terms leads to a improvement for our citizens or what we are afraid of and what we suspect is simply an absurd situation in economic terms, that the Republic of Serbia, which is in a difficult economic situation, is not only in political but also in economic, but in fact financing a large company, one giant from Italy, such as "Fiyat". It is simply impossible that at a time when there is so much transparency, when it is one of the basic principles of the EU, even if on paper we can't see whether it's a good deal, whether it's not or what we suspect, that simply the state of Serbia from its budget is funding social peace in Italy or the success of the company "Fiat". On the other hand, we are also concerned with another fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and state authorities will continue to finance a foreign enterprise from a rich country like America, which is US-Steel. We have seen it in print media these days that it will simply be forgiven about 20m euros in Sartida because it is reportedly "Sartid" i.e. " US-Steel "and there is no economic indicator that tells us that it is good for us, nor that they are in crisis because I will simply give you this data, production in "US-Steel" has grown compared to last year. So, it's totally amazing stuff, that we're helping the actual Fiat, we're helping US-Steel, we've introduced a unilateral application of the transitional agreement, so another 130m euros, we're giving the EU, all at the moment when you, the same states, are sending and holding their soldiers in Kosovo, and they're shooting at our citizens. So, a completely absurd situation and one situation that has arisen from economic, political, legal and in any other sense harmful phrase that the EU has no alternative. In this sense, we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to show some kind of courage, a kind of non-adhesiveness towards the EU, according to the whole idea that has obviously failed, not only because of Greece or the crisis of the euro, but also because of many other arguments and to show us that we see it with the benefit of an analysis of the contract with Fiat. It's just amazing that after almost three and a half years we don't have an insight, we don't have either, there's no public, they don't even have institutions that rely on power. So, if this contract is not shown in one transparent form, it seems to be a public deception. We are against it, as we are against looking for an answer to the KIM situation among those who do not want anything good to the Serbian people, which are primarily those EU member states that have recognised so-called. Kosovo. Our question is complex and it relies on both the legal and political context of the situation in which Serbia is in because of a false and harmful phrase that the EU has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62865	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62866	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask one question directed towards the government, the government's competent ministries and competent bodies, or bodies in the cities and municipalities of Serbia. What's this about? The Serbian Progressive Party, the DSS and other smaller parties have been not participating in the work of this parliament for several days, or more than ten days. It is their legitimate right, such as their legitimate right to regularly go down to the register, to take funds to work in this Assembly, such as their right to see them regularly and meet them in the restaurant of this Assembly. They were chosen by the people, and they would need to account for that at a certain point. However, I am not so interested in this political attitude that has its various aspects, but I am more interested in each other's activity, it could be called their night activities. Namely, if you go through the cities of Serbia, Novi Sad, Belgrade these days, I don't know what the situation is in Nis, but I know what the situation is in other cities of Vojvodina, you will see that the bandits, pillars of public lighting, bridges, newly built infrastructure in these cities, and you will admit that much has been done in the past in Novi Sad, Belgrade, that new bridges and overpasses have been built and much has been done on the reconstruction and construction of the posters, the heads of their president. Perhaps I had reason for this parliamentary question in the fact that I crossed Brank's bridge this morning and that from the first to the last pillar of the central pillars on this bridge was covered with posters with Tomislav Nikolic's head. I'm asking the departments if the election campaign has started, if the elections have been called? I ask the question – what are the competent ministries doing in the context of proceedings under the applicable campaign laws in this way, past the election period? I'm asking the city services, communal inspections and other services, not to mention names, I'm not even sure what services are in charge of, whether or not they've initiated procedures against authorized persons in these parties for, I'd say, insulting these cities? What's the cost of getting rid of those crying? When will it be removed? In a way, I'm asking a question, Mr. Shami is out. It is very uncultural, I would say, to ask the question and better to get out of the hall, as if he wasn't interested in the answer to that question, not at all in the work of this Assembly, and always ends his sentence – is it a shame on the Serbian Government, and similar questions, I would ask him - is it really a shame for the members of these parties to behave in this way and, with the fact that they are not in the hall and are not discussing laws, such as the proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations, the proposal for a law on the residence and residence of citizens, a bill on administrative inspection, a bill on the addition of the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, etc? These are all life questions. Are they not ashamed that they do not participate in the work of the congregation and are they ashamed to deal with these, as I have called them, night activities and for which they do not respond? But I ask the authorities to give me an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62867	Thank you. That answer will be interesting. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs of the People's Republic of Nada Kolundži and Branko Ruzic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, besides the representative of the proposing Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister and Mrs Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, has called for the sittings to be attended by Mirko Stefanovic, State Secretary at the Foreign Ministry and Branka Latinovic, head of the Arms Control Department and Military Co-operation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USA, PRODUCTION AND REALITY OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE BACTERIOLOGIC, BIOLOGICAL AND TOXIC WEAPONS AND THE DESTINATION OF THEM. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Dusan Marić, Radiša Ilic, Momir Marković, Milan Škrbić, Radica Jocic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Goran Mihajlović, Milorad Buha, Momcilo Duvnjak, Petar Jojic, Milorad Krstin, Sreto Perić, Vladan Jeremic, Bozidar Delić, Dobrislav Prelic, Milan M. Nikolic, Zoran Popović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Acimović, Sulejman Spaho, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ljubomir Kragović, Milovanovic and Vladan Milojkovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You've received a report from the Defence and Security Committee. The National Assembly carried out a search in principle, in accordance with Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62868	Ladies and gentlemen, the name of this law is - The law prohibiting the completion, production and creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. I have submitted an amendment to add the word "use" in the name of the law. In order to avoid any damage to the use of this weapon, it is certainly most important to prohibit its production, and then use it. Since the ban on the production of biological weapons is practically impossible, because biological weapons are also classified as some of the substances used in medicine, in medical studies for treatment, as the first next measure of protection against biological, bacteriological and toxic weapons comes the ban on its use, that is, its abuse. It is illogical to pass a law prohibiting the use of this weapon, and in the very name of the law, in addition to five, six bans, there are no the most important bans, bans on use. That this amendment is justified, confirms the first member of the law, in which it is said - this law prescribes a ban on the production and creation of supplies of bacteriological weapons and the use of bacteriological weapons. The great, in fact, biggest flaw in this law is that it will not be applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which will be applied selectively on a number of grounds. In particular, it won't be applied in KIM territory. If we ask ourselves a question, where on Serbia's territory is the greatest threat to the use of biological weapons? Where is the greatest need for the provisions of this law to be applied? We'll all agree it's Kim. The shadow of the adoption of this law and this debate also casts out the fact that 11 years since the bombing of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, with various toxins, including the poored uranium, we have continued to remain silent about this crime, we have avoided facing the consequences of this crime and we are working more actively to eliminate them. I remind you that there are 111 locations in Serbia that NATO's pact has poisoned. They were thrown at, estimated, as many as 30 tons of poor uranium. A hundred seven locations are located on KIM and none are yet cleared. I remind you, it's been 11 years since the war. To draw the public's attention once again, to how significant this issue is and seems more significant to everyone than to ourselves, I will once again quote a part of the manual that is shared with NATO troops in the KIM pact. That manual was signed by Colonel Oswaldo Bizari. I quote-- stay away from tanks, vehicles and buildings affected by missiles or cruise missiles with impoverished uranium. Wear a protective mask, if you are working 500 metres from the tank, vehicle or building affected by an impoverished uranium missile. Inhaling insoluble particles of this dust is long-term associated with health consequences, including cancer and malformation of newborns. These consequences can only become visible after a few years. Food and water will become inedible due to the contamination of this dust and the last, do not eat food that is not controlled. This is about protecting NATO troops. And this is correct and fair that people are warned to take care of what they're doing. But I ask the question of what about protecting people living in KiM, who won't get close once every five years to the location that's being shot with this poison, who live next to those locations or at those locations. Did the NATO Pact print any warnings? Has the Republic of Serbia printed any warnings to the population of KIM, in which it warned him of this danger? It's not. What a danger it is to see from the following data. A year before the war, 1,500 people died of malignancies. Now three times as many die, about five thousand. Kosovo is a black spot on Europe's map when it comes to malignant diseases. Of the 225 Italian soldiers who were in KIM, 45 of them have died of malignancies, while 25 of them were born children with genetic anomalies. I will also provide some information from the Institute of Public Health, DR Milan Milovanovic Vatut. It's a study that was done in 2005, so six years after the bombing. The study showed that the incidence of central Serbian cancer has increased by 22% in men and 16% in women. Prostatic cancer rate increased by 60%, urinary bladder by 37%, colon by 29%, lung cancer by 16%. In women, the increase in colon cancer is 25%, the lung is 24%, the uterus is 17% and the breast tumor is 7%. I also think of it as an SRS MP and as a Serbian citizen that the silence of the Republic of Serbia on this crime is shameful, for both humanistic and political reasons. KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Serbs and Cypriots living in KIM are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the state must take care of all its citizens. Practically, Serbia is taking part in a conspiracy to silence crimes against its own people, along with the NATO Pact, the World Health Organization, the UN. This conspiracy exists, there's more evidence, and I'm only going to name two. In 1999, a team of experts sent a team to Kosovo. They worked there for two months. They made an alarming report. They delivered that report to the UN. The report was signed by a UN official, Bakari Kante. However, that report has never seen the light of day. Two years later, WHO did the same thing. She sent people to the field, they made a report. After that, eight chapters related to the use of poored uranium were expelled from the report. We in the SRS think Serbia should take the next steps. First, to ask the UN Security Council to adopt a resolution on the formation of a team of experts - physicists, chemists, biologists and doctors, who would come to Serbia's field, to KiM and has the following task, to determine by what type and quantity of toxic weapon NATO's pact bombed the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to determine exactly what locations were affected and what consequences eleven years after the bombing by human health, according to the plant and animal world. Next, through the UN General Assembly or through a lawsuit to the International Court of Justice, Serbia is asking for the NATO Pact to clear these locations. Only four in southern Serbia have been cleaned up so far. The four were cleaned by the Republic of Serbia. Third, that Serbia is suing all the countries that used poor uranium in this illegal, cowboy aggression, and there is a sign that it was also used with plutonium. Lastly, Serbia filed charges against all those countries for damages to bomb victims. I am convinced that such an initiative, such an action by the Republic of Serbia, would come to the great sympathy of all Kosovo residents, regardless of whether it is Serbs or Shipari. I believe it would raise the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in its southern province and, in any case, help its diplomatic battle to defend KIM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62869	Thank you. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62870	Just to point out, you'll be refusing time for an authorised representative, as long as it's there. I have submitted an amendment to the very name of the law, by replacing the word "toxic" in the name of the law with the word "toxic." As for the government's argument of not accepting amendments, I can say that rarely when I had the opportunity to see so many identical arguments in my parliamentary practice in one sentence, which actually has one common denominator. In this case, it is the text of the convention itself. The legislator could have taken this convention, to which they are constantly called, and to literally declare the law, that we do not now have such a situation that nothing can be changed, not even words that are foreign to our language and for which there are appropriate understandable words in Serbian, for example, let us take this word "toxin" that we want to replace with the word "toxin". How many Serbian citizens would know if you did a survey, what does the word "toxin" mean? I believe at least 80% of people wouldn't know what this is about. What's the point of adopting laws, and it's not just about this law, there's a lot of them putting up a dilemma like this, where people won't know what it's about? I don't think any of the world's officials, under the circumstances, would mind domestic legislation adopting laws that will be appointed as people understand them. This is how the people will break their heads when they hear: readmission, discrimination, expropriation, restitution, transition. Although this - the transition you could easily translate as – peeled to skin. To return to the government's explanation. I've seen this argument intended only for this amendment. However, it turns out that of the 30 and some amendments, 11 were reportedly ruined, because we dared to change certain terms or expressions of the Convention written nearly four decades ago. However, the rest of the amendment again had another unique explanation, which was quoted as saying: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the decision in the bill is more precise" etc. etc. As far as this amendment is concerned, which we are asking in the Law for the place of words - toxin, or toxic, to enter words - poison, or toxic, we believe that it is right, regardless of what I would say, the infection of using foreign incomprehensible words, as a form of tardiness, seems to have affected the ministries that write these drafts of the law. Although, we could get the bill in English as well. The explanation would probably be identical. The text of the Convention shall not be amended. That's how Bulgarians also worked before they joined the EU in 2007. They have passed untranslated laws in English. Here in the EU today, they live well, under the allegations, and Bulgaria has already evaporated millions and 800,000 of its citizens, gone into the world, as Ljubvoje Rsumovic would say, so one quarter of Bulgaria's release. Let me remind you, today we are discussing amendments to the proposal for a law prohibiting the use of biological weapons, not the text of the Convention. Since this bill, in a river, is part of the way into the EU, towards your EU, and since the SRS considers that Serbia must not enter the EU at any cost, and Patriarch Iriney has also given you a clear message on the subject of KIM and the EU, I suggest that you, as a representative of the Government and of your colleagues, be quick to join. Otherwise, Bozidar Djelic will only arrive to lay a wreath on an EU grave that slowly but certainly shoots at all seams, Greece is only the beginning. The question for the government's representatives, as asked by your colleague Maric and many others – how will you implement them at KIM? Right there, this kind of weapon has left terrible consequences to the environment where this weapon was actually being used. The best example of how contaminated KiM territory is, and nothing is better in certain parts of Serbia that are intensely bombarded with different charges, and above all with poor uranium, is the fact that American soldiers bring in drinking water from America, because they know how much everything around them has been poisoned and destroyed. It's a congratulations from the EU and the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62871	Thank you. According to the amendment, which is required to replace the word "toxic" with the word "toxic" with the word "toxic" by Mr Milivojevic Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62872	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this amendment should be rejected for many reasons, because this "toxic" is clear to all what it means. On the other hand, in the light of this amendment and the question of how we are going to implement this amendment on KIM territory, certainly better than those who are asking the question, and who had the opportunity to have the laws of the Republic of Serbia held in 1999, and then the military and the police left the KIM and the people for mercy and mercy, not only of radioactive waste and the consequences of radioactive bombing, but of those who, instead of the Serb military and police, who were there until they led such a policy as they led, then our people were left at the mercy and mercy of much greater accidents and disasters that include the consequences of radioactive bombing. We who run a state-run policy, for which KIM are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, of course we will always be committed to caring, to preserving the health of our people who survived and remained at KIM, because as you heard, some say – our people are still living on KIM, I say – our people will continue to live on KIM in the future. As some say - hurry to lay a wreath on the EU's grave, many have run with undosed statements and even more undosed behavior... (President: Mr. Milivoevich, let's get back to the amendment. The EU is as good as I see it.) Thank you for the questions they are asking, but there have been many questions raised when it comes to the EU and Serbia's perspective, so that Serbia will protect KIM, but also its European perspective, but it will find a way for this people living on KIM, who faces the horrors of a policy that was led in 1999, to certainly be better, because this law will also apply in KIM territory, and the state of Serbia will take care of our people who were left there for mercy and mercy in 1999. What is the most important policy that this people have left there the way they left it, will never be in a position to decide on health and to take care of the people at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62873	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric Dusan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62874	Article 1 refers to the prohibitions imposed by this law. I quote: "this law prohibits the production, use and creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons." counterpart Momir Markovic proposed that these bans be added to the ban on advertising biological and toxic weapons. However, the government did not accept this amendment. That's why we have a rather absurd situation, in my opinion. We're adopting a law banning the production of biological, bacteriological, toxic or toxic weapons, and that law does not prohibit advertising of the same. When proposing this amendment, we have primarily managed the fact that we have witnessed more and more frequent open advertising of certain suspicious drugs, vaccines and similar products containing biological agents that can be treated as biological weapons. Practically, every drug that is not correct, every vaccine that is not correct, every medicine that is not used properly represents a toxic weapon. As drug advertising can be devastating, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the entire planet have seen best in the case of swine flu. I remind you that television channels, television programs, news pages have been buried for months with a story of swine flu and a rescue shot, a vaccine against swine flu. The highest government officials vaccinated, daily called on the people to be vaccinated, the country lived in panic for months. (President: Mr. Maric, I apologize, I must refer you to the amendment. I know they're drugs and weapons against disease, but in this particular case, it doesn't apply. So this is about weapons in the right sense of words. Please, Mr. Krasic, don't bother me while I warn Mr. Maric about the duties of the Rules of Procedure and thank you both. ) If you read this law carefully, then you will see that biological weapons include certain biological agents, certain biological substances used for medical purposes, used for the production of medicines and other materials used for human treatment. That's one thing. Secondly, we're talking about an amendment that we're proposing to ban the advertising of biological weapons. Let me continue, when all these girls went through this famous rescue vaccine, the following facts were found. The first fact was that it was discovered that there was a swine flu virus in the vaccine. Mr. Novakovic, I apologize, but if you have a vaccine found to contain the virus, the virus is a biological weapon, it says in this law that it's a biological weapon, then you can't say that I'm off topic. So, more people were found to have died of vaccination than this famous vaccine, rather than the swine flu itself. The next thing we know is that the vaccine against swine flu was produced a year before the outbreak started and its declaration. Before the vaccine was found, a virus was found. The next fact is very important that the international pharmaceutical mafia has earned seven billion euros in vaccine production. In the debate in principle, I was talking about a scenario applied by the world's pharmaceutical mafia, this mafia that, in this perfiduous way, through drugs and vaccines, places biological weapons. First, pharmaceutical companies create a virus, this virus causes a particular disease, and then place a vaccine against the virus. What's most important is they make a big media noise that's being raised by a paid media mob and making billions of dollars. For these reasons, counterpart Momir Markovic suggested that the ban on advertising of biological, bacteriological and toxic weapons be found among the prohibitions set out in Article 1 of this proposal. What a prank and conspiracy it is, it can be seen from the fact that a huge number of shares in the company that manufactures this vaccine, "Tamiflu", the citizens remember, it was a vaccine that people were vaccinated against bird flu, that a good part of the action had by former U.S. Defence Minister Donald Ramsald. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62875	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62876	As I said, Article 1 speaks of the prohibitions imposed by this law. In this first article, there is an incomprehensible, intolerable grammatical voice error. She's in the name of the law. The decision proposed by the government was mildly spoken in full illiterate. I quote: "This law prohibits the production, use and creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. "I must read once again and ask you to pay attention: "This law prescribes a ban on the production, use and creation of weapons and their destruction." Milan Skrbic has proposed in his amendment that this caucus formulation be brought into line with Serbian spelling and grammar, and that this law prohibits production, use, creation, etc. biological, bacteriological and toxic weapons, as well as the way it was destroyed. The Government has rejected the amendment on the grounds that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the Convention does not contain provisions on how to destroy the weapons prohibited by the Convention. Here is a classic replacement of thesis, which was also discussed by counterpart Radisa Ilic. This isn't about how this weapon is going to be destroyed, how it's going to be destroyed, this is about basic respect for everyday speech, respect for grammar, decline and time. This, by the way, is one of a dozen amendments proposed by the SRS, which the government, if there were any goodwill, had to accept. She rejected them on the grounds that they were not in agreement with the Convention on the Prohibition of Perfection, Production and bacteriological, Biological and Toxic Weapons. Even in the amendment, in which we have proposed an amendment to the name of the law, it is said that it is not the law of the Convention. Well, we don't adopt a convention here, the Convention was adopted in 1972, and we are adopting the law of the Republic of Serbia, which treats this problem. We have known so far, it is a public secret, that the ruling coalition prescribes many laws from EU member states. However, we now have one concrete confession that they are not only copying laws, but also copying their titles. So, I responsibly claim that no amendment of the SRS is contrary to this Convention. Calling on this Convention to explain the rejection of the amendments would be logical that the solutions we would propose are more liberal than the solutions that exist in the Convention, so that by accepting them, there is a risk of increasing the risk of production, use, use, etc. biological, bacteriological and toxic weapons. However, things stand exactly the opposite. We're just filling in the gaps that exist at the Convention. That's what you see in this bill of law, big blanks. So we're practically reducing the ability to produce or use this weapon. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must point out that you refused our amendment to find a ban on the use of bacteriological weapons among bans on the use of bacteriological weapons, so you rejected our proposal to ban the concealment of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons, and we will discuss that later. It literally rejects the amendment and again calls for a famous convention. You refused our proposal to explicitly prohibit the advertising of this weapon. You are now refusing to remove grammatical errors, spelling and incredible errors from the bill, and you are constantly calling for this convention. As for this reminder of who's to blame, and who's to blame, I just have to say two sentences. While the SRS was in power, Serbs and Serbia defended KIM as much as we could and we defended every inch of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and at the mercy of the Serbian and Albanian occupiers in Kosovo were removed after the implementation of the Kumanovo Agreement. (President: The theme, Mr. Maric, is not geopolitical, but is a concrete amendment. I'm done. I thank you and remind you that my predecessor spoke for five minutes on this subject, and you didn't interrupt it until the end. I'm finishing by saying the SRS didn't vote for the Kumanian Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62877	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Radića Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Vitomir Plužarevic has tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this draft law on the prohibition of the completion, production and creation of supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons and their destruction. Mr. Vita Plužarevic suggests that in Article 2 words, "specific concepts" are replaced by the word "speaks". Reading the amendment proposed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic and reading the government's explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the convention contains only concepts used in international documents," I was under the impression that the government, having no serious argument to justify the non-acceptation of the SRS amendment, has resorted to one such solution, which is a classic repetition, as a parrot, again referring to the convention, and I repeat, we are adopting a law that will need Serbia to protect Serbia from biological weapons, not a convention that is general and, I would say, a hollow for some of the particulars that are characteristic of certain signator countries and which we from the SRS want to instill in our law. Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, you have issued a ban on our amendments, as if this convention were a sacred cow. I am convinced that even in that convention there are no obstacles to such a solution as MP Vitomir Plužarevic suggested. Speaking of the convention, Ms. Malovic, I'm sure you know whether the United States is signatories to this convention and what's the use of that and that they are. The Americans created a virus of AIDS, the Americans perfected a genetic virus of Ebola, strengthened it, produced in military laboratories of swine flu virus, not to mention many other international conventions, agreements that the United States has knowingly trampled over the past few decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62879	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62880	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which reads: Article 2(1)(a) after the word "protective" is added to the word "scienceal, medical". This amendment is the best example that the government has not managed its best interests to improve the bill's proposal, perhaps because of the understanding that these are not issues that will significantly affect the daily life of Serbian citizens. This idea cites the government's argument: "Amendment is not accepted because the solution in the bill is more precise." It is precisely us in the SRS amendment who have specified what can be meant by biological weapons, and these are the names of agents or toxins that are not intended, among other things, for scientific and medical purposes. The government only stated "protective or other peaceful purposes". Now I ask you, is it more precisely what the MPs of the SRS have proposed, where it is specifically stated: "the scientific, medical purposes", or is this the dreary clarification given by the government? The term: "protective" and "mirnodopa" can be interpreted in any way, as it suits whom, although we don't have to work too hard on biological and toxic weapons, we probably don't have it, as we have destroyed and melted both classical artillery, armored and infantry weapons. Of these toxins, we're the only ones left to dust mosquitoes, but it's passed into the jurisdiction of agricultural aviation. Since the government felt that scientific and medical purposes were not a priority that should be highlighted in this law, as SRS MPs we are one, I would say such a picturesque example that best shows that medicine and science, when they get their hands on hand, can create a terrible weapon of apocalyptic proportions, of course, because someone probably did not deliberately distinguish medical and scientific research for peacetime and military purposes. That's exactly what we wanted with this amendment. To go back to science and medicine, which is listed in the amendment, and for example, which I wanted to talk about for a little while. The H1N1 virus, which was actually successfully tested by biological weapons in terms of the general trial last year and before last year, is in fact a combination of swine, bird and seasonal flu created in the laboratories of the American Military Institute in Maryland, on which a team of doctors of medicine, geneticists and microbiologists worked. What happens next? This virus is being passed on to Novartis, a pharmaceutical giant who, in the past about 70 years ago, belonged to a large German company, IG Farben, a large Nazi cartel. "IG Farben" was a company that ran a lot of even a concentration camp in Auschwitz... (President: Not entering into the truthfulness of all these allegations, I warn you to return and to add the word "protective" to the word and "scienceal, medical". It's about guns, not drugs. In all the wars, Switzerland has been neutral, and I have been manipulated by World War II and all that. Please return to the topic. Thank you. That is how science and medicine work in the ministry of the new world order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62881	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62882	Article 2(1)(b) "Weapon, equipment and means for the use of such an agent or toxin for enemy purposes or in armed conflicts". This is about explaining the concepts used in this law. We of the SRS have submitted an amendment where we have suggested that these words, "for hostile purposes or in armed conflicts", be deleted. Here's why. Imagine a sentence that says that drugs are the drugs used for treatment and medical testing. Of course, while they're being used for treatment, of course it's medication. According to this, there should be some medicines that are not used for treatment, and we know that there are no medications. It's the same with guns. The weapon is a weapon, whether used for hostile purposes or not, used or used in armed conflicts. If you say guns are just weapons used for hostile purposes, you're suggesting there's some kind of weapon used in friendly gossip. There is no such weapon. The same is true when you say there is a weapon used in conflicts that are not armed. If there's a conflict, while you use a weapon, whether it's a conflict between two people or two states, that conflict is an armed conflict. We just thought this didn't make sense. These words we propose to delete are unnecessary. We suggested to the government that he erase those words. However, the government, for the reasons we talked about, and the main reason is that the amendment is submitted to the SRS, rejected this amendment. I once again warn of that fact, I believe it is the greatest flaw of this law, that this law will not be applied to anyone who violates it. If the list of those who are now threatened by the greatest threat that Serbian citizens would be endangered by bacteriological, biological or toxic weapons, the first 10 places would be the NATO Pact countries, because these countries are the largest producers of these weapons, because only those countries in the present history of war used that weapon, because those countries already used this law in Serbia's territory and because these countries are practically part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because they came out of Resolution 1244. Because these countries are the biggest producers of these weapons. Because these are the only countries on the history of war so far used that weapon. Because these countries have already used the weapons spoken of by this law on the territory of Serbia and because these countries are practically part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia under occupation because they have come out of the framework of Resolution 1241. Now we have an absurd situation to adopt a very important law, especially in the future, and this law will not be applied only to those of whom the greatest danger of breaking this law threatens. Why are we in an absurd situation? Because, as we have already spoken several times in Serbia's 2005 principle debate, it signed that famous agreement with NATO pact, under which NATO troops are legally untouchable in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now that we're discussing this law of any NATO soldier who has any supplies, let's assume it's a lunatic, he can take one or five kilos of some biological agent, go by the highway, blow up and destroy the world around the highway, cause death of five or five thousand people, he's absolutely not going to answer to this law. So one question is, what is the point of adopting a law if that law can be violated by just the ones the greatest danger threatens. I really need to ask the question again, which is why the NATO Pact deserves this privilege. Even though it had to be signed this shameful agreement in some segments but it had to remain averted, to protect the state and say, there are some areas where you will answer if you break the laws. If you cause mass deaths of humans, mass poisoning. I remind you that NATO's pact killed three thousand citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbs and Shipara, wounded 15,000 people, killed 80 children in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and burned 420,000 missiles of a total of 22,000 tonnes, and of which, according to its own recognition, 31,000 missiles, every 13 missiles contained in themselves the poison that was the subject of this law of poor uranium. In order to avoid confusion, the RHB guide protects JNA, a report by the UN expert team from 1999 that questioned, explored the use of illicit funds on the aggression of the NATO Pact to the SRJ, the World Health Organization's 2001 report and the opinion of Dr. Radomir Kovacevic, a toxicologist at the Institute of Medicine and Radiological Protection, the Institute is called "Dr. Dragomir Karajovic", meaning everyone agrees that the poored uranium is radioactive, radiological and toxic weapons, so there is no confusion. So, the NATO Pact says, on Serbian children, on Serbian cities and villages, we have blown out 31 thousand missiles with this poison, a total of seven tonnes. Serbia's military claims that it is 45 thousand, weighing 15 tonnes, and Russian military sources claim that it is 90,000 missiles with 30 tonnes of impoverished uranium. All that poison is in Serbia's territory. We are now here in the Serbian Parliament, in front of Serbian citizens, pretending to be something important, adopting a law on protection against toxic weapons, and the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been sown by this poison for 11 years and no one is doing anything at all. What is it, a practical application of this law? What are our options? How absurd his adoption in these circumstances is, it was best seen on Thursday, October 20th. I remind you, as we discussed in principle the adoption of the Law on the Use of Biological, bacteriological and Toxic Weapons, in the territory of Serbia, just 300km from here, in Kosovo and Metohija, there was an attack on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with that toxicological weapon. I recall while we were here discussing the NATO Pact threw tear gas at Serbs who were at those unfortunate customs crossings it was a tear gas, unknown contents and what's interesting is that more than 10 NATO troops had only done the wound. When I talked to people who got a little bit of an understanding of this problem, you know what they told me? It was most likely a test of some new weapon used by these toxins. You know, when a tear gas is fired, the tear gas knows that every single cop, every soldier, has been dropped. It is impossible that some NATO troops sent the pact to a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija, that they are here for several months and have not learned to fire a tear gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62883	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric Dusan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62884	A colleague, Jojic, submitted an amendment to item 2 which reads "a biological agent is any material of biological origin that can cause damage, illness or disease". He suggested that each word be deleted because it was a superfluous, unnecessary word. So we're going back to that field again, the government's unwillingness to accept the opposition's proposal, primarily SRS proposals to contribute to quality legal solutions. The text of the law should be as clear as possible, as short as possible. The government rejected the amendment with a reason that the solution she proposed is more precise and is again a classic replacement of the thesis. So we're not talking about a shooting contest here, we're talking about the text of the law and the respect of some rules that regulated an area called grammar. One of the rules is that writing does not use words that are unnecessary, which are too high. I would really like to hear the explanation, Mrs Malovic is not an expert on this area and I don't think she's guilty of this, she happened to be here in the Assembly today to listen to this debate. However, I would really like to have some government official come here who read these amendments, who refused them and who wrote reasons why he refused them. So there's no reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62885	On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Krstin, is on the floor. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62886	Here, I'll take a minute. When writing this law, the government apparently meant protecting people from biological, bacteriological and toxic weapons. We of the SRS believe that such a law should guarantee the protection of not only humans but also of the plant and animal world. So, one full protection. You know, you can't pass a law saying, "The use of biological weapons against humans is forbidden," not adopting a law that prohibits the use of bacteriological, biological weapons against plants and animals. As a result, counterpart Milorad Krstin has submitted an amendment to add the words "disease" in Article 2(2), so the biological agent is any material of biological origin that can cause damage, illness and disease, to add the words "disease" in humans, animals or plants. We believe that this would remove this huge lack of responsibility from the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62887	Here you go, Mr. Ilic. The word is from Mr. Radisa Ilic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62888	National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment to Article 2. The bill requires that in Article 2(2) after the word "disease" the point be replaced by a comma and the words "people, animals or plants" are added. People's MP Milorad Krstin, this amendment, intended to formulate this position more precisely, but it seems that the government thinks that something more precise is not explained. That's what's written in the explanation. What's the harm in the law to suggest that a biological agent can cause disease in humans, animals and plants? Not at all, but it might not work out for anyone. Here, I'd like to give an example of why someone can't answer that. Let's say, in the case of animal poisoning, due to an accent with biological agents that can be found here for who knows what reasons for which country, someone may seek compensation for the damage. Now, since the law you've proposed here doesn't say that animals come into consideration, anyone who interprets the law can defend itself that way. That is why the amendment of the SRS was also written to avoid any possibility of personal interpretation of the law, and therefore we claim that our proposal is precisely more precise, not what the Government has proposed. Also, I have to say, it's a bit of a strange path to this law and the adoption of the amendment. First, the Environment Protection Committee discussed this bill on October 18th. Ambassador Branko Martinovic was present. The meeting was attended by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, as it is today. A few days ago, the Committee on Security even pleaded on these amendments, and the explanation also mentions the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as someone in charge of some kind of implementation of this law. Believe me, we didn't know who was coming here today, but we see that Justice Minister Snezana Malovic is here again. As a representative of the government, I would like to invite you to accept the amendment to Milorad Krstin, given that you have probably replaced the more difficult ones by writing such an explanation for the refusal of the amendment. In fact, we've made a more precise determination, but not a proposing one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62889	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliament MP Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 3. point 1), where it is said after the word "use" is added to the word "clamming". The ban on advertising of bacteriological or biological and toxic weapons is one of the most important preconditions for achieving the purpose of adopting this law and it is necessary to include among the prohibitions set out in Articles 1 and 3 of this Act any advertising of that weapon. Again, a good amendment of the SRS has been rejected because, undermining the government's argument, the convention does not contain the word "clamming". That's what it says in the explanation. We're asking again whether we're adopting a bill here on biological weapons or a replica of the convention. This Article 3 of point 1 shall state exactly 14 concepts relating to the ban on bioweapons. I'll just list them. In the territory of the Republic of Serbia it is forbidden to complete, produce, own, use, create supplies, acquire, retain, export, import, carry out transport, transit, transfer or transfer directly or indirectly to other persons to transfer bacteriological or biological weapons. I ask the government's representative what was the problem of also advertising biological weapons banned in Serbia? Now you can say, and you wrote this in an explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Republic of Serbia does not have the weapons prohibited by the Convention. We draw a logical conclusion from this, that Serbia has a biological weapon, you would probably accept the amendment, but we don't have it, and then why this law. If we don't have it, then what are these terms like to be perfected? What? Nothing because we don't have a biological weapon. Own it. What do we own? Nothing. Catch up, what? Nothing. Or, say, creating supplies. Of what? Nothing. Let's not compare what we read in Article 3. Here's what absurdity Serbia is going to right now. Just in the current agenda, we have, say, shipping laws, overseas ships, and we don't have any of that, but it's important that we have the law. We'll probably have a fly-to-month law from Serbia someday, but we'll see. Speaking of advertising, state authorities dealing with high-tech crime should take a little more into account the various Internet sites that are actually schools and through which very simple and easy-to-executively interested persons refer to how to create both dangerous poisons and explosives and how to carry diseases, plant and animal, but also diseases that attack man and should pay attention to who owns those sites. There are probably mechanisms to track down individuals who visit certain sites. That's what the basics do, and let's just say the cops can't. You probably know that only in agricultural pharmacies can you get almost all the elements to create a destructive bomb. We also had opportunities to see in the part of Norway where a mass murderer just made a bomb out of a ton of artificial fertilizer by means of instructions from the Internet that blew up the central market in Oslo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62891	This took advantage of the time of an authorised representative and three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62892	Ladies and gentlemen, all responsible citizens of the Republic of Serbia have a moral obligation to cultivate Serbian, cultivate Serbian and Cyrillic letters, to use domestic words and expressions wherever they can and where there are adequate words in their daily lives. The state authorities have no moral obligation, but also have a legal obligation. Who else will respect the law if it is not respected by the government and not respected by parliament? If the government uses foreign expressions in writing where there are adequate expressions in Serbian, if MPs who are responsible for Serbian language suggest that foreign expressions be replaced with Serbian expressions, and the congregation majority refuse, then we should not be surprised that we have a situation where we have more than 50% of the places in which there are written names in the Latin letter, in Hungarian, and there is no sign of a Cyrillic or Serbian language. In order to correct it a little bit, we in the SRS have submitted an amendment to replace the word "directly" in Article 3 and in all other members. This is one of those amendments for which there is no normal logical justification not to be accepted, but was not accepted because it was proposed by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62893	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62894	A colleague, Bozidar Delic, submitted an amendment to item 3 that says that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia it is forbidden in any way to assist, finance, encourage or encourage others to engage in the activities referred to in points 1) and 2) of this article, means in the activities prohibited by this law. Delic suggested that these bans, meaning no aid, funding, encouragement and encouragement, be added to the ban on forcing a legal or physical person to produce, traffic, use and similar biological, bacteriological, toxic weapons. I really think this amendment is so good that it doesn't have to be explained. The production and use of biological and bacteriological weapons, all these weapons of mass destruction, are dealt with by the world's largest forces and the largest companies. It's the world mafia, the state mafia and the pharmaceutical mafia. Now I ask the question - does anyone who wrote this law really think that those who choose to produce biological weapons, who use biological weapons, will hesitate to use and force them to force someone else to participate in this crime? I would really like to hear some reasonable reason why this amendment was rejected. The government's argument is that the amendment is not accepted because the termology used in the bill... So the government says - the amendment is not accepted because the termology we use is in accordance with international standards and does not include the possibility of coercion. What we care about is that your termology doesn't accept the possibility of coercion, this is really ridiculous. You didn't predict when you wrote this, to use a term of coercion. It's not just a term, it's a crime. When you force someone to commit a certain crime, you commit a crime, it exists in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. First, this is completely illiterate. Be careful - the amendment is not accepted because the termology used in the bill is in accordance with international standards, does not include the possibility of coercion. Completely mixed falls, times, and all living things. There's talk of one and it's moving on to another topic. Secondly, you have no right, believe me, these are abnormal things, you don't have the right to, in a law that forbids you from perfecting production, creating supplies of bacteriological, biological, toxic weapons, to allow someone to be forced to produce, use weapons, and to say, that's not a crime. Anyone can now force someone from Bonsteel to smuggle five kilos of some toxic poison into Belgrade, one who is forced, blackmailed or for any reason will answer, and whoever forced him will not answer in any way. I remind you, you have rejected our amendment to establish, in the name of the law, a ban on the use of this weapon. You refused our proposal to ban the concealment of this weapon. You refused our proposal to prohibit advertising of this weapon and now you refuse to make a proposal to ban anyone from producing or using this weapon. So I ask the question - what is the purpose of this law, why are we adopting it? There was no need to adopt it, only you could write one member of the law – it is adopted, the Convention on the Prohibit of Production and the Creation of Stocks of bacteriological, Biological and Toxic Weapons, signed on 10 April 1972, but there would also be a small problem, because this convention was confirmed by the parliament of the then SFRY. So, folks say, if you'll excuse me, then we're beating up empty straw.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62895	Thank you. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Dobrislav Prelic has tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this bill on banning production, and creating supplies of biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. The amendment reads - In Article 3(3), after the word "member" the point is replaced by a comma and the words are added: "or any other activity aimed at perfecting, producing, using, advertising, transporting or storing bacteriological or toxic weapons, microbiological or other biological agents and toxins, which are not intended for preventive protective, medical and other peaceful purposes in accordance with this law". We have to be honest, because sometimes, through many institutes, businesses, pharmaceutical companies, real manufacturers of biological and toxic weapons are hiding. The goal of all of this is to cover the tracks, because these companies are mostly funded by the state and from permanent funds. What we are witnessing here in Serbia, but also in many other countries in the environment, in particular countries that are in some form of transition, many young experts, talented, enticing offers, high wages, drag them to countries that are prone to producing biological weapons and then pay them well for the rest of their lives to translate their knowledge into something called biological weapons. Serbia's radical party sees it necessary in this provision to individualise all activities related to the use of bacteriological, biological and other toxic weapons, which are forbidden to help, finance and encourage or encourage. Of course, the objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62897	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62898	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for this law on the prohibition of perfection, production, the creation of supplies of biological and toxic weapons, as well as their destruction, and to Article 4(2), where the words "prohibition of action" are replaced by the words "a way to carry out work", the word "issue" is replaced by the word "issue" and the word "leading" is replaced by "leading". This is in order to improve the text of the law, i.e. this article. Namely, a regulation on the ratification of the Convention on the Ban of Perfection, Production, the creation of supplies of biological and toxic weapons and their destruction was brought back to the old Yugoslavia in 1964. Each member undertakes to sign that he will not engage in this activity. Unlike nuclear weapons, materials and equipment, the devices needed to produce biological weapons can be obtained at very low prices, so that these weapons in the military jargon can be called the nuclear bomb of the poor. A very modern and well equipped laboratory for the production of biological weapons can be installed for small money, somewhere for $10,000, and also placed in quite a small space. Special fear is also represented by experts, people who are trained and work in such laboratories, because at any moment they can be reorientated and worked for the purposes of whoever orders them weapons of mass destruction. It's also a particular problem that no lab is so protected that it can't be from danger to the environment. So the elemental accidents, floods, fires, earthquakes can easily penetrate the safety of any mass-destructing laboratory. Almost all countries, as well as the United States, claim that their professional work in the military area is solely for defence purposes. However, there was no clear difference between offensive and defensive weapons. America puts itself, we know because we saw it in our space, at the top of the fight against terrorism, but irony is the fact that America didn't want to sign a convention on any weapon. The problem was, the proposal said other countries could control and inspect American biochemical laboratories. America is looking for it as it has been, it's doing it itself, not only in its places, but throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62899	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 4 on which I have submitted the amendment says that Serbia's territory is allowed to perfect, produce, use, create supplies, acquire, possess and transport biological agents and toxins into protective, diagnostic, preventive and other peaceful purposes, or in order to contain, or treat, diseases. In point 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the text of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. I quote - carrying out the work referred to in Article 1(1), issuing licences, keeping records of issued licences, supervision and other issues relating to the performance of activities with biological agents, shall be governed by a special law. I have submitted an amendment suggesting that the word "supervisory" be replaced by the words "supervisory mode". The government rejected the amendment with a reason that the solution she proposed is more precise. The professors of the Serbian language I spoke with think differently than the government. They argue that it is clearer and more linguistically correct if it is said – the mode of supervision will be regulated by a special law, rather than when it is said – the supervision will be regulated by a special law. Experts confirm the justification of the amendment. This is one of the cases, and there have been hundreds in the term of this call for parliament, when the government rejects a completely justified amendment just because it was submitted by an SRS MP. It is clear that this government in law writing is managed by political rather than by professional criteria. That is why I understand when a minister refuses a good amendment, which essentially impairs the text of the law, and offers solutions that do not correspond to the current government. However, there is no reasonable explanation and justification for why amendments that essentially do not change the law, do not offer solutions that threaten and challenge the ruling majority's policy, but only improve it. They explain the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62901	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the defense and security accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 4(2) has been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We at the SRS Parliament Club are confident that the text of the Law on the Prohibiting Construction of Production and bacteriological, Biological and Toxic Weapons in Destroying them will be improved, especially if we take into account that two amendments to the SRS have been accepted on this article, this and the amendment of counterpart Sreta Periæ, in the preceding paragraph 1. Article 4 defines the purposes for which the processing, production, use, supply, acquisition, possession and transport of biological agents and toxins are permitted. It is good to repeat that it is allowed to combat, or treat, diseases, for protective, diagnostic, and preventive peaceful purposes. The promoter called for a UN convention to adopt this law, prohibiting the completion, production and creation of supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons in their destruction. It explains that the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to prevent the misuse of this weapon from being used for activities contrary to the UN Security Council Convention and Resolution 1540, as well as other international contracts. When we talk about the possibility that biological and toxic weapons should be used exclusively for peaceful purposes, and that the mentioned Convention and Security Council resolutions are bound to do so, it is good to remember our recent past, as we are in Serbia itself, and as our people in the environment have passed. Two days ago, we were able to see that a former Canadian soldier, Pascal Lakost, was in BiH, planning to strike hunger outside the office of the Canadian minister of martial arts until he received medical treatment or died. As a reason for his decisions, he said he was poisoned with poor uranium while in BiH. Examples like this in which foreign soldiers bring the truth about what their countries used in weapons in our premises are growing more and more numerous. Regardless of the fact that the government in Serbia is persistently silent and does not pass laws in the area of health that would benefit citizens, the cruel daily life is clearly telling us what the consequences of all that false European friends, NATO Pact and the United States have done to us. Just look at how much infant mortality has increased in Serbia and the number of malignancies. It all says and seems that these false friends of pro-European forces in Serbia are not interested in either the convention or the resolution. They care about the polygons where they get rid of their weapons, and they care about the profits of their military industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62903	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62904	There are few laws that we passed in this assembly on a proposal from the Government, and that there is no proposed establishment of any body, council, commission, no matter what its name is, which will take care of its implementation, as if the competent ministries do not exist at all. I'd like to remind you that 32,000 employees are currently working in the government. For reminders and for comparisons, 8,000 worked during the time of Slobodan Milosevic. So we have 32,000 men. Besides this army of employees, we keep inventing new working bodies and inventing new jobs to hire unemployed party activists. Unfortunately, this law is no exception either. In addition to the living and healthy health ministry, the implementation of this law will be taken care of by the commission. A colleague, Dragan Acimovic, submitted an amendment to Article 5(2), which reads - the Commission is educated by the government. He suggested that this position be changed a little and that the commission be added to educate the government on a joint reasoned proposal from the ministry responsible for health and the science ministry. I don't see what's going on here. So the government appoints a commission and we don't argue. We think that this commission is too high, because we have a competent ministry. But if you want to form it, you will form it. We just suggest that the government form this commission on the proposal of professional people, that there should be no employment of unprofessional people again, this is an extremely serious area – biological, bacteriological, toxic weapon. So it's not a joke area. We propose to prevent this from being formed by the Commission on a proposal from professional people. We assume that professional people are sitting in the Ministry of Health and in the Ministry of Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62905	According to the amendment, the word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62906	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this amendment should be rejected, because the argument that the formation of this committee will not know how much to increase the administration, and especially by using the argument that there were only 8,000 civil servants in the Republic of Serbia until 2000, and then there are not how many thousands, it is not true first. After 2000, especially after disuniting with Montenegro, we accepted many administrations that used to work in federal authorities. That's right. The Republic of Serbia had its customs administration in 1999. It was not independent, it was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Republic of Serbia has accepted many federal authorities and those people who worked in federal authorities, they have not lost their jobs, but these federal authorities have now become republican authorities and these people have got a job and started to work. Also, when we talk about reasoning, I don't know how many people will find a job, it's not that I don't know what number of people, and in particular there's no need to doubt the credibility of the government, that the government will find the best way to choose these people. Of course, this job will work in agreement with all ministries, and that does not mean that only professional people are sitting in certain ministries and that unprofessional people are sitting in the government. All the ministries make up the government and all these jobs are done in harmony with all the ministries and all these jobs are done with deep coordination at all levels, so there is no place of improvisation, surface, such an approach to state problems cost Serbia as much as it cost that amateurism in the work... . (President: Mr. Milivoevich, let's just get back to the subject. Okay? Thank you. That's what we had as a remark and a suggestion. So this commission should form a government and this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62907	On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric, or first of all, excuse me, Mr Spaho, you first.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62908	The replica first? I see you don't notice me, but I notice you, how thrilled you are today by the arrival of your great friend, otherwise the great tennis coach, because today he talked more about tennis than about Kosovo. [[President: No replica. Here you go.]] I believe and I heard, I got a notice that entering Europe depends only on tennis. Serbian citizens must know tennis to enter Europe. The amendment in Article 5(3), after the word "sufficient" is added to the word "written". Article 5 states in paragraph 3 that the implementation of this law reports to the government at least once every six months. Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment suggesting that this position be complemented by making it clear that the government's report is being submitted in writing. What's interesting is that my proposal would say otherwise. Article 5 of Article 3 states that the implementation of the law provides a written report to the Government at least once in six months, but look at the other thing. The government refused, and by an unheard explanation, I quote: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the report is always submitted in writing. ". What the government wrote was simply not true. As there is written, so is the oral report. I don't believe that your ministers and state secretaries and other government officials are mostly graduate lawyers who deal with the writing of this law, who don't know about oral and written reports. That is why, in any case, Madam Minister, in order to avoid different interpretations, misunderstandings and abuses, I believe it is mandatory to submit and write that written text must be placed, submitted to the government and the Serbian Parliament. This is, if you've already looked at the amendments and the report, just one dozen proposed amendments that improve the text of the law make it clearer, which are not accepted because the SRS proposed them. The quality of the law obviously doesn't matter much to this government. To Mr Cvetkovic and his cabinet, the most important thing is that these laws are numbered and that all Commissioners of Brussels are pleased and that they give you a breakthrough in the EU as soon as possible. I don't think you'll get it in December, maybe in December 2389.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62909	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this bill, which says, in Article 5(3), after the word "six months", the point is replaced by a comma and the words are added: "and to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once in four years". Obviously, the one who wrote an explanation for the rejection of the amendment is free to say that he has completely missed the topic. This amendment is a real example of what it looks like. Mrs. Malovic, you are a representative of the government. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(3) and it refers to a report to be submitted by the Commission to the National Assembly, which is what we are asking, but also a report on the implementation of this whole law or convention, since one single letter cannot be changed from it. You've completely missed the subject in your explanation. You are referring to the preceding Article 4, you can see it on your own, in which a special law is announced to be regulated. If you read better what you wrote in Article 4, it is evident that this law that you have announced applies to biological agents and toxins that will be used for peaceful purposes, that is, to treat people, not biological and toxic weapons, and we have requested a report for the concrete implementation of this whole law relating to biological weapons. What you're announcing, there's no talking about biological weapons, and you're giving us an explanation that this will be governed by some future law. The amendment asked the commission to report to the Assembly on the full application of the law, regardless of what you say there are no weapons in Serbia. Let it be written in that report that it is missing and that is some kind of document, or written clue. This is how it turns out that you have already stepped into the future and you already know what this futurist law will look like, you know even that there will be a member of the law that will provide for that report to the National Assembly, as they once referred to a draft law that challenged the rights of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Who assures us that you will once in a future bring this law to the National Assembly? You can always write explanations for any amendment of the SRS if you want an excuse for its non-acceptance. You can say it automatically – we have rejected the amendment because we plan to pass a law that will be passed but in a few years. This is a really funny explanation. To conclude by this amendment, we've been looking for one thing, you've answered something completely different. It turns out that you intend to hide certain things from the MPs, namely from the citizens, if you do not want to report to Parliament for the full implementation of the law, and you want to file a report under a law that is nowhere but in your announcement, and only on agents used for peaceful purposes. It's not about the report on the sowing of the sugar beet. This is about biological and toxic weapons. You should answer the question of MPs – what does NATO carry through and over Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62911	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) First of all, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62912	This member is talking about the work and competences of the Commission, so I will use it to refer to the discussion of my previous colleague. It is true what concerns the number of employees in the former federal authorities, as regards their takeover by the republican authorities. It is true that the formation of this commission will not significantly increase the number of employees in the republican administration. So it's probably about a dozen people. But if, in addition to 28 members of the government, besides more than 20 ministries, you form another 150 different regulatory bodies, councils, commissions, offices and ten people in each of these bodies, that's 1,500 people. However, the data I presented on the number of employees in the government of the Republic of Serbia is also correct. I downloaded these data from the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, 2010 and 2011. It says: by October 5, 2000, some 8,000 officials worked in the government. The government now employs 28,000 full-time employees and 4,000 employees per contract. If he's lying to the government, then I lied to him too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62913	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Radica Jocic tabled an amendment to Article 6 and suggested that the words "are longer" be replaced by the words "they are mandatory". To make it more clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is really about, I will read to you Article 6 which reads: "Members of the Commission and representatives of the competent authorities, who participate in the implementation of this law, are obliged to... ". The Serbian Radical Party has proposed a completely different text and is said: "... They shall be obliged to protect confidential information which they shall obtain in the conduct of the tasks relating to the application of the Convention." The Serbian Radical Party suggested instead of saying "they are obliged" to replace them with the words "they are mandatory". The essence of our amendment is not only about whether it is more linguistically correct to say "they are in debt" or "they are mandatory", a particular weight of the words "they are in debt" compared to "they are mandatory". Mandatory means that you can apply some sanctions, while the words are not obliged, can't, can't, whether they want or won't, especially when it comes to classified information, can't be left to the case, because in some reasonable time backwards, in a normal state, like our country, you couldn't predict these options, nor should you allow a case of whether someone would be willing or not willing to keep classified information. During that period, you were obliged even to take an oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62915	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Tomislav Ljubenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62916	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law prohibiting the production and creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction, this amendment to the SRS parliamentary club refers to persons carrying out tasks relating to the application of the Convention on the Prohibition of Production and the bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons supply and their destruction. It is defined in Article 6 that the members of the Commission and the representatives of the competent authorities who participate in the implementation of this law are obliged to protect the confidential information to be made in the conduct of the affairs relating to the application of the Convention. We have suggested that instead of saying, "in performing" the words "in performing", not only because it is more linguistically correct, but rather reflects the meaning of the provision. In Serbia, this law prohibits everything related to biological weapons, biological agents and toxins. However, it is allowed to perfect, produce, use, create supplies, acquire, possess and transport biological agents and toxins in prophylactic protection, diagnostic and preventive and other peaceful purposes or in order to contain, or treat, diseases. However, it should always be borne in mind that there is a danger of possible abuse or unprofessional use. This time when we talk about biological and toxic weapons, it is important to point out that the Republic of Serbia at NATO's time of aggression was exposed to all kinds of weapons and that this left too many consequences, above all, on human health. What is known to our citizens is that NATO used ammunition in its aggression against the SRJ with impoverished uranium. It is less known that the alliance used both banned biological and chemical weapons against the SRJ, and the Spanish multi-purpose fighter F18 pilot, Captain Adolfo Luis Martin de la Os, is the first NATO officer to talk about the use of chemical biological and radio active weapons. In a statement by the Spanish list, Martin de la Os, Articulo, accused the governments of countries that have committed aggression against the SRJ for spreading false news of the war itself. He also provided information that killing civilians was not a mistake but a plan. Those who threw all kinds of weapons at us have themselves confessed to crimes, and representatives of the government in Serbia constantly bomb us with words about how Serbia should become a NATO member. The only good thing about it is that every day a growing number of citizens of Serbia who are against it are against joining NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62917	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the prohibition of production, the creation of supplies of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and their destruction, I have submitted an amendment that reads that Article 7 is amended and reads: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is delivering a report to the UN body, which is responsible for supporting the application of the Convention every year until 15 April of the current year for the previous year. "The explanation of Article 7's formulation is more clearly proposed by the amendment and more linguistically correct than the government's proposed formulation. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. So this is about a technical amendment that is more linguistically correct, more precise and more precisely defined by a member, and thus improves the bill. Namely, what is this about, Article 7? For citizens to see, it reads – this ministry in charge of foreign affairs delivers a report to the competent body to support the implementation of the UN Convention by 15 April of the current year. There's only one correction in technical terms. What the government has submitted as a report, they have rejected this amendment with one argument that this amendment is not accepted for reasons why the draft law is more precise and in line with international standards. I don't think the explanation is adequate, it's not well studied, and it's just a verse written and copied. I propose to the government that in the voting day, however, accept this as more language-right and standardised in order to improve this bill. In the end, these ten seconds to take advantage of, as far as this bill is concerned, and in general about the creation of these bacteriological and biological weapons, my suggestion would be to launch action to destroy and not to store this and the weapons that exist in the world right now, because we are witnessing that such weapons are used by these world powers when they are being aggressive to other countries. One of the last aggressions we remember and have witnessed is aggression on the state of Serbia when it was bombed for 78 days. On occasion, I was in the executive council building when three missiles hit the post office and the executive council that was destroyed in that bombing. Ten years later, I got a tumor, I had to take out my left kidney first, and then my left lung, and the question is, what am I going to have to do next? I am convinced that at that time I was poisoned, like all others who were present, precisely from these bombs that were sent to Serbia from the Adriatic, or the Mediterranean Sea. I suggest that action be launched in front of our country so that all of this, and such similar means, are not stored, not lagered, but severely destroyed, because it is devastating for modern civilization and for the modern world at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62919	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62920	Ladies and gentlemen, in article 8, which speaks of penalties for breaking the law. I have submitted an amendment to point (1), which reads: "The fine between 500,000 and 3,000,000 dinars will be fined if the legal person perfects, products, possessions, benefits, creates supplies, acquires, retains, exports, conducts transport, transit, transfer, or transfer to other persons directly or indirectly transfers biological weapons." I have proposed that an amendment be included in the commercial offence, which is punishable under this law, and the cover-up of biological weapons. The government rejected my amendment with a reason that the solution she proposed was "integrated and clear". This argument is written only for order, to write something. How can a comprehensive solution be if the Law prohibits the production and use of biological weapons, among actions that are forbidden and punishable, does not cover up biological weapons? Sounds amazing, like a rough joke. Because of the citizens watching this transmission, I must repeat that I propose that the law prohibits the hiding of biological weapons, the government claims that this is not necessary. What does this mean, practically? Serbia's government says citizens and pharmaceutical companies can hide biological weapons as willingly as possible, without any concern that they will answer for it. What's this about? It is about the arrogance I have spoken of and the interpretation of the amendments to Article 4. Some government official, who read the proposed amendments, did not even try to understand them. It was enough for him to see that the amendment was written by someone from the SRS and rejected. I repeat the third time, the government believes there is no need to ban the hiding of biological weapons in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62921	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Milovan Radovanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62922	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in the act on criminal provisions, Article 8 states: "The fine of 500,000 to 3,000,000 dinars will be punishable for the commercial offence of a legal person if" point 1) "adjusts, products, possessions, uses, creates supplies, acquires, retains, exports, imports, re-exports, carries out transport, transit, transfer or transfer directly or indirectly to other persons biological weapons (Article 3(1))." The amendment, which itself claimed the name of the SRS, states that in Article 8(1), paragraph 1), after the words "other" add the words "physical or legal". In order to avoid different interpretations and abuses, it is necessary to specify by the text of this provision that the ban on the transfer of biological weapons applies to natural and legal persons. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. The bill says "other persons". It can be interpreted as being both physical and legal, but it can only be interpreted and understood. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group shall specify both natural and legal persons, which should have been provided for either by the draft law or, possibly, by amendment intervention and in Article 3(1), to add: "another natural or legal person". It's more accurate in termological terms. The fines provided for by the draft law between 500,000 and 3,000,000 dinars are not so small. Not only that, since it is about the transfer of very dangerous material, biological weapons, it is important to place responsibility for the economic offense precisely on the circle of people or the circle of responsible, and these are natural and legal persons due to the economic offense. In the view of the Government, it states that the Government has not accepted my amendment, that it is clear enough that what is at point 1) of Article 8. Bills, which can be acceptable if they are interpreted as physical and legal persons. We have to admit, Mrs. Malovic, in the amendment I have submitted specifically refers to a circle of persons who should be responsible for the transmission of biological weapons, which is physical and legal persons. It is not at all questionable, possibly, of you as a representative of the Government, to accept this amendment. This amendment, in terms of legal-technical intervention, does not essentially affect the concept of the bill. Here it only gets in the way of improving precision, when it comes to criminal provisions, people who need to be held accountable if they do not comply with this law and the matter that this law regulates.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62923	Mr. Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62924	Col. Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 8. explaining that in Article 8 paragraph 1 point 1), after the words "other" add the words "physical or legal". Article 8 refers to fines applied to serious infringements of this law, i.e. the possibility of a legal person being punished if, among other things, it involves other persons in a process that has to do with biological weapons, and if only a person has committed a serious crime. The amendment sets out more precisely that legal and physical persons can be understood under the notion of a person. This leaves a narrowing possibility of interpretation or interpretation that can protect someone. Speaking of persons who can commit this serious crime that is punishable and in accordance with Article 377. The criminal code of Serbia, I ask Mrs Malovic – are there agreements in Serbia or even laws that allow some people to parade with biological and toxic weapons across Serbia? Is there anyone who will be excluded from Article 377? The criminal law of Serbia and of article 8 of this bill, as legal and as a natural person? There is. We talked about it in principle debate and you know it well, but you're embarrassed to say it. Those faces are members of the NATO Pact. They have been allowed since 2006, under the SOFA agreement, to pass through Serbia whenever they want, to transport what they want, to bring in what they want and to hire whoever they want. Here is what is said to be a member of the 10th agreement, which is very important for the introduction into the country of dangerous substances, biological and toxic weapons: "the equipment, reserves, materials and other assets of the US Government and their partners in the agreement, or private military companies, imported and exported, will not be subject to customs or any other control by Serbian authorities". The US Army and the private companies it engages in co-operation can freely import into Serbia anything it deems necessary, including various types of weapons, dangerous materials, without any verification. Let's just look at what is said in paragraph 2 of point 7 of this famous SOFA agreement: "Aviation, means of transport and U.S. ships are free of control." This amendment applies precisely to the transfer of rights to other persons, but also to adopt it, you will not have any weight since NATO members are untouchable for both the law and the conventions and for the criminal law of Serbia. I'd very much like to see you next day as members of NATO for one of these serious crimes you impose a fine of 500 to three million dinars, according to Article 8 paragraph 1 point 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62925	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Milojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62926	I have submitted an amendment to the bill on banning production and the creation of supplies of biological and toxic weapons and their destruction. The amendment reads: "Article 8 paragraph 1 of the second sentence: "the stuff of the supplies" is the word "hidden." "For successful implementation and achievement of the objective of the law, it is necessary among the activities that will be sanctioned by fines, which you have stated in the Bill's proposal, which are: perfecting, producing products, benefits and creating supplies, carrying out transportation, loading, etc., should be added the word "covering". I find it much more difficult to conceal biological and toxic weapons from those offences. The government has not accepted this amendment, on the grounds that it is clear enough in the law. And the question is, does this mean that it's allowed to conceal biological weapons without you bearing any responsibility?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62927	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62928	Article 8 refers to activities for which fines will be imposed under this law. I suggested adding a new point, at which penalties would also be pronounced for: "bacteriological, biological or toxic weapons". So whoever destroys the bacteriological, biological or toxic weapon self-initiatively, without knowledge, approval and supervision of the commission and the competent authorities involved in the implementation of this law. To my astonishment, the government rejected this amendment, with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Republic of Serbia does not possess bacteriological, biological weapons, because it has been a party to the Convention since its entry into force in 1975." According to this argument of the government, we didn't need this law at all. And what does this explanation have to do with the subject of the amendment? This explanation would be excellent, logical and acceptable if the law applied to the state of Serbia. But it applies not only to the state of Serbia but to its citizens, to legal and natural persons, it refers to citizens who, at the moment of the execution of a criminal act which is the subject of this law, reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is that in 1975 Serbia signed the Convention on the Prohibition of These Weapons and that it does not possess this weapon, and of course it does not own it, in itself it is not a guarantee that there is no such weapon on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We know it's located at least 107 locations on KIM. And now according to this law, since you refuse our amendment, every single individual has the right, if they come into contact with biological weapons, let's say, some individual who works at a pharmaceutical company, who works at an institute where they do medical research, where they're being tested for drugs, a man brings out biological agents, who knows what reasons, wants to destroy them, he has the right to go out into the yard, in the middle of the street and destroy them the way he thinks he should, as he knows and how he can. We find this unacceptable. At the end of this debate, I must remind the citizens of Serbia of the following. You have rejected the SRS's proposal to find a ban on the use of this weapon in the name of the law, among the prohibitions. You refused an SRS proposal to ban the cover-up of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons. You refused the SRS proposal to ban advertising of this weapon, as you refused and the proposal to ban coercion from forcing someone else to manufacture, hide or use this weapon and in the end, you reject our proposal to legally ban anyone in Serbia from self-initiatively destroying any supply of biological, bacteriological or toxic weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62929	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular, i.e. before I conclude, I would like to ask the proposing representative, Mrs. Minister Snezana Malovic, if she wants a word? Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62930	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, during the previous debate led by the National Assembly on the draft law on the prohibition of completion, production and creation of bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons and its destruction, have been given a comprehensive explanation of the reasons why its adoption is proposed. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological Weapons, which is the term in use, establishes an effective ban prohibiting the development, production, acquisition, transfer, storage and use of biological and toxic weapons. I also consider it necessary to point out that the comprehensive application of the obligations arising from this Convention, which are contained in the draft law, should be put in the context of other laws which contain relevant provisions concerning the application of the Convention, such as the Criminal Code, the Law on Foreign Trade and Arms of Military Equipment, because these dual purposes and other regulations. When interpreting the Convention itself, it should also take into account the additional clarification and interpretations given in the relevant documents of the Conference, the examinations contained after the Convention has entered into force. I would like to remind you that the first review conference for the assessment of the implementation of the Convention on the Banning of Production and bacterial and Toxic Weapons and Expansion was held in 1980, the last 2006 as well as the final preparations for the seventh review conference to be held in Geneva from 5-22 December 2011. The need for further interpretation has arisen among other things as a result of new security challenges and threats as compared to the time when the convention was adopted. The activities of the parties to an effective and full application of the Convention are complementing new measures including those at national level, which implies the adoption of national measures in the area of biosecurity, biosecurity, the submission of a report on confidence-building measures, as well as the adoption of criminal measures. The primary function of adopting these measures is to prevent the threat of bioterrorist attacks. In order to mention measures that are effective and can be applied, national legislation, as well as other relevant regulations, should be adopted in this respect. In relation to the measures to be adopted on the national plan, the draft law in Article 7 confirms the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to submit an annual report on confidence-building measures to be delivered each year to the UN Department of Disarmament, based in Geneva, by 15 April. In addition, the report shall contain information on research centres and laboratories, national research and development programmes, on infectious diseases in the territory of the Parties to the Convention, on promotion, research and professional contacts, information on legislative activities relating to the obligations arising from the Convention. Also, in Articles 8 and 9. The law prescribes fines for commercial offence and violation of obligations under the law. As far as other criminal measures are concerned, I would like to remind myself on this occasion that they are previously contained in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 377. The criminal code prescribes a criminal offence, as well as criminal measures in cases of illicit production, trafficking and possession of prohibited weapons, including biological and toxic weapons. This is a solution in line with modern European legislation in the area mentioned. Export and import controls of dual-use goods are prescribed by the Act on Foreign Trade, Military Equipment and double-use goods, with other sublaws, as well as the adoption of arms control lists, or dual-use goods. These lists shall be periodically harmonised in accordance with the relevant EU lists and the Vastenary Arrangement. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted new control lists on 30 June 2011, which were published in "The Official Messenger". As regards the remaining obligations relating to biosecurity and biosecurity, they will be regulated by the new law in accordance with Article 4(2). He needs to prepare the departments of power. At the stage of the debate in the relevant committees, 36 amendments were tabled to the proposal for this law. The government has adopted three amendments, while the other amendments have not been accepted for reasons that have been explained for each amendment individually. I believe that the necessary conditions have been created for the adoption of this law, where MPs will vote for its adoption in an appropriate manner and that in this way the Republic of Serbia will be classified among those countries that have regulated a significant commitment to national blue arising from the Convention itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-03-0.u62931	I thank Mrs. Malovic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We'll continue our work on Tuesday, November 8th at 10:00 p.m.
