ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on railways and I will explain this amendment as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment, although I must admit that it has accepted some of the amendments of the SRS, but one of those that I think is obliged to accept, that is precisely this amendment. Some of the things that are very much related to this amendment, I was also talking about in principle, I don't see Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic here, but his associates are here and they probably remember what this is all about. In fact, it is here that we are talking about spring crossings, and I think it is much more effective that all the spring crossings that were owned by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to express myself more professionally, at which the right of use had local self-government, should in their own terms belong to the railway. Why did I ask for this with an amendment? It's simply because the railways keep all these road crossings anyway, and on the other hand, units of local self-government want to get rid of their property over these railway crossings, because they just represent a certain burden and a certain ballast. We have many examples of practice where long-standing litigation is being conducted between local self-government and the railways over some things whose jurisdiction is when some haparia or some unforeseen thing happens. We have, too, one situation that is related to these spring crossings, that some economic operators have owned their own, some still own, industrial colossals and those as such, I mean the economy of the subjects, no longer exist, or have experienced one large or significant ownership transformation, so that there is practically no real denominator and there is no and it is again making it more difficult for the situation that is related to the transitions. One such case, and there are many we have in Nis, the former EI factory owns its own, means in front of two entrances to the factory, crossing the Nis railway – Dimitrovgrad or Nis – Sofia, according to Istanbul and the two circular crossings are owned by the EI. We also know what the condition is, unfortunately, the EI factory, and practically as far as these road crossings are concerned, if they remain in the law, no one, in any way, has any authority over them. I only cited this case from Nis, as I come from Nis, cited the case of EI, and there are such examples in almost every city in Serbia, and I want to say in the end that it's also strange that the government has not accepted such a reasonable amendment. That's why I'm appealing, but I don't see that there's a minister here to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59342	Mr. Zoran Krasic wants to follow this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59343	Of course, on this amendment, but to better understand why the SRS has submitted this amendment, please and I suggest that Article 3 of this Act be looked at, point 6 of the railway area, point 9, point 15 of the public railway infrastructure and point 34 of the circular band. When you look at these definitions that you've given for these terms, you see that the amendment that Nikola Savic submitted is actually an amendment confirming these definitions, but in article four. I don't know if anyone can understand your response to this amendment. You said – units of local self-government only participate in financing the maintenance of the road crossing while maintaining it is done by the infrastructure manager. You have also confirmed in your opinion the position we represent with this amendment. Why this amendment is good. Because it takes into account, the property factor, the obligation of the one exercising property rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia on rail infrastructure, rope or beyond, it is also irrelevant that this amendment promotes the safety of rail traffic. We know that the railroad avoids this, prefers co-production with local self-government to solve it. However, the Republic must make a commitment through its public enterprise, because I need to draw attention to you that this public company is public authority on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and it is not a purely income company, but a company that must suffer all the consequences and economic conditions, but also fulfils its basic function – preserving these assets, preserving assumptions for orderly traffic and liability for safe traffic on our tracks. It is clear to us that the public company wants to avoid these obligations a little bit. We understand that he wants to share his obligations with someone else. We in the SRS find that this is unacceptable, as is unacceptable and something that has been promoted by some amendments, where both property and security, from the point of view of traffic, and in any other respect, is being distributed to a system that, according to technological principles and technical requirements, must be unique. We will take advantage of the opportunity, if promoters of this kind of separatism of technology, technical, security, to show them that this kind of amendment intervention is non-civilizing, incompatible. When a single system is created in the area of traffic, when a single European sky is created, someone would share kilometers of rails, wagons to achieve its state-of-the-art aspirations under Germany's orders. We are waiting for these dilbers to come forward, to inform the public that this type of "five columns" in Serbia no one wants to suffer anymore. After all, WikiLeaks also informs us that radicals have always been right, when in time they warned about the individual representatives of this government for the past 11 years. I have to announce one thing to the government. I'm glad Mr. Mrkonjic is here. He knows that very well. You know, something's a form, something's a essence. From the point of view of the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our interest is to carry out confidential business in public enterprises by the Republic. Our interest is not to tear into some companies by system -- every village in Bulgaria, in order to fulfill the mere form that allegedly exists in some directives of some association that hates the Republic of Serbia. If you don't believe me, you had until an hour ago to see the EU's memorial in the Palace of Serbia. Popeye came to teach us that only in 2045 can you think about the EU. Forget the EU story, their standards, etc. The EU has not invented the tracks. The tracks have long existed in Serbia. Cars and locomotives have been built in Serbia for a long time. The railroad was a large system that united a large metal complex and it worked. He transferred some internal losses, but worked and ended both economic and security and traffic and social components of the Serbian society. They worked people, and then, under great stress, Europe went into destruction to allegedly meet European standards. We stand up to it, as is quite the case with the view of one country's economy whether the deficit is financed from primary emissions or financed by foreign debt. Here, you've been against the primary show, we're in charge from abroad, and the consequences are even worse when World Bank and IMF policies are followed. This law should be a turning point. Under the law, representatives of pro-European parties should say the date when Serbian railways with their wagons and trains will reach Pristina. Shut up. Thank God, you're not laughing because you're clear. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjits, if you are authorized, I invite you to accept this amendment. He's in favor of traffic security. It promotes all the principles and all the concepts that you set out in Article 3. It's a bill of law. A little while ago, I quoted those points from that article, where it simply promotes the principle of finally knowing who's responsible for what. By the way, as far as this Nis story is concerned, these railroads have been moving from the city of Nis since 1991, and they never move. Three times some have won the election on the platform – if we win, the railways will have to move. There, they won the election, the railroad didn't move. The sophisticated form of those promises is what Boris Tadic said – if you vote for me, I will hire 250,000, and he fired 450 people. People, mind. I know there are a lot of people in the railroad who care that our railroad works. She has both objective and subjective problems. This should be addressed, but not by lulls on EU directives. Forget it, please. After all, our railways can be arranged in a relatively short time, just as we all want them to look, but we have to be aware. There's some stuff to drive, and do we have that stuff? Passengers should be driven, and do we have these passengers on existing destinations when this democratic degradation of the Republic of Serbia took place? Please stop with the blue trains. Once Tito was photographed, so a man when he was a minister and he drove a movie so he could go through the train and say hello to Jagodina and these places. Then we also have this mayor taking pictures of himself in his Beovoza. Well, our railroad won't be marked with such characters, will it? It's supposed to work. We shouldn't run the history of our railroad from when Gilas was driving, when Velya was driving, and when Tito was driving. People, mind. It is high time and do not mention the EU there anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59344	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Before I continue to ask if anyone else wants a word, based on Articles 90 and 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing the Members of the People's Parliament that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, with a break in our work being set at the usual 1400 hours. Depending on the way the discussion is conducted and on how much of the time available we will use to discuss in particular, today we will certainly end the debate in the details that have just been opened, the search in particular in the draft law on railways, and, if time allows, we will also go to the discussion in particular of the next two points of the agenda and the joint principle search with the aim of completing the work for today, ending discussions in details on all the points of the agenda. If the pace of our work and the use of the time available is different during the day, then we will agree on a possible work for tomorrow. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59345	A colleague, Mirko Munjic, submitted another amendment to Article 4. It's a draft law on railways. This Article 4th or first position of this member defines the railway infrastructure and counterpart Munjic noticed that this definition lacks the term "region stations". It's really like that. If we take a closer look at this article 4, we'll see that there's a tax list here of what's in the railway infrastructure, and there's tracks, tunnels, bridges, fences, telecommunications equipment, security equipment, but there's no ransacking stations. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the concept of Rural Stations and Randing Stations themselves are an inevitable factor in the communication of traffic, railways, especially when it comes to freight traffic and that this was to be found in the proposal for this law, or other ducks, that the government should and should adopt this amendment. Simply, if this is even further analyzed, it can be concluded that someone from this system deliberately singles out the Rural Stations, because we know the importance and essence of these Randry Stations and tomorrow when a railway transport is privatised or part of it, then someone might just be interested in buying these Randry Stations, because they are very important and, as I said, an inevitable factor, and the rest of this railway infrastructure, which we are talking about here, will remain as ballast railways, or society, or the Republic of Serbia. So I urge the minister to consider and adopt this amendment. Just to let you know, Mrs. Comic, all this time I'm gonna use, you're gonna have to say no to me from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59346	Two minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59347	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted two of our six amendments, and that certainly brings us joy, it's always a great joy when some amendment is accepted, but I must tell you that these amendments were not essentially the most important. As you know, Mr. Minister, two days ago, when the National Assembly discussed this bill in principle, I said we wouldn't be able to vote for this law unless the government accepted our amendments that would allow, on the one hand, for most of the railway infrastructure, i.e. the railway infrastructure on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, except Corridor 10, passes into the property of the province, and on the other hand, to allow the province to establish a commercial company that would manage the railway infrastructure, which would pass into the property of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I explained two days ago why we have this attitude and why we cannot stand down. I explained that the reason why we view this search as an overture before the start of the debate on the public property bill and we are convinced that unless the Government accepts our amendments to the railway infrastructure, then it will not be legally possible in two weeks, when the National Assembly will discuss the proposal for a law on public property. I don't want to repeat all those arguments I made two days ago on Wednesday. I won't talk about the condition on the lines of Vojvodina, I won't talk about how the railways have been unmounted in Vojvodina for the last decades, about how many wagons have been taken from the AP Vojvodina for the last twenty years. I said all that on Wednesday and it's, unfortunately, still facts. Perhaps only in parentheses to point out that even the journalists thought that the data I cited was large, so they didn't write that 16,000 cars were taken from Vojvodina, but only 1,600. It would be a lot and 1,600. I understand the press that they didn't believe that 16,000 cars have been taken from Vojvodina for the last 20 years, but ladies and gentlemen, that's unfortunately the fact that 16,000 wagons have been taken from Vojvodina for the last 20 years. That's not the point today. Today is the topic that now is the moment when we can agree that the railway infrastructure will pass into the property of the AP Vojvodina on its territory and that the right of the Vojvodina to establish a business company that would manage infrastructure in the territory of the province. These amendments, unfortunately, are not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now we saw, about ten minutes ago, that the committee responsible was the National Assembly, i.e. The Transport and Communications Committee has formulated an amendment that is similar to our amendments at first sight, but when a person looks a little bit more closely, then it can be concluded that it is quite another matter. According to the amendment of the Committee on Transport and Liaison of the National Assembly, there would be a solution to the law under which the right to use or to operate at the part of the railway infrastructure for which society, i.e. the company in the establishment of the Republic of Serbia, which manages railways, or railway infrastructure, has no economic interest, may be given to the AP or the local self-government unit. The original text of the proposal only said that the right to use over these tracks could be given to local self-government units. Now there is an addition of this member and the possibility of it being handed over to the AP Vojvodina. I'm sure, Mr. Minister, that you understand better than I do this difference that exists between a solution from our amendment and this solution proposed by the Committee on Traffic and Relations of the National Assembly. According to this proposal, it would be the case for me to use a collokual term on blind tracks, on some railways, which do not have the economic interest of a railway infrastructure management company. We're not looking for that railway infrastructure whose maintenance is no longer of economic interest. That would be crazy. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina requires a railway infrastructure because it is possible on the one hand, and because, as I said two days ago, by competing with European and other funds, we want to contribute to the quality, improve the quality of rail transport of passengers, persons and goods in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, because the Republic of Serbia has shown and proved that it is considering the development of railway infrastructure in Vojvodina, we think that the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina would know and can work in a more correct and better way. That's why we're looking for a railway infrastructure, but we're real and we're not asking, and you're never going to hear any unreal demands from us, we're not looking for Corridor 10, because it's a rail infrastructure of international importance, it should be and remain in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. We think everything else would work better if the owner was an AP Vojvodina. There's been one newspaper in these two days. The government of the AP Vojvodina, which supported the SVM unanimous amendment, met on Wednesday. I hope this support of the entire government of the AP Vojvodina means that all those parties that together make up the government of the AP Vojvodina will vote in favour of our amendments. The different treatment would not have made sense, because I do not see a racio in that two days ago they supported our amendments to the infrastructure of the railway in Vojvodina, and that in a few days in the National Assembly MPs belonging to the same parties, the ruling majority are voting against these amendments. That is why I hope it is still possible that these amendments will pass and be accepted on Monday. In these conclusions, the AP government unequivocally states, I did not speak of it two days ago, but it is important that it stands in the conclusions of the government of Vojvodina, that it is not thought that it is one of my interpretations of the Constitution, that according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is possible that the railway infrastructure may pass on to the possession of the Vojvodina for the territory of the province. Namely, Article 183. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the province determines in the area of traffic, in accordance with the law, or regulates issues of regional importance in the areas of road, river and rail traffic and road planning. Based on this provision, as I said, a constitutional framework was created for the takeover of intelligence in rail traffic by the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, the Statute of Vojvodina, which has been confirmed by the National Assembly, determines the competences of the AP Vojvodina in the area of road, river and rail traffic and road arrangements. In accordance with the provisions of the Statute, Vojvodina regulates the issue of regional importance in road, river and rail transport, in accordance with the Constitution, approved international contracts and the law which determines the issue of regional importance. These powers, unfortunately, are not as precise as those in the area of roads and waterways. But, as we could hear more than once in the debate over the Statute of Vojvodina in the National Assembly, the Statute is a sublegal act. This means that in a more detailed way, these powers can be developed by any law adopted by the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina has been defined by the authorities of Vojvodina only in the area of inspection control in rail traffic in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I therefore do not understand why the LSV in its amendments referred to the Law on the Jurisdictions of the Vojvodina. The law cannot be called upon, as the law does not provide for jurisdiction over the takeover of railway infrastructure by the AP Vojvodina. As I said earlier, this allows the Constitution and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and therefore, from a political point of view, I see no difference between the amendments SVM and LSV. That is why we are pleased, that the League of Amendments, which, however, are from a legal point of view, is the same requirements that we have formulated as parties. As I said earlier, the conclusions of the government of the AP Vojvodina were unanimously accepted two days ago in Novi Sad. What might be even more interesting, I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you know about this strategy, because it was accepted before you became a minister. You were the vice president of the National Assembly at the time and we worked very well together. It is a strategy for the development of rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport in the Republic of Serbia since 2008-2015. This strategy was adopted, I think, in January 2008. Point 4 of this strategy provides that the management of transport and infrastructure owned by the state will gradually be transferred to the authorities of the AP and local self-government units. We got to that point today. This railroad law can do that, and we think it would be cellificial. I once again appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and to our partners from the ruling coalition to support our amendments. I am forced to say unequivocally, as I said two days ago, that we will not be able to vote in favour of this law and we will not be able to allow the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, if amended, I am free to say SVM, LSV and the Government of the AP Vojvodina will not be accepted. We will not be able to accept this because this law and the law on public property, which will be on the agenda of the National Assembly on 22 September, will define the potential for the economic development of the AP Vojvodina in the longer run. We simply cannot assist the adoption of a law that is economically harmful to the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and therefore I hope that these amendments will still be accepted. I spoke two days ago about the fact that the railway infrastructure is nowhere in the world anymore and has long been a symbol of statehood. Of course, it's not a secession, it's not a matter of establishing special railways of Vojvodina, it's not about Serbia's railways, it's about the fact that Vojvodina wants to take over railway infrastructure on its territory, as it wants to take over the second-class roads, as it wants to take over regional channels and its means and resources that it would receive in various competitions, it wants to invest in this infrastructure and it wants to allow for more quality rail transport for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59348	Time was used by representatives of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59349	I respect Mr. Pastor. It is true that our co-operation has always been good, but it is my duty to say, and that is also my opinion and opinion of the Commission that has been making amendments, including the Government, and I will read everything so that there is no misunderstanding. Thanks to Mr. Zoran, the railway is a unique traffic system. Unfortunately, I'm going to remind myself of some of the times when certain republics introduced the electricity of the rail system that was currently responding to them. Then, when we electrocuted all the tracks, we couldn't drag with the same locomotives to Ljubljana, but we were changing at the border of the locomotive, in Yugoslavia. If that weren't the case, Mr. Zorane, Mr. Krasic is right. I say the railroad is a unique system. I'd very much like to, in fact, give this law to use, absolutely, and local self-government, even an autonomous province. But to be precise, to read the explanation for what you said, for all your amendments that we did not adopt, the bill found that public railway infrastructure in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which is in line with the law governing funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, public property is state property, property of an autonomous province and property of a unit of local self-government. All forms of property have equal legal protection. Natural wealth and goods that have been determined to be of general interest and property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are in state property. There may be other things in state property, in accordance with the law. Property of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the way it is used and available is regulated by law. So another law that will probably come in a month will regulate property issues. I agree that we're going a little ahead, but when that law is passed, we're going to adapt immediately to that law and what we're talking about here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59350	The Messenger of the People, Pastor Balint, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59351	Mr. Minister, thank you for your explanation. I have seen the government's opinion, and I have seen what made the government think that these amendments should be rejected, but I am still at the point of view that, in accordance with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they could be transferred to the ownership of the AP of Vojvodina's railway infrastructure, except Corridor 10, which we are not talking about, of course. It's not and it wouldn't be real. I also quoted the government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy as saying that the infrastructure currently owned by Serbia will gradually be transferred to the authorities of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. It is true that it is still in the legal force of the 1995 law, on funds in the property of the Republic of Serbia that determines that autonomous provinces and local self-government have virtually no property, but I will remind you that this law today is against the constitution because it provides that both local self-government and autonomous provinces have and can have their own property. Unfortunately, no public property law has been passed in the constitution until the end of 2008, and for this reason we have insisted on passing the law for years. Unfortunately, the law will now be passed at the last minute, in a teat, and because it is clear to everyone that without that law there can be nothing from Serbia's EU bid. That's the only reason this law is now going to be passed, otherwise it would have been passed two and a half years ago, as prescribed by our current constitution. As I said earlier and referred to other members of the Constitution, these amendments are legally possible. Now the political question is whether anyone thinks whether the government considers it celibate, that it is opportunised to be, that the railway infrastructure is owned by the Vojvodina. I've explained the intentions. The intentions, of course, are not that the trains from Serbia's territory cannot use railway infrastructure in Vojvodina. It's not an intention, it doesn't occur to anyone in Vojvodina. The intention is to allow Vojvodina to invest in infrastructure on its territory, because unfortunately, I have to say that the Republic of Serbia has proved in recent decades that it imagines investing in infrastructure, rail infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That is why we believe that these amendments are not only legally possible, but are both politically correct and celery. As for the law on public property and the relationship between the Law on Railways and the Law on Public Property, I can also trust you, Mr. Minister, that you will propose to amend this law as soon as the Law on Public Property is passed, if there is a cohesion, if there is a solution to the public property law under which the railway infrastructure will be transferred to the property of the AP Vojvodina. But I also have to say that we've seen things happen several times over the last few years. They're going the next way. If this law is adopted so that Vojvodina will not be given the opportunity to operate the railway in its territory other than Corridor 10, then it will not be provided for by public property law and will be said – this is not possible because it is not provided for by the Law on Railways. Believe that's the case in practice, and I know how it should be legal, but believe me, in practice, we've experienced it many times. That's why I said two days ago that this law was forging, unfortunately, and that's why it's collateral damage to this whole public property story, but we can't step down, because by way of derogation from our amendments and voting for a law that doesn't contain these amendments, we would directly sign that we agree that Vojvodina and other laws don't take over railway infrastructure, second row roads and regional channels. We believe that this solution from economics, not from political, but from an economic point of view, would be harmful to the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. That's what the LSV thinks, and the entire government of the AP Vojvodina. I don't know how other parties will behave in voting day, but I hope they won't be willing to vote for a law that means economical or that carries economic damage to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. That is why I still hope that these amendments, regardless of what I understand about the government's opinion and attitude, will still be accepted in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59352	Five minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Krasic, and after him is the messenger of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59353	Usually, Mr. Carrot, when problems arise, then the enemy is sought, the guilty one is sought. At the time of Tito, it was abroad, at the time of 1981, you know that in Pristina, beans, saucer beans in the dorm room, so demonstrations due to saucer beans, etc. So anything can pass. Mrs. Komic, let me draw attention to you, these two papers we've received, as far as the amendment of the Transport and Connection Committee is concerned, I remind you that they actually wrote an amendment to the draft law on rail traffic, and it's not on the agenda. The report also said they were considering the draft legislation on rail traffic. It is on the agenda of the Law of Railways, so all these insinuations should be returned well to Mr. Urosevic, let him see with the service whether they have made a mistake or missed the law. They probably missed the law because the name of the law is mentioned in four places, and three places talk about the Law on Railway Traffic. Let's go back now, there's no way the infrastructure can split, no way. Neither can the statutes, which is unconstitutional, under the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, which is also unconstitutional, do not allow it to happen, as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said, depending on whichOUR holds the route, the diesel or electric train is changing. That's how it was, so they were OUR, so they were working organisations, and there was self-government in the railroad, so it didn't work. It can't work, because they can't apply traffic regulations for two kilometers and change. There can be no difference in the degree of infrastructure, sustainability of infrastructure, etc. So it's a unique technological system. The infrastructure cannot be owned except for the Republic of Serbia. The existing Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia is a good law. This law lacks only a few more provisions to have where to spread its parts in district headquarters, so that they can control local self-government by exercising property powers over goods of public interest, in general use, etc. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, like your coalition partners, they'd sell the Danube and the railroad, they'd sell it all. If anyone calls for the government's conclusions of the province of Vojvodina, Pajtic, that's a crime to tell you the truth. My point of view is that it's a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59354	People's MP, I warn you that you express all your reasoned views in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59355	What did I do wrong, what word?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59356	If you hadn't made a mistake, I wouldn't have reminded you of what you're laughing at and what you can't do when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Just please, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59357	If the word "crime" is forbidden, please do not make additions to the Rules of Procedure with forbidden words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59358	People's MP, I now warn you that you are obliged to listen to the presidency's suggestion when it comes to parliamentary failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Please, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59359	Whoever understands will understand. Let's move on. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I call you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you should not have passed this bill on to the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. It's forbidden. It's unconstitutional. You must delete that provision from the bill. If that provision remains, you feed them, you give them expectations. To say "if it is owned by the AP Vojvodina, they will sooner reach funds from abroad," reportedly for maintenance. That way of thinking must be forbidden. Only the Republic of Serbia can be in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59360	People's MP, please don't promote that any way of thinking must be prohibited. These are very dangerous statements that you, in the heat of your argument, probably don't even have the attention to saying them. When a MP says during a session of the National Assembly that the way of opinion must be prohibited, I must respond, so please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with as many arguments as your time and your freedom to discuss the amendment implies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59361	So, Mr Mrkonjic, I warn you, everything that is not in accordance with the Constitution should be stopped, because the Constitution of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia adopted the referendum and expressed their political, national, economic, social and any other will. The Constitution obliges you not to put such things in your bill. This is very polite as a warning, because a plate of beans has made students in Pristina and today Serbia's railway does not drive the territory of KIM. That's the connection to the railroad bill. We must, on the basis of experience, learn some lessons and not normally give materials to be interpreted differently or to have certain things happening in the AP Vojvodina. As for those subjective weaknesses in the Railways, which I've told you about, the most subjective weakness comes to you from who's director of the Railways. One lady influenced him to be, hired people who lost their jobs in the state service, so they got severances, so they go on official roads. There's a lot of irrational costs. The railway in Serbia is generally in poor condition on every square centimetre of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There's no better, there's no worse, there's no worse. This international corridor is being held due to economic interest, freight transport, but on other sections it is weak, both towards Zajecar, and towards Vrsac, and towards Kursumlia, and according to Rasko, both here and there, that I do not tell you all that, you know it better than anyone can imagine. We should be looking for our railways, Mr. Mrkonjic, a strategic partner. I'd like to propose to you the Chinese, they've proven themselves. Mr. Carrot, I know this idea can't go away. Why? Tadic doesn't like Chinese, Gilas doesn't like Chinese, it says "Wikiliks". Have you read what WikiLeaks says? They say -- like the Russians, they haven't built a single metro in 30 years. "Expert" for the Dragan Gilas Railways. That's our problem. It is not our problem in the tracks, it is our problem that there is no political will, but the five-colony will to meet all EU requirements, so that in 2476 some of us, not to tell you in which knee, descendants come to the conclusion that something exists and is called the EU. You made a mantra and, as the American Embassy lady said, which follows you: "Imagine, they believe in their dreams and lies about the EU". That's our problem. The railroad will be ready in two years. Are there investors from abroad? There are. Is there an interest? There is, theirs, ours. No, you don't. Why? Because in EU projects, this is the area, their market, where our traffic communications need to run their goods, and you won't get a cress to open an early place. That's why you said you give 10,000 euros to every stranger if he opens his job. This poor and in charge of Serbia is funding foreigners who will hire someone. It's the metal problem of this policy that's being led, not the economic and any other policy. Mr. Grouchy, I'm asking you for more courage, because you're an experienced man. Whether someone loves you or not, it's his personal problem, but you have practical experience with these things and you have to say – a lot, with people from your profession, why some things can't go normically like this. I know you don't like this bill, either. Why? This is a simple girl who will never be able to live as it is written here. Our railroad, that ugly, bad, not European, had a standard of a simple bolt on a locomotive, a wagon, a turnabout, every piece was standardized. The people say state in the state, as a system. What is it today? The bed of party staff. Not today, long ago. It stagniates, of course. All countries fund their railways. If we have to finance it and we need it, then that railroad should provide the same service to the one in Kursumlia, the one in Vrsac and this in Belgrade, and not -- if you give me the infrastructure in Vojvodina, I will organize some of my route, my railroad, my transport organizer, this, that. The constitution says that human rights are fully enjoyed in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm mad at you. Don't give them control, don't give them control. What would they look like to control and control by train inspectors? Who would they take the bills to? What kind of mechanisms would you control? There's no law. If you want to fool them, let's give you something just so you don't triple, that's another thing. Be careful, that finger, go all hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59362	Nine minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 27, I am obliged to give you an oral statement and you will soon receive a report that a print error has been detected in the report of the parent committee, the board of directors and you will be informed of the corrections. The messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov, has a word, after which the messenger of the people, Laszlo Varg.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59363	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not recognised the principle that it is trying to establish amendments to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the amendments to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, which was supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the principle that whoever has funded, built and maintained must have management, founding and ownership rights over the same team that he has fully or mainly funded, which he has maintained for years and that this right should not have one who has not invested any funds in what he has demonstrated that in no way can adequately maintain all that infrastructure. I will say one thing that before the First World War, the train from Belgrade to Saturday went faster than it did today, and people arrived faster from Belgrade to Saturday by train than they can today, if it is even possible to do so today. The principle that we want to establish by investing these amendments is the same principle as with restitution. If someone doesn't mind the restitution of those who built these assets back into property, I don't see how they can be bothered that those assets that the AP Vojvodina funded and built back into its property, as there's no logic that someone invests in other people's assets so there's no logic that the funds in the railways can be invested all, they should invest all of them and they must invest all of them, but it can only be owned by one and it can be the Republic of Serbia. This is important for this Law on Railways because, if this does not become an integral part of the Law on Railways, we will come really tomorrow into a situation that will be explained, when we adopt the Law on Public Property and that it is not possible for railways to become the property of the AP Vojvodina, because this does not foresee the Law on Railways and that is something of course, I mean one MP from Vojvodina, but surely MPs of the League of Social Democrats and the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians cannot accept as a legitimate explanation. What we want to do is just, right, logical and reasonable and that's something that will not damage the AP of Vojvodina economically so that any other solution will indeed cause economic damage to the AP and its citizens. We do not need, as Mr Krasic says, someone to feed us, to give us some hope, to suggest, we know very well what is important for the AP Vojvodina, so knows the government of the AP Vojvodina, and I hope that those MPs who come from Vojvodina, regardless of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment, in the day of voting, will still consider who they represent in this assembly and that they will have understanding for the amendments of the League of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, because only they will prevent the AP Vojvodina from doing economic damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59364	Thank you. Mr. Lasallo Varga has three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59365	Madam President, Mr. Minister, you are one of the most famous engineers in Serbia and you really have our great respect for that, but I think this is a really complex legal matter, and I'm sure that this attitude of yours or that this position has been influenced by the lawyers, because I think it was a situation, and I think they've misinformed you and I'm convinced that the explanation or explanation that the government refused our amendment is legally not standing. Namely, our amendment and our amendment and our amendments are not required to establish a province property over the works of railway infrastructure. Our amendment only requires the formation of a framework, so predicting the possibility of it in accordance with another law that will eventually be on the agenda. I think that's a big difference. If we were to ask that this law establish a province property over this infrastructure we would not be right, but we did not write it in our amendment, for this reason we simply think that when the Government rejected this amendment from the legal side of the view it was wrong. Politically, it's a completely different question. I just want to give you one or two more arguments. On the one hand, I don't think the government would allow itself to adopt this strategy that Mr. Pastor quoted, which states that part of the railway infrastructure would be transferred to the AP and units of local self-government, since the strategy was adopted in 2008, at the time the same asset law in the possession of the Republic was in force. Right? And then it turns out that either now the government is wrong or it wasn't. On the other hand, there is another law, the Law on Planning and Construction, the same law on assets in the possession of the Republic, was not an obstacle to the transfer of unbuilt building land to the property of the AP, that land used by the AP Vojvodina, the same land, therefore, very identical or similar legal situation. For that reason, I think it would be legal to think about these things one more time, and as far as political coincidences are concerned, that's each other and no less important argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59366	I thank you, Mrkonjic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59367	I thank you for your kind words to my young friends, and I remind you that this government, of course, respecting everything you've said now, primarily by looking for a legal basis for some of the elements of this law, is absolutely taking care of it. I remind you one more thing, I have often suffered criticism for these three years as a minister that I first began to realize Corridor 10 in Vojvodina. I've had a lot of trouble explaining that I'm not a separatist but that technologically, professionally, professionally, it's the best and fastest solution to the problems we have with the corridors. You've seen the latest reports of these banners, that we're the worst with infrastructure, of course we're the worst now we're not. The same thing we're doing now in preparation for Corridor ten railways, we're going from Belgrade to Novi Sad to Subotica, why? Because there are technical and technological conditions not political, most favourable. Believe me, if you believe I'm a good trust engineer, give me confidence, so technologically as Mr. Krasic says, it's impossible for the railroad to have five bosses. This has led us in various times, here I am among you the oldest, in various times, in various political options, in the situation in which we are today, that we are the worst of infrastructure. The railway is still relative and good as it is travel. So, our desire is absolutely to follow an existing standard that I admit is not an expert but technically, professionally speaking, this government is absolutely taking care of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is why I insist that you understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59368	People's MP, Mr. Varga, you want a replica. Everything was pretty clear and there was nothing offensive, there was no basis for replication. Minister insists, come on this time he's exerted influence on me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59369	A really short replica, so if the railway is a unique system and you've just said it, and there's no reason to be able to divide it, then that should also apply to those railways that are inconclusive from the economic point of view. Then in that case you couldn't have this solution proposed by the Committee and, on the other hand, the Government itself proposed in the bill, practically accepted. So, either one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59370	People's MP Dobrislav Prelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59371	Madam Chairman, I was otherwise intending to report to this amendment, but since my colleague Jerkov has in some way called MEPs from Vojvodina, I had to answer. As an SRS MP from the AP Vojvodina, I believe you're right not to accept these amendments. The fact that Miss Jerkov said that they are justified and economically and that they have the support of the people of Vojvodina, above all, I do not think that they are politically justified and that they should certainly not be accepted. But it is certainly also the fact that you gave them arguments and that they also consider the Alliance of Duke Hungarians and leaguemen to have the right to something like this and to seek property in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. First of all, you allowed them to adopt the legal statute of the AP Vojvodina and the Law of Transfer of Jurisdiction. They want to control, as Miss Jerkov says, the government of the Republic of Vojvodina all on the AP Vojvodina. And the waters of the Vojvodina and the Duke's woods, now and the railroad, that's just an introduction, you'll see what happens when it comes here in front of the Assembly of Public Property Act, only then will you have anything to hear. Citizens of Vojvodina who support these two political parties, 0.3% don't think so. Most Vojvodina citizens think that Vojvodina is an integral part of Serbia and that it should be Serbia's pride, not an independent state at all. Just for one piece of information, to see what's coming, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, on September 6th, the other day, at a football game in Hungary, she was pointed out and so to speak nationalist provocation from the kitchen of our northern neighbours. When Hungarians played a football match with Sweden, domestic fans pointed out the flag of Hungary, which outlines the borders of old Hungary, which is next to Romania's, Austria's, Slovakia's and Croatia's territories, procedures and Serbian territory. It's just the beginning. They've been promised this, Mr. Grouchy. They were promised 2008 more in the presidential election in the second round, and Bojan Pajtic promised them. They divided the restours in Vojvodina - Democrats, SVM and leaguers. (President: I ask you to focus on the agenda. ) Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, this is exclusively related to this amendment. (President: It's not tied. I interpret their amendment like this. The map of the great Hungary, thus becoming more and more present in the Hungarian public, has in its composition the entire territory of the Vojvodina. This document, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, is an official document, as well as Zemun and Novi Belgrade. (President: Absolutely stick to the subject, do not stick to the subject. I beg you, indeed, to return to the subject. I'll be back, please listen to me. This is an official document. (President: I ask you to return to the topic. ) I wonder if this sick Euro-enthusiasm, and we had the chance to hear from Mrs Merkel the other day that Serbia will enter the EU in 2019, whether then Dorcool and Calemegdan will be part of Serbia which you will allegedly take to the EU if you continue such a policy, such a state policy. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you chose them as coalition partners and you have to suffer and bear responsibility now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59372	Mrs. Jerkov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59373	It's not a replica, but it's the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Madam President, the previous speaker has injured Article 107. He spoke of the Statute of the Separatist AP Vojvodina. No Autonomous province of Vojvodina in our country is separatist, nor has there ever been separatist tendencies in the AP Vojvodina. I think that's clear to everyone. I think that's what you should have reacted to, and the fact that the previous speaker of our amendment understands by interpreting the map of a great Hungary or something, I think it's so exceeded rhetoric and so deplaced that it doesn't deserve to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59374	I didn't react because it doesn't seem right for anyone from this position to run a political school in the final year of our term of office. That's why I didn't react. If you are not satisfied, if you consider the Rules of Procedure injured, are you asking the Assembly to plead in the voting day? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No. ). Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59375	It is the same principle, as in the previous amendment. So, what was financed by the AP Vojvodina should be owned by it and it has management rights over that part of the infrastructure, and not just by the user, as the law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59376	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59377	I think this article 7 gives us room to look back in the same tone, that is, in the same context as so far there has been controversy and debate. At first, I will only comment that this amendment required that at least safety in the context of the management of the railway infrastructure be not released from the hands of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. from a state or public enterprise, or in order for the legal form of the company, but in the state property, it was quite the same. Of course, those who have rejected this amendment have brought this down to the story of traffic lights and traffic signals. We believe that safety on the railways is much more and much wider. If that weren't the case, the government wouldn't have defined itself to pass a law that regulates safety on rail traffic, but that's something we can accept in a context where you refuse to do this and we don't have to. However, what I would also like to comment on about this article of the 7th law is that, just now, Mrs. Comic has chaired, she said a statement here is dangerous. Mrs. Comic or fellow MPs, I apologize, for the SRS amendments we have spoken of and we speak of are no less dangerous. The time behind us has confirmed that the political ambitions of certain political parties are not a little naive. All your leniency and indolence and non-chalant attitudes as we have heard and so easily accepted, Serbia, the Serbian National Corps, all those living in this country cost a lot. Current time and everything that happens today in Serbia absolutely confirms it. Mr. Pastor, I'd like you to be my guest in southern Serbia. I wish that at least partially the railways in southern Serbia looked like yours in Vojvodina, there was nothing else to do, but let the railways in Vladic's Han, Kursumlia, Medvedji and Presevo be at least as partial as yours in the duke. That's all we from southern Serbia are looking for. One question - who should we address from Vlad's Han, Surdulice and Vranja, to tell us which lines we invested in, so that we should ask them to be ours? We will come here to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we will say – you know, we have invested in it or we will invest in it and it will be better. You cannot look for the quality of services on railway infrastructure and defend the arguments to search for property over railway infrastructure. It's two completely separate things. Here, one of these same ambitions is defended by three different things. We asked for property, we asked for property, we didn't ask for property, we didn't ask for property, we didn't ask for bad infrastructure, nothing was done, we did better, and they said, well, we invested, we created, it belongs to us. Who do we listen to? Do any of them know what they really want? A clear answer is what is wanted and what is sought. All of this is one continuity of the Statute of Vojvodina, transfer of jurisdiction, etc. It's lucky, Mr. Minister, that there's at least a little bit of reason in that government, so this isn't accepted for now. If I understand you correctly, things may change when the Public Property Act you're about to send here is passed, you just said that, so if this law is defined differently, you're going to change this law. Don't do that, such a law shouldn't go to the government, let alone the congregation. If such a law is in the government, the government will fall. If you have any national political awareness and responsibilities, you will bring down that government. At least once act as you do in government as you sometimes speak and speak or promote yourself in the congregation. Don't let them do that. They institutionally incapacitated this state to deal with everything you want us to deal with through this law. We don't know what we want to save as a national resource from state-owned infrastructure. We don't know that from road infrastructure, from rail infrastructure, electricity infrastructure. They don't know anything about it. This is a verse, chaos, so from law to law, the government, in accordance with the needs and interests of those who make up that government and most of it will be determined according to property. Now the Community Labour Act. That's where we're gonna have the same problem. They're going to be looking for -- the duchy sewerage, it's supposed to be ours. It's the duchy waters. It's supposed to be ours. Does it belong to us from southern Serbia or from the West or from the East? Here, my colleague is from Lucian, is she looking for something? We can't play with what's owned by the state. That's what I told you in the principle debate. You're here to defend, not give in. I'd be happy, indeed, Mr. Pastor, if you didn't vote for this bill, for this amendment and not to pass. That would be the most ideal solution. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said in the principle debate that we said in the SRS – the law is bad. Here, now I'm gonna say, let's make it your best law, but what's the point when it's inapplicable? It's inapplicable because they destroyed the institutions. This law is inapplicable because institutions are not ready to introduce market principles in this sector. You don't mind selling traffic infrastructure, but it's a problem for you to secure a game. Who are you going to bring here to provide and raise service quality? That's the problem. That's what institutions and a healthy state are looking for. But to sell public property and allow it and to give it to everyone, that's easy, and that's what a dollar or a dollar or a euro pulls away. That's why we can't understand what you're doing, and we don't want to accept what you're doing. Total nonsense. We asked for security at least, when it comes to rail infrastructure, to remain owned, or completely controlled by state-owned enterprises, at least if nothing else. It is not true that if the status of property changes, it will be easier to provide money. There is no institution under the republic that will facilitate or have greater credibility to provide money for investment in infrastructure. The most credible and legitimate for it is the state of Serbia, but the problem is what Mr Krasic said, the problem is the political profile and the value of those who manage what the state has entrusted them with doing. That's the problem. That should change. And the old law was good. We could have trains 100 miles an hour and with old law, we could have safe spring crossings, we could have quality traffic signals and with the previous law. We're not, because we're burdened with sick politics. Until we change politics, we don't turn 180 or 360 degrees, everything stays the same. Be careful now, we are trying to introduce a private sector in the management of railway infrastructure. Who can do that in Serbia today? The railway is something that initially requires huge investment and investment, and there is no pulsism in railways. You can't lie from one year to two voters, when it comes to railways, but you invest five or ten years to earn the next 10 years. Who in Serbia can do this job today? Imagine, Mr. Mrkonjic, only Miskovic and Beko, the tycoons, those who finance Vukic and Nikolic, as Wikiliks writes. These are people who are supposed to be dealing with the management of railway infrastructure today. Who's crazy to trust them? Imagine their relationship to actions of general interest. They don't care about the general interest. They subordinated Serbia to themselves, their own personal interest and their budgets. That's why this law is not good, and that's why the SRS is against him and the evil and sick political ambitions that could be projected through the law if you accept some of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59378	By name you mentioned Vice-President Gordan Komic and Mr Balint Pastor, so they now have the right to reply. Vice-President Gordana Comic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59379	I thank and hope that in a statement by the honourable MP Dragan Stevanovic, there is a misunderstanding, because I do not want to believe that he said, "It is necessary to prohibit such a way of thinking," he finds it justified. Unlike most stereotypes and prejudices that apply to both the SRS field programme and actions, I deeply believe that you belong to a political party who believes in the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of the market and please do not throw away. I will respond to MP Dragan Stevanovic with hope that there is a misunderstanding. I can't, and I don't want to believe that you're behind a sentence to ban someone's way of thinking, to ban some thinking and to prohibit, as a logical consequence, amendments or any part of the rule of law and the rule of law of institutions. All that is said here is a public word with the weight of someone who is a MP. A sentence easily spoken by one of your colleagues, that someone's way of thinking, thinking should be banned, I consider a sentence that is not appropriate. She's not dangerous, because it's impossible to ban people from any way of thinking. I want to believe that there is a misunderstanding between MP Dragan Stevanovic and me and that he agrees with me. All the other intensities of argument and all the desire to silence someone who defends the same values won't help. People will think what they want to think, and our common job is to create space for them in a decent way, in accordance with the rules of conduct, allowing everyone's opinion to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59380	First, MP Balint Pastor and then Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59381	Mr. Stevanović, I've been taught that the invitation should be accepted, so since you've publicly invited me to visit, I want to publicly say I accept the invitation. I will be very happy to come to southern Serbia, to look at the state of the railways. But the problem is, Mr. Stevanovic, what the railway infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina was once much more developed than it is today. That's the problem. I trust you to believe that Vlad's Han is even worse, but believe me, there was once a much, much better time in Vojvodina, and when it was much, much better, that's when the AP Vojvodina was run by the railway infrastructure. That's why we want this current situation to change. Believe me, our intentions are sincere. We want to contribute to improving rail infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I spoke two days ago, and I'm pretty sure you remember hearing that in Vojvodina, rail traffic started in 1869. Today we could hear from Miss Jerkov that 90 years ago, from Belgrade to Saturday, it was faster than today. I don't think that's normal. I don't think anyone's responsible for this. I'm sure the authorities of the Duke's AP are responsible. On the other hand, I am pleased to see that you have understood the essence of financial decentralisation and the justification for the existence of autonomous provinces in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest you start a campaign to form an AP in southern Serbia. I don't think Vladik's Han or Surdulica is going to secede from the Republic of Serbia, but you will see that you will have more money, you will see that you will live better. That's why you have SVM support for this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59382	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59383	I'll also use the replica, and if I can after the MP's time, if I don't get to answer everything, what I intend to say. Mr. Pastor, you cannot solve the problem of Vojvodina or the problem of Backo Petrovac or Backa Palanka or Zrenjanina in Vojvodina, such as the problem of Vladic's Han, Shop, Vranja, Bosilegrad and Presevo is not solved below, but solved in Belgrade. There's nothing wrong with that, and that's even good. If there were less of these tendencies and ambitions of locals, not to express myself as I would say, both regional pastures and bimbass or subbasins, I think Serbia would be healthier both as a national tissue and as a national economy or whatever you want. The call stays open. I'm glad you'll come and see. My ambition isn't to be sure where it's better with you than to prove that we all feel the same way. Let's change the ones that make us sick together. You chose them as coalition partners and you can't deny it to me. The problem is that today is your coalition partners, and with whom you try more rarely or manage to find a common language, because you understand who they are and what they are, and what they are handled. But those with whom you may be trying to find a happy future are just the other side of one of those same medals. Serbia must break up with a policy that you also believed made sense, that it is rational and that citizens of this country from Sudotica to Surdulica can be offered something better and something more certain. As for Mrs. Comic, I really don't think we understand anything wrong, either her or me. I think these amendments are just as dangerous as they think some spoken words for this assembly speaker, or any other place, are dangerous. My intention to forbid anyone, nor is it possible, nor can I do it. If someone in the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia introduced and insisted on freedom of speech, it was Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radical Party. But if someone was Mrs. Comic, don't take it as evil, let me say, was a symbol of the ban on speech, whether you will or not, it was you. I'll remind you, you threw out an entire Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group just because we couldn't say what you didn't like. Whether you were the initiator of it or Boris Tadic, and you did it all, however, there is no difference. So, as you understand me, it's your problem again. As far as we're concerned, it's much more dangerous what goes through the papers and what individuals suggest, because it's the opposite of the Constitution and the political and economic interests of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe we shouldn't argue about that. If you, Mrs. Comic, do not know if he can hear me, you stand for everything I stand for, I deeply believe that you will only remain in the Democratic Party until the next election. It is obviously no place for you, for the Democratic Party is someone who has provided that everything you and I advocate to reason on - and justice, and principles, and justice, and freedom, and tolerance, etc. There is no such thing in Serbia, and the Democratic Party is in power. You definitely don't belong there as a supporter of all that, because they're not able to provide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59384	MP Srdjan Milivojevic, as amended. Excuse me, replica. First the replica of Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59385	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for me, MP Dragan Stevanovic and I do not understand each other deeply. That depth of incomprehension, I want to believe it's out of his obligation to mix things up that are not to interfere with. Equalizing the will and desire to break every rule and will and the desire to believe that only one can be right, and that everything else can be annulled, a sentence should prohibit someone's opinion and someone's thinking, is impossible. I am truly sorry, but I have a complete understanding of the response of MP Dragan Stevanovic and that is the value of parliament. I have an understanding of what you have to say, and I know you don't believe that parliamentaryism, swearing, lying, insulting, aggression, banging about furniture. I completely want to believe and I know that you do not think that parliamentism is an organised violation of every rule and every order, because it is thus estimated that the political party's strategy is successful. Parliamentaryism is respect for rules and order common. Parliamentaryism is my will, whoever I may be, and the desire to say the free word. In accordance with the rules, my willingness to listen to someone who speaks differently from me and the willingness of another to hear what I say differently. The will to say what he wills means the obligation to listen to what he wills. Breaking rules promoted by parliamentarians is not good for parliamentarians, is not good for political parties. The worst of all is not good for the institution. The rules are good. (President: Time. To finish with a common sentence, which I believe will understand in southern Serbia, in the beautiful area where you live, I am from Vojvodina and I love order. Me and when I'm alone, I get in line. I know it's the same in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59386	Time, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Stevanović, we're done with a circle of replicas. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59387	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see no fear and need for fear of any amendment that my colleagues from Vojvodina have submitted. I think Miss Alexandra Jerkov explained this amendment very well. In the opening statement, speaking of the railway law, I said that the first railway on Serbia's territory was made right in Vojvodina, however, made by the Austro-Hungarian Empire. When we talked about it, in the opening statement on the Law on Railways, I didn't notice that there was any need for such a lack of understanding of any initiative coming from both SVM, my good friends, and LSV, and any other MP from Vojvodina. I answered precisely because I was often in Vojvodina and often traveled by train through Vojvodina. I answered because of the mention of Bucky Palanca and Baky Petrovac, and next to me is my friend from Backo Petrovec. I think that when we speak at all about what is in this country, and Vojvodina, and KIM are part of and inalienable parts of the Republic of Serbia. No one will load anything on his back, so when he loads it on his back, he takes something from both Vojvodina and Serbia. That fear of yours is inexplicable. When you spoke of some other arguments concerning this amendment, you were certainly deeply mistaken. That's what Mrs. Komic told you about. That's what the voters in the election told you about. I'll tell you about it. Only, as my colleague warns me, will she repeat you in the election. That when they repeat you in the election, maybe it'll be a much stronger argument than my words. Then be angry with yourself, not the people. For he that enters the stream shall be angry with himself, and not with the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59388	By amendment, Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59389	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'd like to discuss these issues that are on the agenda today. The SRS are getting it. ) I would like to ask you for some attention and if you can talk about this subject that is on the agenda. All those who wish and who have different opinions should choose and give their opinion. I am pleased today that New Serbia is improving the law if possible. We had 11 amendments that were adopted. Eleven amendments to this law have been passed, on our proposal, because we wanted to get as much involved in this job as possible and get as much law as possible, so that this law can be applied as possible. Not everything can be ideal, but I would like to talk about one topic that is very interesting and that is very often driven in Serbia. It's a question of railways. The railway is one system that is the barometer of the state of Serbian economy. If the economy works, if the economy works, if the cars are full, if there is to drive and the railway stands better, makes better money, less need subsidies by the state, etc. If it's going to be exported, the railway is in a better situation, if the situation in the economy is bad, if there's nothing to drive, if the companies don't work, if there's no transport, if the industrial track in the factory has healed in the weeds and they haven't started for years, then the problem is also in the railways. You can't walk empty cars and locomotives to drive, you can't use railways now and you can have funds for any cover in the investment if certain railway parts aren't in the exploitation at all. I am sorry that the state of the railways in Serbia is extremely difficult. Here, we've heard, in southern Serbia there's a big problem, as well as in Vojvodina. Many railways have grown into weeds and have not been used for years. I can tell by listening to my countryman Milivojevic's discussion that one of the key railways connects eastern Serbia from Nis through Stalac, which was the backbone, one railway hub, with the Belgrade-Bar railway line, does not work. The main hub from Stalac towards Bar, according to Požega, is not operational. The infrastructure failed and traffic was halted. There's no money, it's very expensive to invest this time in the railroad. There were long sanctions, there were problems and a railway infrastructure was damaged. You know the speeds of trains were 10 km an hour, and the carriages used if they were going 10 km per hour? So one big problem in the country is the railroad, which has to be solved, it has to be invested, but primarily the economy has to work. Gentlemen, the largest investment in Serbia's history was building a Belgrade-Bar railway and a link between Serbia and Serbia's economy and those of old Yugoslavia with sea routes across the port of Bar. That railroad doesn't have the exploitation it's supposed to be now. Why? They don't run factories. How many exporters were only Magnochrom, Valyanica, Viskoza, so I don't list the great giants who worked, "Serbian", "Buda", etc.? Now these companies aren't working. The "rail" from Belgrade was an extremely large railway user. It's gone today and it's a big problem. So, the situation in the economy is pictured on the Railways and you can't make a move in the Railways right now if you have a catastrophic state of business and you have nothing to drive. So this is where it has to be invested. Of course, the EU is interested in corridors. They are interested in corridors through Serbia. They're not interested in our local traffic. That's why this law wanted local railway infrastructure to be given to the local. If the locale is interested in a certain railway, to go Shinobus, to use it, to need it in municipalities, they can get it, use it, invest it, and, of course, the state will help as much as it can. But if the place has no interest, and the state has no interest, then the trains will stop. We currently have 50 cars in Serbia. It's a catastrophic condition. Currently, the correct wagons are 50, which can be used. You know how much to invest? Do you know that, for example, in 2003, it was cut up in one year 2000 cars because they failed, there was no means to maintain, cut and sell a kilo. Two thousand wagons were thrown out by Serbia's economy because it didn't use them, they failed and sold into old iron by a kilo. How to nag? The Gosa was full of work, Smeder, the King, etc., and now there's no need, no business. These are two things that should be observed connected and therefore I say – the state can make extraordinary efforts to obtain favourable loans. Today, favourable loans are given to the state, but it is necessary to invest in railway infrastructure and work on it. We need to expand the tunnels, invest for combined transport to Bar. You can't be aware of how much it's invested in the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railroad, to expand the tunnels, I know it well, and that those 18 bridges are being built again, because they didn't meet European criteria. It was a huge investment. That's why there's trouble here. This is not for any political bickering, this is the problem of the state, and here every political option that comes to power tomorrow, or is now in power, or has been in power, will have this problem, or has had this problem. This without a state with its institutions can't be solved just like that. This is a big problem, because the problem is abandoned. This problem is abandoned because we've had sanctions for a long time and no one's been paying attention to the railroad, to the state of the railroad. It has not been invested in the Railways for 20 years, and it now takes much to be invested to achieve it. We visited a country the other day and drove a 431-mile-an-hour train, but how? The state has invested in the railways and has a speed of 431 kilometers. You can see how it works. If we had those speeds and tracks, no one would use cars, everyone would use the railroad. How much does it take to achieve that? Therefore, I repeat, there is a problem everywhere in the railways, in every part of the country, and in Sombor, and in Subotica, in southern Serbia, everywhere, everywhere. No one from Novi Sad is going to travel so take the railroad, better by the rate, you'll get there sooner. Why? Because you need to invest. Belgrade as the capital does not solve the railway problem. Whoever comes out of everything, I know when I was a minister, it's baptized that in the 21st century we're going around the track with dangerous flammable and explosive materials around Calemegdan and that we've blocked the entire Sava, that we can't make a bypass around Belgrade and when we say that materials that can destroy 100 or 200 thousand people pass through the heart of Belgrade. They cross, they say – people, it's not normal. Everyone wants to give credit, to be a priority to make it, to nail the Sava, which is the exit of Belgrade, around the railway, I think a hundred years is the railroad in exploitation and we're using it. Imagine you walk the nitroglycerin through the heart of Belgrade, a tanker, ammonia, etc. There's no money to do that. So I would ask you, the resolution minister, when budgets are being made, to intervene and to convince others that we will easily sow trees, limes, groom parks, paint facades, but this is an important issue for Serbia, important for Belgrade, to make a bypass around Belgrade, railways, to get dangerous materials out of Belgrade's heart. Gentlemen, through this law, it was wanted to be a matter of railway property. The railway owns about 14-15% of the property of the Republic of Serbia, the land. Someone once prescribed half of the crab to the railroad. Does the whole of Rakovica now have to stand, not develop, because it's railway land, or Karaburma, Topcider, etc.? What's the problem? How does that land get back into operation? We hold a 20-year railway station in the heart of Belgrade, with 86 ha of the country, the best location in Belgrade. We cannot make a dig because the city of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia cannot agree on whose jurisdiction they are over the dig. Why? I know that problem well. The city of Belgrade is demanding that all the infrastructures to be made at the dig be rebursed, and it is completed during the bang. Branka Pesic. Now they're asking by law to pay them all back by square, and the investor who comes in says, "How do I pay you the trafo station, if it's already installed, the sewerage is built in, everything is built in?" If an agreement were to be found, it would quickly be resolved and we in the heart of Belgrade, at the current railway station, would have 86 ha of the best location, because investors would come, invest billions and employ more than 100,000 people in Belgrade, at that location. These are the questions that we all need to be agreed on to resolve. I would ask certain structures in this country to raise this issue and say, "People, we have to solve this issue, we can't be mayor of Belgrade, no one can be so stubborn and that one question, which was raised 20 years ago, is unresolved because someone wants to sew in that story. The state has an interest in resolving this issue. That's why I wanted to, through these amendments and through all of this, shape this law, speed up some processes, complete some processes, and solve them, and not now argue whether the track is better there or here. It's not good anywhere. It's bad everywhere, it's gone everywhere. This little we have remounted Belgrade – Bar, up to Valjevo, that's good, this at Shida is good, the approaches to Belgrade are well-mounted and this part that has been done, all the honours, but it needs a lot more money to finish it. I wanted to make our contribution to this problem, to better address it, to support those who need to solve this problem and to remove those who are constantly putting the problem of brake and rail into some corners and margins and say that the railway for Serbia is not important. The railway is the engine of one country's development, the engine of machine building development. The railroad runs an entire metal complex, and that's why the railroad needs to have subsidies from the state. If there's no rail movement, the entire engine complex in one state stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59390	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59391	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Transport and Relations, tabled an amendment to Article 9. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59392	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on railways is more pictured, and especially in the debate, in principle, more depicts the state of the government, which in our opinion is incompetent and very bad, than it is intended to improve rail traffic, but recently we have been able to see where the railway infrastructure is located. Our intervention regarding Article 9, that's one exception. Namely, on the basis of Article 7. Proposal for a law, the railway structure is good in general use in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Railway infrastructure, it's an activity of general interest and managed by a business company, but Article 9 of this law says that the right to use and operate operations at the part of the railway infrastructure, for which the company has no economic interest, is meant by a public enterprise, has no economic interest, can be given to a local self-government unit. They are given to the local self-government unit on the basis of the requirements of local self-government, and a concrete decision is taken by a public undertaking operating the railway infrastructure. We suggested that instead of putting a dot, it should be stuck and added, "except for a system guaranteeing traffic safety." So, this exception can exist, it can be allowed if only the local administration has an interest in mastering certain parts of the railway infrastructure, and in Article 4 on which we also had several interventions by counterparts Munjic and Nikola Savic, to formulate more precisely what is in addition to what the legislator predicted to make up the railway infrastructure, to accept these suggestions as well. On that basis, we believe it can be given to use, but only to use local self-government. On the occasion of not accepting this amendment, the government has given some explanation that is not acceptable to us, it is said that the security segment cannot be singled out and treated in particular. Well, that's exactly why we wanted to, what it's worth, and if someone is seriously thinking about high-speed railways and trains in Serbia that will go 260 km an hour or more, they need to take care of people's safety first. So, the safety of people for us from the SRS, actually for every man should be first, but it's not accepted. Today, we have had the opportunity to hear many things about the unpreparedness of the railway to be one of the momentums of the development of society in general, or industry in Serbia in the coming period. This could be so if the government were to be responsible, and if in the right and good way that every businessman would think about it, it would take care of the railways. One of my colleagues says there are about 16,000 cars missing from Vojvodina. Sixteen thousand cars if it's gone and the car isn't a needle, it's gotta be found and it's gonna have the full support of the SRS that those who cut cars, sold them, processed them, and that's basic. The Serbian railway now operates with 50 wagons, and this is very little for normal traffic in Serbia. I don't know if those 50 cars and they're colorful, it doesn't matter, mostly Serbia's railways aren't ready at this moment to boost the development, development of industry, development of the economy at all in Serbia. If he were here, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, I would ask him one question, because he, man, has information in time, and sometimes he gets it before the deadline. Are the documents that we can now read, which publish "Vikliks" at least to our border sent by rail or in some other way that can be seen in an untrustworthyly certain way what Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic were doing, as they sold not only the political party, which affirmed them but... (Chairman): People's MP, please stick to the agenda, please Article 107... . I'm just asking if it's a railway or some other traffic if it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59394	At a time when the session of parliamentary matters is scheduled then you can, now it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59395	I thank you, and I suppose the co-workers will pass it on to the minister and he will give the answer, he does so interactively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59396	Two minutes and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, members of the 9th Amendment are divided by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment in the same text was divided by the MPs Radica Jocic and together the MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandar Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Dobrislav Prelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59397	A colleague, Milorad Buha, submitted an amendment to Article 12 in order not to create a vacuum between the newly appointed infrastructure manager. We believe that you should have accepted this amendment because if the infrastructure manager to whom the license has been withdrawn, he is obliged to perform occasional tasks by the time the newly selected manager takes over those tasks. I think the amendment of my colleagues to the Buhe is better and more precise because it defines the obligation of the railway infrastructure manager to avoid the vacuum on the change of the railway infrastructure manager. The fact is, we have a lot of problems with the directorship, and that's mostly when we need to get all kinds of permits. It's just impossible and amazing what needs to be done to get a license. This slowness and this ineffectiveness is simply amazing, even where the works are concerned, works of vital importance. It simply can't be done until certain permits are obtained, and even in places where tracks, or tracks, are no more physical and do not exist, but simply can't work, whether it has to pass either water or gas, or phone, it's just amazing. That's why when we have certain works and the optical cable is cut, then one of the directorates that Telecom set up, so much to charge that the company can do five such jobs, get tenders, it can't cover just that part that has the obligation to pay for this directorate that Telecom founded. You won't believe that one cut of the optic cable that's been patched up in 12 hours, a warrant arrives for two and a half million dinars to be paid. Is this how the state treats the people who do the work, who get some works in the tender honestly, to recalibrate them in that way? This is another piece of evidence that the state is literally green. Please, if you have the influence to do something and see if you can be a little more flexible and a little bit more correct in order to simply work on the ground much faster and more efficiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59398	It was used two minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerović, Munir Poturak, Vitomir Mihalović and Bajram Šehovic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, fellow magistrate Goran Mihajlovic has submitted an amendment to the draft law on railways, and that is in Article 14(2) after saying "life environments" is stuck and words are added: "the level of noise and electrocution". The amendment submitted by the magistrate Goran Mihajlovic aims to apostrophe of noise and electrocution, in addition to environmental protection. In your explanation for not accepting this amendment, you stated that, under the terms of the environment, protection from noise, electric shock, pollution, vibrations, etc. etc. I have to admit, you're partly right, but as far as electricity is concerned, you're not. In the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the terms of activities affecting the environment, where noise and vibration and ionising radiation are found, then emissions of polluting matter, chemicals and harmful matter. So, there's no electricity or electrical shocks anywhere. You know what kind of danger lurks beneath the railway lines, especially at railway stations. How many people have died lately, how many children died crossing the line with a fishing rod? The passageways under the railway lines are actually minefields. In the EU countries you are calling on here, something so difficult is possible because the right protection measures are applied by the controllers. Here this provision in Article 14(2) will, in fact, be more than just a formal character, and when accidents occur, unfortunately, still the controller will not bear any responsibility. In order to reduce noise in many countries of Europe, rubber bases are being placed to reduce noise. When this will be done with us, it is up to you from the Ministry to inform us, and by the time we, Serbian citizens, suffer and noise, and we will be killed by electricity at the crossing points, even though this European law protects us 100 percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59400	It was used two minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to say a little bit about this amendment by my colleague Goran Mihajlovic because my colleague Radisa Ilic has, in one professional and quality way, elaborated all things about this. He has proved here that electrocution is a particular kind of danger that cannot possibly be under the environment. In this amendment, counterpart Mihajlovic wanted to point out that noise is also a special vision, especially when it comes to rail traffic, when trains go, and unfortunately go through populated places and create a lot of noise and a lot of vibrations for all of our citizens who live around these railways and where trains go. I believe the amendment should have been adopted since it appears from here that the argument is not at all correct, the government's argument. There's no Mr. Mrkonjic here, I'd like to ask him, I guess he knows what potential he has in his ministry, I guess there are all the professional people who have some fundamental knowledge and professional people who haven't bought a degree like some of them who are sitting in this hall here, and that's what Wikilix published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59402	A minute and 25 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The messenger of the people, Nikola Savic, came to the word, and the messenger of the people Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59403	Col. Marko Milenkovic submitted an amendment to article 14 of this law with the intention of deleting the said member of the law. I'm going to state here a few reasons, and there are more, which is why we're looking for an expropriation of this law. In fact, this member speaks of the inability to transport primarily by passenger, and in some cases both freight and where and under what conditions traffic, whether by passenger or by freight, may be cancelled. If we literally understand what the law says, then one conclusion can be reached, which is that passenger transport is absolutely unrestrained throughout Serbia's territory. It is known that in all European countries passenger transport is, more or less, inert, except perhaps on some exceptional lines, and with us, I don't think it's on either and then there's no passenger traffic. Is that the interest of the Serbian state? Of course not. As far as freight traffic is concerned, one conclusion can also be made that, in most of the lines on most of the railways, freight traffic is also not profitable, excluding the main vessel of our rail traffic, Corridor 10, the line leading from Sutotica to Nis and after Nis which is raking in two directions, towards Dimitrovgrad and Sofia, that is, down south, towards Vranje and Skopje. All the other directions I'm assuming are inert for freight traffic, and I've already talked about passenger traffic. Now I wonder, there's no minister, are we going to lift all those tracks? Of course not. Once upon a time, one of our recent ancestors was also how he set aside for the establishment and construction of these railways. Not only did he separate himself, many took part in the construction of these tracks themselves and now just so easily to give it up, I don't think it would be wise. Another aspect of the angle has asked counterpart Milenkovic to delete this member is the fact that every normal state takes care of both strategic aspects and strategic interests in its country. The strategic interest is that the country has railways in as much scope as possible and the interest is that all these tracks work. It happens that some railways aren't profitable, but we can't abandon some areas that are borderline border areas of our country, because it's a big eviction from these areas anyway. Regardless of the fact, we believe that the means to subsidise such a type of transport must be provided directly in the Republic of Serbia's budget so that at least that factor does not affect the further eviction of citizens. Of course, Mr. Milenkovic, as a man living in a spa, in a thermal district, cited an example of the Nis-Kurzumli railway. Trains have not been trafficked on that railway since 14 October 2010. There are a number of villages from Kurzumlia about 30km towards the administrative border with Kosovo, for which the railway is a strong house. Another kind of inrantibility is because traffic on some shares does not occur, not because there are not enough passengers or perhaps not enough goods, but simply does not occur because Serbia railways do not have enough cars and there are not enough locomotives. Then, as a reason, it is placed in the public of Serbia -- you know, that and that direction is inert. That's absolutely inadmissible. I mentioned something about a strategic direction, about strategic issues related to residents living in border areas that are connected to that railway, but the strategic interest is also other species. We all remember NATO aggression in 1999, when many railways, including one of them, were this railway we're talking about here towards Kursumlia and Kosovo, when there were important things in the tunnels, primarily fuel for hospitals, ambulances, emergency aids, etc., so that NATO's aggressor wouldn't bomb them. So you see that the railways, however, have one strategic interest, in addition to everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59404	Five minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59405	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the first position of this Article 15, whose erasure we suggest: "The infrastructure manager can suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of railway infrastructure, if public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive, with the consent of the Government." According to this, if it's freely interpreted, the railway can stop public transport anywhere where there's no profit. We suggested that this attitude be deleted. The government rejected it with a reason: "Amendment is being rejected for the reason it gives the infrastructure manager the opportunity to take measures that will make his business more profitable. "From the point of view of profit and from the point of view of the interest of the railways, this argument and this view of the government is fully justified. However, I believe that from the point of view of state and social interests, such a solution is not acceptable. The number of passengers cannot be justified to lift the passenger railway lines for Dimitrovgrad via Piroth or, as we have heard, to remove the railway line from Nis towards Kursumlia. If for nothing else, what is involved in the border areas towards Bulgaria and KIM is of exceptional strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the parties that now form the ruling coalition in Serbia have been in power since 1991. For the past 20 years, I've never heard of any of them announcing the suspension of certain railway lines. On the contrary, at the time of each election campaign, we listened to stories about building high-speed railways, trains going through Serbia at a speed of 100 and 150 kilometers per hour. Now I'm going to use a few minutes of SRS time to make a comparison of what we've actually done over the past 20 years. There is no claim that the current and current governments of Serbia are the only ones responsible for this situation. Anyway, it's good to see where we are. In Europe when a train is late on its way out, it's a miracle. In the past few years in Serbia, it is a wonder when the train leaves on time. I travel several times on the train to the Great Plan and believe me, when the train arrives on time, the passengers look forward. 30 years ago, it was known exactly when a train was leaving. I remember, at 21.45 p.m., trains to Cardelieu were regularly moving, current records, and it rarely happened to be a minute or two late. Today, no one at the Belgrade train station knows whether the train will leave or not until the train leaves. Until 20 years ago, we had a situation to cruise Serbian passenger compositions with 10 and more cars. Today, it's rare for you to see on the track some kind of railway composition that has more than two cars. If we continue this way, children in Serbia will not know what live railway compositions look like. I remind you, 127 years ago at the time of Milan Obrenovic, at the time of the first Serbian railways, passenger trains in Serbia were developing a speed of 36km per hour. Today we are in a situation where the trains in Serbia have an average speed of as much as 45.5km per hour. So, in 127 years, we've made an entire 9,500 meters. At the same time, I recall that trains in Japan, China, Italy, France and some European countries are developing up to 300km per hour, and in December of last year in a pilot ride between Shanghai and Beijing, a Chinese train developed a speed of 486km per hour. If we continue at this pace to develop what we have practiced in the last 127 years, in order to reach this European average it will only take 2,600 years, and this Chinese average exactly 3,900 years. Also, I remind citizens of Serbia and fellow MPs, 100 years ago, at a time of steam locomotives, the distance from Belgrade to Nis was overrun by trains in five hours and 45 minutes. Today, 100 years later, electric trains travel that same distance in six hours and 15 minutes. After six hours and 15 minutes they arrive in Nis, if they arrive at all. My colleague Jocic says, "If they go at all." On 2/3 of Serbian railways trains cannot develop a speed greater than 60km per hour, and we have dozens of kilometers of tracks in daily use, for the passenger trains, where trains go, that you do not believe, at a speed of 10km per hour. I again remind the parties that now make up the ruling majority, DS, G17, but also the SPS have promised us more times over the past 10, 15 years, fast tracks and trains that will go through Serbia 100 to 150km per hour. We also heard here, of the 9,000 passenger cars in use is 1/3. About 6,000 wagons along with the tracks have not been used for years and they rot on the side tracks. Since this congregation often deals with environmental laws, then not to miss an opportunity to say that it is the real environmental bombs. We're all here to witness that 10 years ago, these friends from the NATO Pact took our railways to KIM. Today, we have come to the conclusion that MPs in the Serbian Parliament are asking Serbia to give up the Vojvodina railways as well. None of the state officials officially condemns it. On the contrary, as we have heard, the government of the AP Vojvodina even supports the amendments submitted by the LSV, which, to put it mildly, represent real rail separatism. They say hypocritically -- we don't want to take everything for Vojvodina, this Corridor 10 we're going to give to Europe, and we're going to take the rest. Corridor 10 of Europe, we'll have everything else and Serbia nothing. There is no day to not listen to the statements of various ministers about Road Corridor 10. No one mentions the railway corridor. I really ask the question – for what? How important is this country's railway that I've listed, and it's seen last year or before last year when that protest was in Lapov, when dissatisfied workers blocked the railroad. They were there for weeks, and the state acted about as if they blocked not the road between Europe and Asia, but the road between two completely abandoned villages somewhere on the Old Mountain. We hear every day that you do not give KIM, that it is Serbia's strategic interest to invest in the economic development of areas that rely on the southern province, and for a year a passenger train has not been on the road from Nis to Kursumlia. For this reason, I believe that it is necessary to accept, in order not to have any more of these rail routes that have a strategic, social interest in Serbia and the Serbian population and that there are no other directions, I suggest that the Serbian Railways are not given this option provided for in Article 15 so that they can suspend public transport on all lines where there is no profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59406	Seven minutes and 50 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59407	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to ask the Madam Chairman, everything goes to the expense of an authorised representative for over two minutes. The minister is not present. Some things I'll conclude at the end of the debate. Now I'm just going to explain the amendment to Article 15. He's somewhere on a similar trail of the previous amendment. To remind you, it is Article 15, which gives the infrastructure manager the possibility in the first place to suspend public transport of passengers and goods due to incompetence, i.e. for economic reasons, with the consent of the Government. We suggested intervention in "with the consent of the government", he added, "local self-government". It may seem to us now that the government will represent the interests of the country, but unfortunately, having experience with both government and local self-government, I fear that the government and local self-government will not react equally on these occasions. Yesterday I mentioned, or the day before, when it was debated in principle, that I am missing at least two members and two sentences in this whole law. One of these sentences was that the state would guarantee that, even in cases where there are no economic reasons for maintaining some railway infrastructure, or some transport, and there are other reasons, and for example, they could be those that one part of the country must be linked to the rest, there must be some railway, some road, etc., otherwise everyone living there will move out if they have no communication with the larger centres, I even got the promise from Mr. Minister that the government would allegedly submit an amendment in that sense, however, it did not. Thus, this principled commitment that we will not look at anything but economic profit simply does not exist. From what it says here, and we'll see that the other attitude goes on, it was easy for me to imagine better ways to use rail infrastructure than to use trains on tracks, better in some cheap, economic sense. I think someone may have their own economic interest, which is normal and legitimate, but it's completely contrary to global state interests that can be such that the railway has to work. Furthermore, in another respect, it is even suggested to these future users of infrastructure, because, be careful what the view is: "The railway infrastructure or part of it, where public transport of passengers and goods can be stopped because of its inertness, can be converted into a manipulative rail or for other purposes and prescribe conditions and method of use". Approximately, it's even suggested to do so. We asked for that other attitude to be erased. If there's any railway infrastructure at all and there's no reason to oregane traffic on that track, if there's one at all, then in the end line this doesn't have to write, this is meant to be, that we're going to disarm the track, sell the tracks in the old iron, etc., etc. He can build a motel on the tracks, or whatever else he wants. I think it's completely pointless that it's in the Law of Railways. The bill promoter refused this amendment. I have to say, I find that strange. I said that the DSS could handle over 50 amendments, that we were just trying to fix everything we didn't like in this law, but that we only filed seven, and that's pointing to some of the most drastic things in the law. But, well, there was no good will for this amendment, nor for the other six amendments, to accept, let's say five, since one was indirectly accepted. But that's what I'm going to talk about at the conclusion of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59408	Three minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the People's Parliaments Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to Article 18. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just say a few words about this amendment to Mr. Zivanovic. In his amendment, Srboljub Zivanovic asked that some things be better specified in article 18. He suggested that if someone is already being leased, used, or in any other way to make a concession, then that all relevant information concerning the railways should be given and delivered, in what state of the railway, in what state, in what real state, how many kilometers a train can move on a section of the railway, how many railway crossings there are, in what condition the crossings and everything else are available. So I personally believe that this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59410	It was used one minute from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) There is a word from the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59411	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle debate and today, in the debate in particular, SRS MPs draw attention first of all to the citizens of Serbia that this law is also one of the very bad laws that essentially, apart from Article 1, 2, etc., and has no law form, is already just some kind of declarative statement by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the result of such a bad text of the law implies that the law will not be applicable, such as about the practice in this House's assembly, that we do such a, order, not us, MPs of the SRS, but those who vote for the laws by order. We in the SRS are taking every opportunity to draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the regime of Boris Tadic for Serbia's sake that it is high time to stop meeting EU requirements. On the contrary, we advocate that Serbia interrupts any communication regarding EU accession, among other things, and because for 11 years now, when I say I think of all citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, we suffer a terrible terror from DOS authorities in various forms, and all for some time in Europe as regards an SRS road that Serbia cannot possibly go. We pay particular attention to this, because those of you who advocate Serbia's entry into the EU and still won't accept that this is a devastating path for Serbia, you should know that from day to day the mood of Serbian citizens towards the EU is falling dramatically. Since you are in favour of some, again declarative, democratic principles, respect for the will of citizens, etc., although you have repeatedly shown that you are not interested in the will of citizens, you should take account and listen to what the people of the Republic of Serbia expect from their government. So, you, listening to the EU, destroyed everything that could be destroyed in Serbia -- and the banking system, the economy, the industry, the economy in general, agriculture, the education system, health care system. You've brought millions of people to the brink of existence, millions of people are out of work, and millions of pensioners can't survive with the pension they receive. There are more and more people next to the containers, fewer jobs, more and more cancellations from day to day, and it is all because of your attitude that Serbia should go that so-called European path. Neither did Angela Merkel, nor did she sober you with a clear view that there has been nothing since Serbia entered the European Union. Thank God there isn't, but it's really a problem that you're harmonising the laws with, as you say, the legislation of the European Union and it's all going to harm the citizens of Serbia. In this assembly of parliament, no law has been passed which, survey the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if you find ten people who will say they benefit, but don't set up polls, which will say they benefit from some law that this assembly called out to you, we will say, well done. You won't find it. You yourself know that there is no one in Serbia who is pleased with what you do. We're in the SRS when we're making amendments... Excuse me, before I say specifically about this amendment, what is your relationship to the laws you formally debate and which you vote on? You don't listen to what the opposition says. You don't listen to what the Serbian Radical Party says. That's why we say from this place -- respected citizens of Serbia, listen to what the Serbian Radical Party says, everything we've said for years, you may not have believed us until the end, here, now Wikiliks confirms, so I guess you believe now. So, what is your relationship to this law? Had it not been for counterpart Zoran Krasic to draw attention that we had received reports from the board where it did not say that the Law on Railways was being discussed, which is the subject, but the Law on Railway Traffic, you would not have noticed that mistake at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59412	People's MPs, now I ask you to start your organization to bring about the topic of the agenda and the amendment that is under review, so that you and I will remain within the frameworks of compliance with the rules to which we are bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, on the subject of the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59413	Article 20. The bill speaks of the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity. So he's talking about the railroad, and we got information from the board to discuss rail traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59414	People's MPs, I'm warning you now, because when I reminded you to talk about the agenda, I meant that you followed what's going on at the session and that you got, in accordance with Article 27, all the notices, so now I'm warning you about the subject of the agenda. Amendment to Article 20 It's a draft law on railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59415	Absolutely, but let's just have the right to think it's not true what you said was a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59416	People's MPs, now you're forcing me to apply the provisions of laws that I like far less than you do. But if you insist that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not only applicable to you, then I am obliged to remind you that they apply to you. Please don't force me to do this and get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59417	Requests for train route allocation shall be submitted for a year and no later than 10 months before the start of the new route schedule, according to the draft railway law. We say that this is a bad formulation and that these 10 months at the latest should be deleted, and that's what we've proposed with the amendment. Why? Because this formula is unclear. Because we don't know what it depends on and whether this deadline for the assignment is a year or 10 months from the start of the schedule. We in the SRS, otherwise, whenever we submit amendments, and this time it is, we make sure that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority draw attention to the fact that it is always bad, very bad when it is allowed to remain such a formulation, that it leaves the possibility of the law being applied in one way or another. We have the right to doubt who will apply this law and in general. The minister cannot be sure that anyone who is employed or employed in the Railways is going to do their job in accordance with the law, that they will not abuse what they are doing. If the law leaves him with that possibility, then, for God's sake, we need to worry about you. You know, in every public enterprise, state-owned institution, etc. You have one of the employees of the malpractice, those prone to crime and corruption, the unprofessional ones, and we have to protect ourselves and protect ourselves with the law. We also have those who buy a degree in college, and say they're functionally illiterate, that they don't know how to use more than four falls. That's what Wickelix said about Tomislav Nikolic. Maybe that's how it's gonna be in the railroad. If there are such, we must protect ourselves by law, therefore, against the malicious, those prone to crime and corruption, from those who lie, who cheat, who are forgers, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59418	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: Is the interruption denied, Goco? ( b) By breaking the Rules of Procedure, did the National Parliament refuse to interrupt from time to time? Of course it was rejected. I never count the time of the parliamentary group at a time that I must, by the will of the MPs, spend reminding myself of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which we must all respect. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinović and joint MPs Zoran Shami and Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59419	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, formulation in Article 23. The bill best shows to what extent this bill is imprecise and to what extent it opens up the possibility of different abuses. According to Article 23(1), the following is stated: the infrastructure manager and the famous formulation between two commas, as a rule assigns the train route once a year following the alignment of the requirements for the allocation of the train route in the procedure of drawing up the driving order, for the longest period of validity of the driving order. The SRS has proposed in the amendment that this formulation: "as a rule" as referred to in Article 23. The bill is deleted. It's simply because it makes this part of the law imprecise and really allows different kinds of abuses to occur in practice. The government has rejected our amendment. Otherwise, it's the same formulation when it comes to the amendment of counterpart Zoran Shami. Therefore, the argument is that the amendment is rejected because there is a possibility that, after the first distribution of the route, there will be a number of unused routes that can be offered during the period of validity of the timetable, allowing for better use of capacity and infrastructure, and thus greater revenues from infrastructure managers. Now the SRS is asking you -- if that's the case, why doesn't it say so in the bill? The bill says one thing, and in an explanation why our amendment is not accepted is something else entirely. If that was your intention, then you should have said that the routes are assigned once a year, except in those situations that are listed in the explanation why the amendment should not be accepted. So what it says in the bill and what it says in the explanation why our amendment is not accepted is simply two completely different things. When it comes to this syntagma – the infrastructure manager, often repeated in the Bill's proposal, it is interesting to return to Article 7. Proposal for a law, in Article 7, in paragraph 4. The draft law states that the activity referred to in Article 2, which is referred to as the management of railway infrastructure, can also be carried out by another company, another legal person or entrepreneur, under conditions and in a manner established by law. You say, gentlemen of the government, that this solution is in line with European standards. Here I'll show you on one case that that's not true. One of the countries that founded the European Economic Community, or later the EU, which today prevents many EU countries from bankrupting their credits, I think of SR Germany, in their not law, in their constitution, predicting a completely different solution. Now, I'm going to read to you, Mr. Government, what it says in Article 87 paragraph 3 of the basic law of SR Germany, that is, the Constitution of SR Germany. So pursuant to Article 87(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The basic law: "A business company, i.e. companies that carry out the work of building, maintaining and managing the rail roads, must be fully and majority owned by the federal state". Now the SRS asks you, gentlemen of the government – how in SR Germany, which together with France 1957 formed EEZ and which today saves its loans from the bankruptcy of a country such as Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Italy, who knows not all of Romania, Bulgaria, who knows all non-European countries, how in the one-state founding state of the EU, businesses operating the rail routes must be in full or majority ownership of the federal state, and in the Republic of Serbia do not have to? Tell me, how many of these European standards are there? How is it possible that one European standard applies to SR Germany and another European standard for the Republic of Serbia? This is only one in a series of evidence to which you are unprofessionally, not knowing the absolute EU system you are talking about these European standards. That is how it was, to remind the citizens of Serbia, because these from the government were worth nothing to say, and when we discussed amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. In Serbia, there must be a European standard that the MP is free, and that means that he can trade with his mandate, in Great Britain there can be whips, and nothing. In SR Germany, a business managed by the railway routes, meaning railways, must be owned or owned by the federal state, or SR Germany, in the Republic of Serbia. Does this mean that you know better European standards than the Germans and that our legislation is more in line with European standards than the legislation of the country that formed the EU and which is largely artificially maintained today? If there were no German loans, they would have bankrupted the countries in your country's paradise called the EU. So, the SRS expects answers to all these questions. The easiest thing to do is to come to the Assembly and read the reasoning of the law written by someone else and then say – you should adopt this law because it is in line with European standards. Now, answer me how is it possible that double standards exist in Europe, one standards for EU-based countries, and other standards for countries that want to join the EU? How is it possible that in the SR German Constitution, the basic law completely solves this issue differently from the solutions offered by the Serbian Government in the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59420	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59421	We have proposed an amendment in the same text, which is also not accepted. There is always a debate in detail on this important law. The debate in principle was concluded a few days ago, and we still, as people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, do not know what is the basic idea that led the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose this law. These few members are working on something that we've been presented as a basic idea. As we understand it, the idea is to introduce a competition in the rail transport sector, to separate infrastructure and transport management and to allow some new players in this game to help make railways better, to transport goods and passengers better. These provisions, unfortunately, completely invalidate everything the proposer has said in his explanation. The idea of basic law doesn't say it in the law. If it's a desire to destroy "Serb Railways", then that's a good thing to say, so we know what's waiting for us in the next few years. If the idea is not to let anyone participate in that market, then we need to be told again, so we know. If the law is respected, the "Serbian Railways" cannot do any of the other jobs, which means they should be abolished. The law says that one who manages railways cannot carry out transport, or one who handles transport cannot manage railways. This means that "Serbian Railways" and 17,000 workers can no longer exist, so there can be no "Vojvodina Railways". If we want there to be a "Serb Railways" company by sort of fictitiously transforming it into a holding company for several years, so that one part of it is engaged in transportation, and one part by transporting passengers, this member shows that it is not possible. The person managing the infrastructure shall assign the routes to the participants in the transport of goods and services under Article 23. Is there any company that's going to show up holding a company that has a transport company and a railway reflective company and ask that part of the company to give it to be a competitor of the same company? That doesn't even exist in Burkina Faso, although it is said here that Serbia is not Burkina Faso. Who will appear on the service market, according to Article 23, if the "Serb Railways" come and say – we want to be competitive with you, we have an idea for that route, so you give us that route, and don't give us your company. Where's that? Let's talk it over. On the other hand, what are you talking about, which country in Europe has a self-sustainable railway, can build rails, all infrastructure parts, and be profitable? As far as I know, there's no one. So it's government business, the state has to invest funds to make it work. That's what the most developed railways in Europe do. If we will invest only in the infrastructure company and if this company will build railways, if these railways will be state-owned, then the transport companies will be able to be profitable, but then it cannot be within "the railways of Serbia". It seems to me that the idea of this law is to keep everything the same, to make some new bodies, some new administration, some complex and complicated procedures, but to make no changes, that trains continue to travel at a speed of 40 and some km per hour, that these trains are not driven by anyone, and that we say that this is European law, and every year, "the railways of Serbia" will work less and less. I think it's the result of one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59422	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Rade Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59423	Just another sentence in favor of what I was saying about Article 23. The law. Article 24 provides for a procedure in case companies applying for a course come into conflict. Article 24 says conditions will be created, so they will discuss who gets which route. If we are creating a competition and market conditions, then there must be very strict rules, because they are discussing profit and they are not arguing over whether the train will be painted blue or green, but which of these two companies will make a better profit. The airline is the biggest battle around slots, about the time the company works. The main fight between the airline is that it will get a better time to fly between the two cities. These two companies will argue over profits, not who has a nicer CEO or who has a nicer building. If they're going to argue over profits, then there must be very strict conditions. If the conditions are this mild to give, no serious company will show up to compete, as it is clear that there is no guarantee that they will participate. Any serious company that comes with serious intentions must invest funds in Serbia, and in order to invest funds, it must have the guarantee that it will be returned with a pretty high probability. If there are formulas as undefined as there are in the 24th article of the law, then it is quite clear that you want nothing to change, that the railways in Serbia continue to be as they are and that the railway market is even worse than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59424	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59425	I'll be glad to add what he said to one sentence. This member as well as some other members and the rejected suggestion of well-intentioned MPs who have submitted amendments assures me, unfortunately, that this law too enters the order so-called. Kobajagi European laws. So we're trying to do something, which is going to look about how it works in Europe, and we're actually doing it so it can't work at all, because we're not going to work like in Europe, we're just going to satisfy the form, and we're going to keep going our way, as we've learned so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59426	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have accepted the amendment, since the Legislative has not been declared, the amendment is under review. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59427	Well, they took it in such a way as to calm the radicals, like, well, we accepted something of yours, etc. Since it's about what my predecessors have been saying, I need to distract you that Mr. Shami is not right at all. Radojko Obradovic is not right at all. It's the law, it's just the European standards coming out of it. These are all European standards. European standards in Serbia must not grow any grass. Please take care of yourself. You must finally understand one very important thing. Such pro-European laws confirm a people's saying – people grab at a gram of power and are able to give up a kilo of brains. We're talking about this for nothing. We're free to be supported by the railroad people. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're all talking for nothing. A gram of power in the hands of those who set fire to this building is stronger than the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, CIP, Railways, etc. There is no such approach in the EU at all to their standards. What's it worth to me to tell you? We have a problem with the lack of funds, the lack of political will and the wrong solutions at the top of all areas, and here is the question of the railway. Who's the director of this department? He's a little railroad lover. Rosic, right? He's a little railroad lover. He's a little railroad fan at the head. Our railroad has to be small. It cannot be a Serbian transit, but it will be in the rank of the Chargan Eight, a tourist attraction. Believe it or not, there are railways in those areas where Serbs once lived. This is the EU message represented by a certain group of people here. And since it's allowed here to be thought, Mrs. Comic, it's not forbidden. You know, in the degree of graduation that is characteristic of the spirit of the Serbian people and there is one category that should be banned from thinking, because what they mean is disaster for the state. (President: The People's Parliament is very insistent. On what? (President: On the application of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not just explaining to you what kind of graduations exist in the Serbian people. (President: I'd like to ask you about the agenda. ) Here's what's beautiful, beautiful, the most beautiful, so not to say what they say in Vranj tutka and then has European beauty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59428	People's MP, I have no doubt that you consider the amendment to the law that has been passed, and your amendment is nice. But still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59429	No, but I think by the power of argument, I've made this government trade a little bit. Let me explain one more thing. When it's written by the book. That doesn't mean anything. But when you say it by the book, it means there's something beyond the rules. It must be potent as a rule. And Radojko Obradovic didn't understand why it stands by the rule. This is according to the rules because of the synonyms. The couple spins where the burgion won't. It's a synonym, and you didn't understand. Not you, not Shami, not young Martinovic. So it's that degree of volunteerism - the steam spins where the burgion won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59430	On the 23rd amendment with the correction, MPs Zoran Shami and Radojko Obradovic together submitted. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) I apologize for Article 25. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59431	Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can't even say hello to the Minister this afternoon because he's not here. We have submitted an amendment to Article 25 which speaks of the possibility of a framework agreement between the infrastructure manager and the applicant. And it's like an idea okay. However, what is wrong are the following provisions. Look, I have to read to you, it's really, you know, I'm not a lawyer but it offends the elemental logic. Be careful what it says here: "A framework agreement does not contain a detailed route of the train but meets the legitimate and commercial needs of the applicant and is concluded, again famously, by the rule of five years. "Let's discuss this first, say something by the book, then actually say there are no rules. Since you wrote by the book for five years doesn't mean anything, it absolutely doesn't mean anything. And now you're proving it with your next attitude. In the following attitude, it says, be careful what it says: "In special cases, the infrastructure manager can agree to a shorter or longer period." Well, then, why did you limit him to five years? Each period of more than five years shall be monitored by the existence of commercial contracts, dedicated investments or risks. We are now going on: "a period of more than ten years is possible only in exceptional cases when long-term investment is large and the way investment is covered by contractual obligations". If I use some, let me say, imagine that I have some good friends and I'm gonna get a nice rent, I want to organize, I'm making a 99-year contract. Which, after four or five years of being some other government in the country, will be some new law, I don't care, I made and solved the problem for 99 years. What did we suggest? We suggested very correctly next. First, to delete this as a rule. That then this member, the attitude, which speaks of being shorter or longer can also be deleted because it is unnecessary. And to say the next position, an exceptional period may be longer than five but not more than ten years when it comes to long-term investment of a large scale, etc. It's a normal formulation of this member. So, it ends for five years, it's funny to make some framework agreement for six months, a year, etc. It's total nonsense. So for five years, it can be extremely ten years. It can't be more than ten. Now, you're refusing that amendment, but when independent of this amendment it's not the only example, it's not even the only example in the case of this law. You write pointless explanations, like you write to little kids. And the little kid he's asking to buy him a chocolate, you tell him, and he can't have chocolate from now on, my God, it's raining. Now, kid, what's going to adopt that reason because you cheated on him? You say, the amendment is rejected for a reason, which is Article 25. The bill allows for the framework and agreement to be concluded under certain conditions for a longer or shorter period than five years, and I am attacking it. First, it can't be shorter, and second, it can be extremely long, up to 10 years. You can't give this kind of explanation, I don't know, it's starting to be, you know, a ministry or a government to propose a bad law. He has the right and the congregation's majority that no matter how bad he is to accept it, he'll take it nicely. Do not reject the well-intentioned amendments, on the one hand, and yet spice up a completely pointless and illogical explanation. It's at least offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59432	The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. No one wants a word. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59433	Just for the sake of the public, I want to say something, in article 44, item 1 after the word "accident", words are added, elemental accidents and emergency events. We've come to an understanding, and it's okay. When we talk about these things, about accidents, I'd like to say that we're getting past one of the biggest problems we have right now, when it comes to our railroad. We were here in a situation to hear that Mr. Pastor said that the municipalities of Kanjiz, Subotica, Choca and Senta submitted a request for the revitalization of the railroad. I mean, they were able to apply, because there was no interest in investing in these municipalities, because there was no emergency choices. In the municipality of Odzaki, I have signed a protocol for the revitalization of the Bačka Topola railway – Sombor and Novi Sad. But nothing was done. Then, we didn't hear if there were any more municipalities in Vojvodina, Vrbas, Bačka Palanka, Ruma, Indji, Stara Pazova, Sremska Mitrovica, and Mr. Pastor was not allowed to mention these municipalities in Srem, after Chanak promised it to the Croats. So let's hear something more concrete, something more honest. On the Vrbas – Sombor track, we have 59 road crossings that are not marked, and only one is marked in Sivac. There are so many car accidents, we simply can't believe that Serbia's railways find no understanding that these crossings are marked and that temporary ramps are made, which, when the train passes, descend and somehow prevent all these accidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59434	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Mr. Ljubenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59435	Members of the SRS have made a full contribution to improving this law and, while we are already on the subject of a member who is referring to construction, reconstruction and modernisation, I would like to repeat this important question for the citizens of Leskovec who live in the part of the Grdelička ravine. It is a very important issue for the citizens of Leskovec, and it has long been a controversy, but the solution that has been in the interest of the citizens is not exactly in sight and I do not think that adequate treatment and engagement of government representatives and resolution ministries, who were present and on the ground, have given no interest in these resolutions. A ray of hope for the implementation of the Corridor 10 project through the Grdelička clisuru, he gave a meeting at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, where all representatives of local self-government were from mayors, president of the Assembly, all MPs, and at that meeting a ray of hope was provided and interest from the restoring ministry that the demands of the citizens of Leskovec would be addressed in an adequate manner. There is also a problem, when it comes to this part of Corridor 10 and the problem of the railway line and the possibility of modernisation. I think that with the proposal of the citizens of Predejan, we are just ahead of this ministry that has initiated this procedure for this law, for improvement, that, on this basis, one situation arises, that this particular problem of quality of rail traffic in the part of the Grdelička clisura is solved in an adequate way. The problem is that the request of the citizens of Leskovec, who also sent the City of Leskovec Assembly, to the representatives of the CIP, is where a project was built that showed citizens' justification and that the project is cheaper for 15m euros. However, from government representatives who were in contact with local self-government presidents, it was not to meet citizens' demands and to build the project itself, but to go to a different solution, where the construction of a tunnel is far longer, where it is more expensive for 15m euros and where they do not treat citizens with a requirement to be resolved in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59436	Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Radojko Obradovic. Mr. Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59437	The law states that the government will implement the Assembly on the implementation of the national programme after the completion of the implementation, after five years which is a completely pointless provision, because after five years neither will it be the same government nor the same Assembly that voted the national programme. Second, what kind of idea if after five years we find out that nothing, for example, has been done from the national programme. We suggested that the congregation be reported every year. So once a year, the government needs to go to the Assembly and say, "This program that the Assembly has brought, the national programme, we have done so much, and now we are assessing whether it is enough, whether it is small, whether it is much, whether the Government should be commended, or why it is not done, etc. We have proposed an amendment that says that the Government is obliged to submit to the National Assembly once a year a report on the implementation of the national programme. There's one thing. You have accepted a completely identical amendment from New Serbia's MPs, and this one has been rejected. In the voting day, of course, we all know how to vote, the ruling majority will be the amendment that has been accepted to vote, and for the amendment that has been refused to vote against. That's where it comes in, please the lawyers, one legal mess. If the Assembly voted on the same amendment twice, once in favour, and the other time against, the staff? This is not a grudge to lawmakers, this is something that I think must finally be in the Service Assembly to try, that when amendments are exactly the same and in terms of exactly the same, they can differ in one word, but when they are exactly the same, they must be presented to the MPs and there is no need to have two discussions then, and there is no need of course to vote twice. For example, when the amendments of Mr Martinovic and our amendment, where we ask for the rule to be deleted, but this is exactly the same in terms, the only difference is that the amendment of New Serbia MPs reads: "The government submits to the National Assembly once a year a report on the implementation of the national programme", there we have a point, and here it continues to read "rail infrastructure". Of course he's thinking the same thing, because it's a national programme for rail infrastructure. So, I spent a little time explaining that our professional services would have to be more creative to approach the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59438	Thank you. We'll have additional consultation from our lawyers, our professional services, but the situation is very life-threatening and I think we should analyze it. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Meho Omerović, Munir Poturak, Vitomir Mihajlović and Bajram Šehovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59439	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the ministry, respected MPs, it is good that the government has accepted this amendment because when we were thinking about the time needed today in Serbia in order to simply come up with some documentation that is necessary for any work, we concluded that the time offered from two months is simply an impossible mission. Even this time of four months can be questioned. It is, in fact, that if the railway is building, reconstructing or modernising and when it announces that it is doing so, other companies, other legal entities or entrepreneurs are also obliged to design projects and to agree with a larger project published by the railway. However, almost no project, even when it comes to natural persons, you today cannot do without asking for some consent. Consents are required from different entities and yet there is some legislative regulation that obliges them to do so for what time they are obliged to do so. Today, I gave the minister one file where exactly from his portfolio one organ should have given an answer within a month, and he didn't do it in December 2010. So this time of 120 days today is considered a minimum of time, even in an orderly state, to ensure everything necessary and then access to a coordinated function, regardless of whether it's construction, reconstruction or modernisation. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59440	Thank you. Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. It's a draft law on railways. Article 47 refers to the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of railway infrastructure, i.e. the obligation of the infrastructure manager to publish, before the start of works on the railway infrastructure, a period of at least 60 days in order to ensure that the company or undertaking concerned about railway facilities is able to coordinate their work with the upcoming work by the manager. If you read carefully the third position of this member, you will see that the controller can set unrealistic deadlines for a company or an entrepreneur that cannot be fulfilled. Thus, the controller frees himself of responsibility for the possible damage caused by, say, pipelines, power lines, telephone and air lines. If a company fails to fit a one-sided deadline, the damage will be great. The amendment offered by the SRS offers a more flexible solution which provides for a manager’s agreement with a company, i.e. an entrepreneur, on the deadline for fulfilling the obligation of a company. All other matters within the proposed legislative solution referred to in Article 1 which are said to be at least 60 days before the beginning of the work. The adoption of this amendment would create conditions for correctness in the relations between these businesses in Serbia's railways. How much time left for the parliamentary group, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59442	You've got three minutes left. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59443	How much time left for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59444	You've got three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49. The Law on Railways, more specifically at the position of the 4th of this law, with the intention of erasing this position. In fact, this attitude suggests that the distance between the two crossings of the railway infrastructure cannot be less than 2,000 metres. The government did not accept this amendment, but one interesting thing I want to say in front of the MPs – this time I agree with the government's argument. It would be ideal if this distance between two crossings of railway infrastructure was not 2,000 meters but 10,000 meters, but unfortunately reality and practice speak differently. We'll have a situation to break the law. He's being violated by his own passing. We all know very well that the railroad often passes through the populated parts of our cities. That's the situation we have in the town of Nis, the town where I come from, where the railroad passes through a very densely populated part of the city and cuts the city of Nis literally into two parts. There's a situation where at some distance of two kilometers, we cross eight crosses that says that instead of a cross-section, as the law suggests, we have a full eight. I've led the city of Nis here, but it's a similar situation in other cities. The solution to this problem where it would all agree with the law would be to quickly move the circle, but we are all aware that in this situation where the state is and at this rate that reconstruction and the construction of the circle is carried out, it is simply not possible. When I mentioned the town of Nis, I can say that even the incompetent local self-government in the city of Nis is trying to do something on this plan, but it's not in their jurisdiction, in their jurisdiction. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is not present, but I'd like to ask how far this railroad has been moved. I know that's been going on for decades. Nothing has been done in particular. Mr. Krasic as Nislija reminds me it will be ahead of the campaign. I remember, Mr. Krasic, a lot of campaigns, when it was tried to do something, it might be something like this, but I don't think Nishlia's going to make any use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59446	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Zoran Krasic. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59447	I'll finish it in a minute. The member refers to maintenance. Permanent surveillance also contains occasional checks, so I find it odd that you refused what Mr. Duvnjak suggested, which is a functional examination. The word "functional" in Serbia is especially important when reading "Vikliks". They found that Tomislav Nikolic bought a diploma, that he is functionally illiterate and that he knows four out of seven downfalls. Please keep in mind, the word "functional" has become very important in the European agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59448	The 5rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59449	I'll be short of the time that I have left of my proposed authority to say just one thing about this amendment to my colleague, Momir Markovic. He submitted this amendment with the idea that certain things should be better defined in the law itself. In fact, we often have a situation on the track, on that rail infrastructure itself, we don't need to change, let's say, this is about signalling devices, complete signal-safe devices. It is sometimes possible to supplement these devices with the relevant elements, and then they will perform the function given to them, or for which they are intended. This primarily refers to situations where, for example, certain elements or complete devices are replaced by the same devices, the same purposes, but quite other characteristics. You know that today's technique is progressing and things are getting better very quickly, so it's doable too. So I'm surprised the government didn't accept this amendment. I think she should have done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59450	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Mr. Plužarević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is bad, all the participants in the debate pointed out and explained in detail, as my colleague Zoran Krasic did. The law is like a declaration aimed at forming a directorate, whose, and what, no one knows. We're probably onto yours. If you're a little forward, the agency and other administrations that are just ballast and the cost of our common budget, let's call it an ally. You're talking about European railways. You know it's just imagination and illusion. The speed of repair of the railway depends on the speed of recovery of our country, and you have destroyed the country to the extent that it cannot be measured by normal measures. When the economic situation in Serbia begins to improve, then the railway can slowly be restored, and that will be the rarity in Europe, the oldest railways to be used by Europeans as a tourist attraction. Today in Serbia, the best railway route in Mokroj Gora, managed by the Serbian Railways, and what the duchy Hungarians of Istvan Pastor and the League of Nenad Canka are looking for, is only a desire covered by blackmail. But we believe that the minister will defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and thus answer that question. The minister stands for China and Russia, and we will support that pledge. This amendment to Article 59 of the proposed law wants to fix the rail infrastructure protection system, and our suggestion would finally be in Article 59(1), which reads as follows: "In the infrastructure belt, any disposal of waste, garbage, as well as wastewater spillage, water flow disruption, endangerment of safety telecommunications and energy installations is prohibited." We know that you have adopted certain members and amendments by system – loves, does not like. The amendments won't fix such a bad bill after adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59452	The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Section 59 of Section 2. Proposal for a Law on railway amendments. I don't understand why Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and his associates didn't accept this. Article 2 says well – no trees should be planted, signs should be placed and words added: "damage the protective fence". My explanation is pretty clear. It says - damage to the protective fence lies in the high voltage zone, leading to huge dangers. Citizens of Serbia should know that because of the electrification lines there are high voltages and when you enter a high voltage zone of 25,000 volts, then nothing will help damaged protective fences. Unfortunately, we had an accident this year, where, by playing on such an electric train, he touched that very high voltage zone or that 25,000 volt wire and there was an accident. That's why I just can't believe the minister, along with his associates, didn't accept this amendment of mine. The objective of this amendment is to improve the text of this law. I think you have more time and you can modify your decision and accept this amendment to Article 59(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59454	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Mr. Maric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59455	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 72 of Article 1 speaks about the order of driving on the railway – the order of driving is brought and is valid for the period established in that order of driving. Our basic objection to this view is that there is no date of entry into force of the driving order and no period of validity. That is why we have submitted an amendment saying – the driving order is brought once a year and is valid from 1 December of the current year until 30 November of the following year. The government rejected the amendment with the following explanation: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the order of driving changes the second Saturday of December throughout the year." I appreciate this argument, but the essence of my disagreement with the Government's proposal, the essence of this amendment is not the date of the adoption of the railway order. Let it be this second Saturday in December, it's not a dispute. The essence of my proposal is that one who manages the railways is obliged to bring order of driving at a certain time and to know for which time period that order of driving will apply, i.e. that the order of driving is only taken once a year. Speaking of driving order, a matter of elementary jurisdiction, a matter of elementary business, a matter of minimum respect for passengers, according to citizens, is that the railway order is respected, to make a realistic order of driving and that it is respected. If the train from Belgrade is due to leave for Nis at 10.00 hours, let him leave at 10.00 hours. If it takes him six hours to get to Nis, have him drive to Nis at 4:00 a.m. in a row. It's no shame to write, it's reality. It is a shame to write that the train from Belgrade to Nis should arrive at 15.00 hours, and that in a year it will never reach 15.00 hours, but every time it is late.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59456	The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 82nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor together submitted to Article 85 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )........................................................................................................................ National MP Zoran Shami, Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 91a be added after article 91a. Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59457	I thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the next one. In a chapter that reads as follows: "The Railways Directorate", there is only one member of the 91st working on the status of the Directorate and in which it literally writes the following -- the Railways Directorate, in the following text of the Directorate, as a special organisation performs the tasks of the state administration in the area of the railway established by this law, as well as a law governing safety and interoperability in railway transport. The Directorate's headquarters is in Belgrade. The Directorate has legal status. Other members who continue to follow in 92, 93, 94, etc. are involved in the affairs of the Directorate. But no member says the Directorate is organized. Who runs it, and how does that face get picked? We've proposed a new member, I'll read it. A new member who reads: "The director of the Directorate is the director of the Directorate. The director is elected by the government for a four-year period based on a public competition. The candidates for the director must have high professional training of the technical profession and at least five years of rail work experience." The bill promoter refused the amendment. He refused the amendment, be careful with what explanation. It says - the amendment is rejected for the reason that its contents are contrary to the law governing the state administration. I don't see what's wrong with the law. The fact that I've asked the manager to have a high level of technical expertise, I guess that's something that's normal. With all due respect to art historians and psychologists, I personally don't think they're people who have the knowledge to handle the Railway Directorate. It is natural for it to be a person with a high professional training of the technical profession and it is natural to have some work experience in the railways. I still don't see what's out there contrary to the law, because you said it was a special organization. Apparently, an organization that has, justifiably, great powers in the organization and which must work well and professionally. But it seems to me that this is about something else. It's actually a story about us making European law, which is a fog for Europe and little children. In fact, it's a law with an idea in its head that nothing changes. My God, since we know how this directorship is supposed to work and who's going to be the director, who's going to run a railway company, etc., then there's no need to define it by law. That convinces us even more, and in the end, I'm going to round up this debate, that the law is actually so bad because no one has any intention of seriously applying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59458	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59459	Thank you. If I could draw the essence from the draft law on railways, it could be said that this bill gives greater authority to the Railways Directorate. What she will be able to do in the next period, and under the law, it is certainly the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for safe and uninterrupted operation, i.e. the operation of rail traffic. Then, to obtain various powers to adopt sublaws for the adoption of regulations of importance for the safety of rail transport, which are passed under the safety laws of rail transport, etc. It was our wish that this article was complemented in this sense by a new point, which reads – Railway Directorate, among other things, lays down the necessary quality of newly installed devices on railway infrastructure, given what I think is, and perhaps I am wrong, the essence of the bill. It is simply a pointless justification for the refusal of amendments, since it is reportedly rejected for the reasons why the railways Directorate's tasks concerning the monitoring and application of the rules in the area of safety of rail transport will be laid down by a law governing the safety of rail traffic. It doesn't make any sense, just like I think there's not one good wish for it to be arranged in an even better way. You'll see in the next amendment why that is. Hence, it should not be surprising that even up to three billion dinars per year are accidentally spent on other things, precisely because there is no proper regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59460	Thank you. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 92. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59461	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 91 and 92. The draft law on railways speaks of the status and business of the Railway Directorate. In Article 92. The proposal for a law of Article 3(1) states that the Railway Directorate shall adopt sublegal acts. In view of the fact that general legal acts, the Constitution, laws and other general legal acts are included in the law, since the legislator stated by the very text of the bill that the Railways Directorate has a special organisation that performs the affairs of the state administration, and the Constitution and Article 195 says that another general legal act can be passed by an organisation that has public authority. We assume that the Railways Directorate, as a special organization, has public authority to bring in sublegal acts. In view of this, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS parliamentary group, which I had provided for in Article 92(3) to add point 4 to the report – the Railway Directorate follows the application of the rules and adopts amendments to those rules which have not been confirmed in practice. What's the reason for that? There is an example that, in the existing positive regulation, even with this proposal of the Law on Railways, no stop sign is required at the railway crossings. Also, Andrija's cross is not intended as a mandatory sign at the crossing points. Given that the Directorate has the power to adopt general legal acts, instructions, regulations that would apply to the entire territory of Serbia, the Directorate could adopt a general legal act that would introduce a stop sign and Andrija's cross at railway crossings, which would be very useful for the safety of rail traffic. Do I have more time? (President: You can have another minute and that's it.) ) The government rejected the amendment I submitted before the SRS parliamentary group and stated that these issues would be resolved by a special law on traffic security, i.e. rail traffic. However, both Articles 91 and 92. The bill speaks of the safety of rail traffic, but it takes any legal act for the Chinese to set up a 486km train speed in December 2010, on the road between Beijing and Shanghai, or to plan to build railways and trains within two years that will traffic up to 1,000 km per hour. This proposal for a railway law, as well as a special law on safety of rail traffic, can always provide for some regulation, some norm, some provision that will further increase the safety of rail traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59462	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment to this bill submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. As you could see from this debate, all amendments are professionally and duly written, with one single goal – to improve the text of this law. You have seen that we have not submitted amendments relating to transitional, criminal and final provisions, because these are the amendments that are most easily written. We have not submitted such amendments but only professional and reasoned amendments that we have talked about here. I must also admit that the government has adopted a number of amendments to the SRS, but on the other hand, I can regret to say that it has been able to adopt at least as many amendments as it has adopted. That's why, and believe me, practice is going to show it very quickly, we're going to be able to re-change and supplement this law. Because, regardless of the fact that we are bringing an end to the debate today in particular under this law, however, because of some of the shortcomings that the MPs of the SRS spoke of above all, as well as the MPs of some other parliamentary groups, we will come very quickly to the opportunity to make changes and additions to this law. As regards this amendment itself to Article 94, I asked for a new point 9 to be added in this article, after point 8, which will clearly and in a precise way indicate that the Directorate has an obligation to keep records of all emergency events. In an explanation for the refusal of the amendment you said – it already leads. But it's not exactly like that. I think it's very important that at all times we need to know where, when and why some extraordinary events have arisen. Unfortunately, we have these events on a daily basis and I think the adoption of this amendment would make it easier and allow these events to be prevented in the future or their number to decrease, if it is not possible to prevent them, which, of course, is not possible. This would practically discuss details of the railway law regarding the SRS would be over. We're not going to support this bill because of all the things we talked about here today, in this debate, and even a few days ago, in the principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59464	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Shami, Radojko Obradovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 98th amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59465	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, something about the amendment itself. Article 98 speaks of the organisation of supervision of the implementation of this law. In the first position, it is foreseen that the supervision of the ministry, that the inspection supervision is carried out by the Ministry through the Republic Inspector, in paragraph 2, that is all fine, and then in paragraph 3, the following is provided for - that the Autonomous Region is entrusted with the conduct of inspection tasks over the application of this law, the sublegal acts adopted under this law, as well as the laws and regulations and general acts governing the safety and inter-operability of railway traffic under Article 1(1). We have given an amendment that is very simple – to delete Article 3. It is clear to me that the AP or, if you will, and local self-government can be left to various inspection jobs in various spheres – trade and I don't know what. It's all right. But if there is an area where absolute state control is necessary, which is very sensitive to possible, don't give God, accidents, etc., it's a railway. I understand the need of the ruling majority to secure votes, 126 votes, and I understand the blackmails it's exposed to, I understand all that, but there's some limit that can't be crossed. You can't make some solutions that are out of your mind and state interest. Simply, the inspection, when it comes to the safety of rail traffic, about the enforcement of regulations in rail traffic, which-what, it simply has to remain an absolute job of the state. It's not the Alai-beige straw railroad. It's not a tourist society. The railroad is a serious thing for every country. We heard here, not once, that there is no European railway that the state does not touch. The Germans don't touch their railroad for sentimental reasons, because it's important. Of course, this amendment has also been rejected. She hates me to read the explanation, besides, better not to read it, we'll get less upset. I'll go back to my grades now and the law's judgments. I'll remind you that on behalf of the DSS two days ago, and I have to admit that now I'm even more confident about what I said, that of all the laws that this ministry has filed with the Assembly, this is absolutely the worst. This is a law written to show how we adapt to Europe. To make things more tragic, we do not adapt to Europe and the rules of the game in Europe at all, but we are ruining our railways, because of course the only thing that matters to European railways is that the infrastructure on Corridor 10 works and they are not interested in anything else. They're not interested in other local infrastructures, on the one hand, whether we have 50 cars or five million cars. We better not have any cars, 'cause then they're gonna do the job for us. That's normal. They don't need to be angry with you, Mr. Krassic. They, people, protect their interests. I'm mad at us because we don't protect our own. Two days ago, in a second address, I said that I was missing two sentences in this law, at least not to say - two members, not to say - a little bit more than that, which is, firstly, that the state would give a guarantee that some railways, some routes, some infrastructure, would function even though there was no economic reason, because, of course, it could be a state interest. For example, there are some people living in a remote area that is rarely inhabited because they do not have good living conditions, who associate with others. We even got a promise from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that such an amendment would be made by the government. She didn't give it up. Secondly, the law has to stand, otherwise it's not worth it, if we don't write it down that we have to work on Corridor 10, in this case the rail corridor 10 is thought of. It's in the terrible interest of our country. Independent of who sits in government, and who makes up the congregation majority, and who makes up the congregation minority. Because if it's all relative, if we write anything else in the law, one who's not exactly rentable, let him do whatever he wants. We even advise him to do it in law. It's the least, maybe something else they make up. Therefore, I say unfortunately I am even more convinced that this is a very bad law, I disagree with Mr Savic, he said – we will write changes and supplements, we will not write changes and supplements, we will have to throw it in the trash. He's not so good that you can't write changes and supplements, you have to write a new one. I'm sorry that there was no hearing anymore, it was besides everything we said, we didn't submit seven amendments, you accepted one, indirectly not ours, but Mrs. Djeric, but you accepted several amendments from some other parties, but given the text of the law, I think you could accept 80% of the amendments that were given here. Those 20% are amendments, so I don't say who. So I remain in that unfortunately this assembly will, by all accounts, vote this law, that this law is no good and that we will have to write a new one soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59466	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The voting day will be 12 September at 11.00 p.m. Dear People's MPs, we move on to a search in the details of item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PANTS LAW under Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail of the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, I have also attended the meeting today, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Mirjana Jelić and Vladimir Marić, Assistant Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Goran Mihajlović, Momir Markovic, Vladjan Jeremic, Radisa Ilic, Dragan Stevanović, Zlata Djerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Dusan Marić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vjerica Radeta, Dejan Mirović, Milorad Buha, Srboljub Živanovic, Petar Jojić, Natasa Jovanovic, Bojan Mladenovović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Krasić, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragan Živović, Milan Škrbić, Sladjan Mijalić, Bozidar Delić, Nikola Žutić, Lidijan Mla Žutić, and Boris Boštić as well as their opinion and Boris Krastić. You have received the Report of the Committee on Science and Technological Development. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59467	A colleague, Goran Mihajlovic, directed, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment requiring an extension of the definition of the bill and a clear formulation of everything covered by the subject of the regulation and definition of this law. In fact, the proposer in Article 1 says: "This law regulates the legal protection of inventions". Legal protection is only one segment covered by this law and nothing more. counterpart Mihajlovic went far deeper, deeper, more comprehensively, as is the legal practice in the Republic of Serbia, to cover all the important areas of patent law, so he said in his amendment: "This law regulates patent rights, restrictions in the application of patent rights, legal protection of inventions, patents or small patents, European and international registration conditions, as well as other issues in the exercise of patent rights and a small patent. "The government's opinion is that this amendment should be rejected. They say, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed formulation is imprecise and does not cover everything prescribed by the bill." The bill covers only one small area, which is protection. It's visible from your law, where he has 19 heads and only one applies to the legal protection of patent law. Why is she inaccurate and unknown? This is one volunteerism for whoever responded to this amendment. I think this is a government mistake. If any bill were opened, we would see what's in the amendment, if it were the right solution, and not what you wrote in the patent bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59468	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Mr. Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. It's a patent bill. As we have heard, the Government has accepted this amendment, and the argument is: "The SRS finds it unusual to mention contracts that have been confirmed by the National Assembly in the concept of legal terms of the law." It's a good thing you adopted this amendment, otherwise this whole section called "The Meaning of the Expression" could be renamed "The meaning of expression, contract, convention, agreement, law and resolution". The patent law has so many expressions and concepts that need to be defined, and it is really not common for them to be placed in the same basket with the names of acts adopted by the National Assembly. Those who wrote this bill as if they had never read any laws in their careers. So the citizens can hear what it looks like, say, point 10) says "the Paris Convention" and then mentions what date it was voted on. Well: "The Budapest Agreement is the Budapest Agreement" delivered on 28 April 1997 or "The Agreement on Co-operation in the area of patents is a co-operation agreement in the area of patents, signed on 19 June 1970". It may be modern in the EU, but it's really funny with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59470	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59471	Dear fellow MPs, this is the continuation of the story started by Radisa Ilic. If the law was written in Serbia, we believe that it would be different, that it would be better, and if this copying practice were broken we believe that registration is more technicalally quality. Mr. Ilic started a story, and then you get to point 22 where the certificate is said to be a certificate. Well, by that logic, you didn't even have to explain what it was, it's so clear to everyone. We've suggested technical and nomotechnical, as it's already legally correct, to say that the certificate is a solution, so the follow-up sentence that these in the text of the law, you could think of what you want, to say that the certificate is an act, that the document, that the regulation, that the solution, is that it's a paper. It would be more meaningful than you said the certificate was a certificate. Then in the explanation that you refused me the amendment, you refer me to Article 120, and you know what it says in Article 120, it refers to a certificate recognition solution, but that is how it is possible in the country because legislation is adopted with the documents of an institution whose members we are not, both the EU and the World Trade Organisation, and it is a barren business and there is nothing from that job. Ministers change politics go quickly and do something smart for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59472	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee and technological development accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59473	If two persons create the same invention, the bill will recognise the patent to the person who first submitted the application to the competent authority. In this way, the person who first filed the application is practically given an advantage over the person who first created the right. We in the SRS believe that it is not moral, on the one hand, it is contrary to the spirit and purpose of this law, and on the third hand this is the opposite of the regulations governing property and legal and bonding relations. For this reason, we have submitted to this provision the following amendment: "if, after issuing a decision on the recognition of the right to protect the finding of another person in the court proceedings, it proves that it first created a find, the right to protect the finding belongs to him even though he later filed a patent application." Unfortunately, the government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: "an amendment is not accepted for the reason that a member of the 140th proposed law fully defines the case if, after the recognition of the third party's patent in the court proceedings, it proves that it has the right to protect a certain finding". In the light of the amendments, the government practically repeats what we have stated in the explanation why the amendment should be accepted. I quote: "Accepting the amendment would complete Article 3 and bring it into line with Article 140. The bill of law." So this is another example of senseless reasoning by which the government rejects very constructive amendments. I will take this opportunity and the presence of Mr. Obradovic to draw attention to an exceptional inventor, to an exceptional finding from which Serbian experts can make billions of euros worth of money. Živoslav Milovanovic, the inventor from Krnjev, near Velika Plana, created a device called the "Rotation Clip Device", which can be used as a compressor, pump, vacuum pump, turbine, engine and other propulsion and hydraulic pneumatic machines this year. The right to a recognised patent, Milovanovic, received international protection on March 1st of this year, for his invention. That satisfaction cost him a total of just over 40,000 euros. The Serbian inventors' alliance evaluated the invention, quotes: "As an extraordinary idea solution, unique in the world". The Finder's Union Committee decided to urgently ask for financial assistance at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to protect patents at European and world level, with an assessment that exiting the international market of pumps and compressors, with this device, could bring billions of euros to Serbia. However, since he did not receive help from the state, he did not come across the state's understanding, and if he addressed various addresses, Milovanovic protected his invention from the money he received from private persons, from a pensioner from Belgrade and from a gaster from Belgrade living in London. As far as finding it, I'll illustrate the following data. The world's largest pump manufacturer is Grunfox from Denmark, which, with annual production and sales of 10 million pumps, covers mostly 50% of the world's sales of pumps. Milovanovic found that the pumps used by his device in the same gauge as these Denmarks have almost 100%, more precisely 97% more fluid flow than the Danish company's pumps. So, one remarkable result, exceptional reference. I'll quote, another opinion of this protection committee and the Institute of Intellectual Property, where they say, "These devices are easy to produce, their production is cheap, and the application is very easy." In order to illustrate the work of existing pumps, a tractor of 70 horsepower is needed, and Milovanovic's device is sufficient for a tractor of 40 horsepower. This device is ideal for serial production, especially for the production of water pumps and irrigation. Milovanovic would like to start production, however, as you assume, there is no money. I say all of this to the public to hear about this remarkable invention, this remarkable inventor, but also to appeal to Minister Obradovic, that Mr. Milovanovic, who will address him these days, will be admitted to the interview, to learn about this discovery, to provide all the necessary assistance to initiate the serial production of the device with this pump and that it would not happen to us in five, ten or twenty years to read how the world's company has achieved an extreme profit by producing pumps on the basis of this finding of Živoslav Milovanovic from the Great Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59474	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59475	Thank you, Madam President. Together, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Article 3 speaks of which all subjects of protection, i.e. who has the right to protect their invention, and there are several views there. Among other things, it is said that the right to protect the finding has an inventor or his legal follower or employer or his legal follower, meaning that this substance is treated in this article. We have otherwise submitted an amendment to the last position that says: "A person employed by a competent authority does not have the right to protect their inventions while they are in a working relationship with the competent authority, as well as a year after the employment relationship is terminated". So you're predicting and saying that it's enough to take a year for someone to have the right to report patents. Because of citizens, otherwise, the rest of us know, the competent authority is, in fact, the state branch, that is, the authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of intellectual property of the Republic of Serbia, that is, at this point, it is likely to be the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property for a long time. So, we suggest, by not accepting our amendment to extend this period of one year to five, so that the person who worked at the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property has no right five years from the day of termination of the employment relationship in that office to protect his inventions. You said you didn't understand why we're extending that deadline. We believe that a period of one year is not enough protection because still people who work at the Institute of Intellectual Property are really in a place where they have a large number of information that can be very well cashed in, this is usually an area where some inventors, and above all employers earn a lot of money. So we think that these years isn't enough and that if someone from the Bureau is a kind of inventor, etc., it has to wait for a reasonable period to pass before reporting a patent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59476	National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59477	The amendment is really good in the sense that it draws attention to something that is the phenomenon that's being talked about. However, there is some evidence, but that we are now not going with names and last names, essentially the amendment needs to resolve the issue of conflict of interest, because it is simply unacceptable that someone who works in, not only the competent state authority, but in the competent state authorities, and is in contact with data, information and information on directions, roads, directions in which someone is looking for something, those persons have to fight, not to abuse that information for their own purposes, or to sell information to someone else who might be able to finish a job. I have to tell you, given our mentality and this fact that Europe has no alternative, as you say, I see we're doing this under stress, these Apaches are flying, they haven't dropped the bombs yet, well, then we have to open our eyes to all sides. A little help is also being given to Wikiliks with these dispatches, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, where they explain what the US administration in Belgrade thinks of state officials, officials. Did you read that dispatch where they say they have an insider at Vice President Djelic's, he ran this resort six months ago, he proposed some laws to stimulate scientific and research work that Europe pays for scientific work – research work, enables access to the means for our science to explode, don't give God with those means to blow up our science, so they'll steal all those patents. But here, another patent is being promoted. He does not fall under the provisions of this law. Some here have patented how they can be functionally illiterate, without being a messiah, and that doesn't fall under this law, Mr. Obradovic, you can't solve it, no matter how much you want to solve that problem. So that's the problem, that question only partially opens this amendment. Otherwise, since Europe has no alternative, let me tell you, when these burned down this assembly, those who persecuted us, the first thing they did here, they moved out of Vinci. "Vinca" is in three stages of the village, and Dragan Domazet was the first. The Americans gave everything, only to move radioactive and nuclear waste, to destroy the Vinca Institute, as the leader from the time of Pavel Savic. It goes on, now the institutes are half-privatized. A provision that speaks of inventors who have come to find themselves in working relationships, as scientific associates in some institutes, has been diminished today, especially those from the Military Institute, so the state does not recognise their right to patent, does not give them moral satisfaction, and let alone material, and people finders have been, thanks to them, invisible has become visible, which is very significant, it is the pride of the American aviation industry, it has fallen here because you see, on the "Histori Channel", they don't even show that he's down, he's still invisible, he's the highlight of technology, 20 billion must have cost one. They gave a lot of money. I'm simply afraid that these regulations don't essentially contain invention and various scientific research activities, especially with copyright. Why? Because it is now the dominant principle of market economy, because everything is on the market. When everything is on the market, everything can be offered and everything can be bought and it can be bought and it can be learned that there is a man in the middle of the market looking for something, something is doing, in some garage, looking for some achievements, as Mr. Maric talked about a man, who is certainly successful when it comes to the pump, etc. The Wikiliks warns us, we have tasters that go through various embassies, and they talk everything, and thanks to that, we now know what the Americans think about the fifth column they installed here, I mean Serbia, so we heard, Sutanovac wanted to be mayor, but as a consolation prize, he became defence minister. So, as a consolation prize, that's for him, remember. Now we're talking about protection, just to finish Mrs. Djukic, and you know personally that there are some problems about these patents, related to Kragujevac, and I recommend to people who are dealing with these inventions, that they manage everything well, that they prepare the documentation, that they register it immediately, to protect their invention. The inventions are being stolen, some countries have made economic and economic expansion, because they have successfully copied something that is the highlight of technology, transferred to some territory, and after a few years they sell it as their product, so they sell their knowledge. We've got people stealing that paperwork and taking it abroad, you all know that. It needs to be stopped, and this is one variant of how not to leak information from the competent state authority. I'm spreading to the authorities, because it's also very important that the ministry is funded by scientific and research work. There's some information coming in. Once upon a time in a golden age, we also had some centers to implement scientific achievements and patents, and when the new non-alternative pro-government came, the first center was suffocated, there are no new technologies, we can't break, we have to buy technology. Do you remember the debate about one of our regulations and the idea of selling to Telekom, so it's said, that's where you should concentrate your mind on information. Djelic says we're going to sell it, we're not interested in it at all. Now word is, we should soon pass the return law, and how do we get back what Djelic took on the basis of interest. It is seen when someone moves between, and has taken over, and how can it be seen when an interest policy in Serbia has earned so many bonuses, that it has become a 11.5m-euro shareholder, how can we solve this? By nationalization, by confiscation, how do we solve it? So you take care, because regardless of what you write, the practice of applying these laws, of solving, is the second dimension, and I mean this same story, and the worst dimension of this story. Thank you for your patience, Mrs. Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59478	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 4, the Government has proposed the following solutions – a foreign, natural and legal person with regard to the protection of find in the Republic of Serbia, enjoys the same rights as domestic, physical and legal persons, if they come from international contracts that bind the Republic of Serbia. The SRS suggested that this formulation be changed, so that the word "binding to the Republic of Serbia" was replaced by the words "confirmed in the Republic of Serbia". The government has rejected this amendment, for the reason that the international treaty can be confirmed without having entered into force, while the term – binding, implies the entry into force of the international contract. This reasoning makes it clear that the Government does not know much about the substance of the conclusion and entry into force of international contracts. I refer to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as Mrs Gordana Komic would say, to read article 194. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says among other things, that confirmed international agreements and generally accepted rules of international law, are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, without the confirmed international agreements being contrary to the Constitution. What is the problem with this government's understanding, its entry into force and its obligations by international contracts? The problem is, Mr. Minister, that, first of all, no international treaty can bind the Republic of Serbia unless confirmed by the National Assembly. Therefore, it is impossible for the Republic of Serbia to be bound by an international contract that has not previously been confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Such international obligations arising from international contracts which are unconfirmed in the National Assembly, such international obligations, Mr Minister, do not exist or exist. So whenever the Republic of Serbia closes an international contract, it is subject to the certification procedure in the National Assembly. The second thing is what the international treaty says when he comes into force. It can also take effect 10 years after it has been signed or 10 years since it was ratified, but it cannot enter into force without having previously been confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, the SRS amendment is based on Article 194. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that the rights and obligations of international contracts can be owned by both foreign and natural and legal persons only if they are international contracts confirmed in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government has fairly artificially and incorrectly separated the commitment issue by means of an international contract from the issue of its establishment, or entry into force. So it's all one identical matter. Any international contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or one of its ministers may be bound by domestic, natural and legal persons, or by natural and legal persons under the same conditions as domestic ones only if that international contract is confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we simply do not want to allow the situation as a parliamentary group, and I hope that neither does the Government, that the Republic of Serbia is bound by an international contract that is not confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Such international obligations, which are otherwise much spoken of today in the Republic of Serbia, stemming from some of the acts that are not confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should simply not be implemented. Here, first of all, the SRS thinks of the so-called S.H.I.E.L.D. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Nothing not confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. The same is true when it comes to these property rights and obligations in the area of patents, i.e. copyright protection. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if there is an international treaty that binds us or from which the rights and obligations for domestic or foreign, legal and physical persons are derived without being confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there are any such international contracts. When I say - international contracts, I mean formal international contracts that are concluded in accordance with international law, I don't mean these secret international contracts that are concluded informally, orally, behind closed doors and for which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't know about. When it comes to patents, when it comes to copyright protection, there are international standards and, as my respected counterpart Zoran Krasic noted, the notion of international standards is much broader and much more quality than the concept of EU standards. Therefore, there are international standards in this area and they should certainly be applied, but these international standards are contained in some multilateral international conventions that are certainly subject to ratification procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and are simply not possible to obtain certain rights and obligations from international agreements, and that this international treaty is not previously confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59480	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59481	I just want to add something since this is all well explained. What's this about? Here are concrete examples to explain. You remember that the United States passed a law ratifying the Rome Statute of the Permanent Court of War Crimes. They never handed over the instruments of ratification to the UN Secretary-General, but since 2002, when Clinton left and a new administration came, they have initiated a procedure to conclude bilateral agreements with all states and to prove that bilateral agreements cannot be held by an American soldier responsible for war crimes because, for God's sake, they bring peace wherever they came, there is peace. So the ratification documents are not submitted and the Roman statute does not oblige the United States. Let's see what our practice is like. Well, Snezana Malovic has concluded several interstate agreements with this Croatian, BiH and that of Montenegro. The component of those agreements shall be designated members under which those agreements shall enter into force immediately. They haven't been ratified in the National Assembly yet. When I ask them the question when will be ratification – they say we don't care. We're already applying that. It has the treatment of a secret agreement, an illegal, illegal, an agreement that absolutely doesn't oblige us. Why? Because it's not ratified, because it's not published in the Official Messenger, the international contract and because it doesn't exist, but it's being handled. It is only done when the government does not respect the Constitution and the law and when the government does not respect its citizens. That's why, with this amendment, we've been paying attention that it's impossible to apply an international contract unless it's ratified here. It is immediately being built on that this area has continuity where it is possible, I am sure, that ten, twenty and more years ago some international contracts that were binding at the time were also ratified, but here at the level of principle we are bearing an amendment in high respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, independent of the National Assembly, brings citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59482	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59483	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like you to tell me how long it takes to transfer our session, so we can plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59484	The transfer is up to a few minutes before 20.00 hours ago, and then the transmission will be delayed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59485	Thank you. The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 5 and before I start talking about the amendment itself, a few sentences of introduction. So, in the state of Serbia, it is legally established, it is official, a register of representatives and it is quite logical that those who are members or members of that register can represent before state authorities legal or natural persons who have no residence or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 5, you say as follows: "A permanent natural or legal person who does not have a seat or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be represented by a representative in the register of representatives run by a competent authority or a domestic lawyer." I really don't mind if I also have a domestic lawyer who's registered in the congressman's register, but you don't write it here, but you're separating that both domestic lawyers and those who are registered in that congressman's register. I'm asking you why there's even a register of MPs. If someone isn't obliged to be registered in that register, why does he even exist? You replied to me this way – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, under the Law, all lawyers are authorised to represent parties before the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, then we have parallel organs and we simply have an extra register of agents. Something's wrong with that. What I would also like to comment on with you, when I spoke in principle, I mentioned that there was no need to comply with the laws of Australia and Denmark. I was persistent, so I reviewed the law of Denmark, not Australia, thinking it was pointless, but I looked at the law of Denmark and the law of Croatia, which is, for example, our neighbouring country and it was very interesting to follow its path towards the EU because it is far ahead of us. They only have the opportunity to represent legal and natural persons who do not have a seat or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or Croatia, who are registered in the register of representatives. So, I don't mind and the lawyers of the locals who are registered in that register can do it. Like this, you seem to be making a real mess. You have to follow, I actually think that's a general problem. The laws must be in line, what screams in one must follow and what follows in another law. You've got all the laws mixed up, all the jurisdiction mixed up. You've got the Law of Lawyerry, you're calling on it one minute, then they've got some laws that have been introduced before, you're referring to them. It's just, it's got to stop and see where we're at. Give one possibility and let that possibility apply to everyone. Now, I think if you don't accept our amendment, then there will be a circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59486	The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59487	A colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to Article 5(2). The bill and asked for him to be deleted. For the sake of the public, I will read it, but it is very important to read attitude 1. Paragraph 1 states that a foreign natural or legal person who does not have a seat or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be represented by a representative registered in the register of representatives run by a competent authority or a domestic lawyer. Item 2 says this: Exceptionally from the provision of Article 1 of this Article, a foreign natural or legal person may take the following actions on his own without a representative: one, filing applications and taking other actions for the purpose of determining the date of application for protection of the finding. The person who wrote this would have to explain how he would submit it, how he would submit it physically and legally and what other actions were in order to determine the date of application, etc. The most controversial point is point 2. says - to receive notifications from the competent authority regarding the procedures referred to in point 1 of this position. To whom will the competent authority send a written report? To what address? How do you co-response with someone who doesn't have a seat, or a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Under three – to pay fees and charges for the costs of the administrative procedure. How do you pay your fee? That's impossible. Now go to the post office and you as a citizen who has a residence and a ID card and citizenship pay something in any account if you don't have an address. If you don't type in the address, you can't do that. Go to any post office or bank and make a shop and say I'm wrong. This is now a fundamental remark that has been made in this amendment. It's a matter of purpose and justification for allowing someone who doesn't have a residence here, there's no place to come, to perform any legal action without a representative. Go to any country in the world and make any legal shop, especially a legal store in this area, and you'll see that it's impossible. We enable this way, this is one valve that foreign natural and legal persons can perform their actions, and in particular the dangerous formulations they say – other actions for the purpose of determining the date, which allow foreign natural persons to do what we as citizens of this country cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59488	On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59489	Thank you. This is practically our second amendment to this same Article 5 that talks about representation. My colleague explained the amendment to item 1. This next amendment refers to attitude 4, and we're not talking about the proposed solutions, we're talking about using a few places of one word, which I practically don't know how to say, because I don't know where the accent is in that word. It's a word written "written". It can be spoken as written, adjective, or possibly written when it is in the function of the directory. If you are already talking and using this term, then you should have written in Article 2 where you are talking about the meanings of certain expressions, then you should have written there – the word written means that too. You direct me, it seems, to me, to the General Administrative Procedure Act and say that in this law it is in Article 79, says – it is prescribed to deliver the power of attorney to receive a letter, so you have taken that word with that meaning. As far as I understand it, it's a complete correspondence or communication between the Institute of Intellectual Property and the person representing, or who's a power of attorney. You're asking the inventor to provide you with information in time on who his authority is, so that he can receive those letters. I resent you not explaining it in this dictionary of expression. The law is that it is written, this will probably be the most used by MPs, or lawyers who deal with this matter, even not a large number of them, but when we pass laws, then it should also be understood that an ordinary citizen, who is not a lawyer with that specialization, can understand it. In particular, this is a law that is interesting for inventors, and they are very smart and intelligent people, but I think they will also have great problems for some members of this law to understand. I've been thinking about what kind of term that might be. It even occurred to me at some point, seeing as you're talking about the address, mailing out solutions, notifications, etc., at some point I had a thought to write here – letters or mail. That would be even funnier than this word "literate." I've proposed that you use the word "notification" instead of "written". You say they're not always notices, but they're sometimes solutions, but it can also be a notification containing a solution, because it's basically a closed letter being delivered. I think you could take care of it in the future. There are other places in this law. It's not just this word that's controversial, it's some other word that man's never heard before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59490	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59491	The definition of patent is given in Article 7. The promoter says – patent is the right to be recognised for finding from any area of technology, which is new, which has an inventive level and which is industrially applicable. I proposed in this amendment to add – agriculture, since you included agriculture in Article 13. For the sake of the public, I must read the provision of Article 13. It's a bill of law. Article 13 defines just industrial applicability. It says: "Finding is industrially applicable if the object of discovery can be produced or used in any branch of industry, including agriculture. Such a legal formulation, not to be rude, which is inapplicable in the easiest form of interpretation, but if you are already involving agriculture, then you must include agriculture in the justification of patents. Therefore, the amendment is also proposed in this text, which is industrially applicable, i.e. applicable in the areas of industry and agriculture. When we speak in a linguistic, legitimate sense, the term "and which is industrially applicable", does not exactly match the spirit of Serbian. It has to be said – applicable in industry. If we mention agriculture, then industry and agriculture. You, in response to this amendment, tell me in the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 13. The bill is defined what the industrial applicability of the invention, which includes agriculture. That's what I suggested. It's unclear. Unargumented. This is a waste of dust on all the legislation. What's most important here is to emphasize why we went to the amendments. We've prepared 30 amendments, it's just copying everything that one of the experts who comes from the West to explain. We have a definition of patents and patent rights in the 19th and 20th centuries. We have some three types of patent law definition. One is narrowly European, European and Anglo-Saxon. We have taken over, we have broken everything that is defined as the definition of patent, from the Paris Convention, from the Budapest Agreement, from the Agreements in the area of patents, broken down one definition that cannot be used in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia because it is not linguistically responding. It's just a list of something that doesn't fit into each other, not in terms of crashes, not in terms of the system, etc. It's harmful. But it all goes away, unfortunately, that's how it goes. When you don't accept the amendments in order, the SRS has written an amendment and you reject it, but it has to be meaningful. It can't be as stupid as it says here. Is what's mentioned here, you're in the 2nd term, and then you say -- it's not accepted because it's supposed to be there. Then why didn't you put it in article 7. In Article 7, if you were going to include agriculture, then you can't not include agriculture. You say that patent is the right to be recognised for finding from any area – technique, which is new, which has an inventive level and which is industrially applicable. It can't just be industrial if it's an area of agriculture. Only if you haven't settled agriculture in the area of industry. Never before has anyone put agriculture in the area of industry, it's special economic branches and they're separated and as such, but you baptize it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59492	The word has a minister, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59493	My friend Buha, it seems to me that your explanation is so logical that it doesn't need to be repeated. Because if you noticed Article 7 paragraph 1 explains what a patent is and realizes that the patent is also a right to be recognised and found from any area of technology that is new, which has an inventive level and which is industrially applicable. Article 13 determines what is industrially applicable. Then we should do it again in article 7. We have made it very clear – it includes any branch of industry, including agriculture. There's no need to just point out agriculture, as you said here - industry and agriculture. Because Article 13 explains that they have other industries, including agriculture. It's a very logical explanation. It's really logical. As strange as it may seem to you why we have not accepted the amendment, the explanation is very logical, or to extend Article 7 so that there is no attitude 13, or if there is a position 13, there is no need to extend Article 7(1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59494	Thank you. Mr. Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59495	Look, when something is defined, then the definition must be complete. The definition must be clear, it must correspond to the real state, if applicability is in the area of industry, then you must. If applied in another area, in this case, agriculture, then it must enter into the definition. As far as I know, industry and agriculture are two different economic branches. If you mention industry, then you have to mention the definition of patents and agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59496	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 7a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59497	Thank you, Madam President. Article 9 of this patent law is confusing. It's just amazing. The methodology for writing laws, regulations, sublegal acts is simple, if you know what you want with that law. The basic rule when passing and writing laws is that members cannot be opposed to each other in one law. If two things happen in one member, it's a very bad law and it's not a good law. For these very reasons, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. If you read it carefully, you will see that there is one opposite that is completely unnecessary in that article. We therefore suggested that this extension of this first position be deleted, because a single sentence is enough – finds whose commercial use would be contrary to public order or morality, that they could not be protected by patent or small patent. We think that's enough and clear enough to determine the position of that law on small patents and patents. It seems to me that it's not the first time in this law that there are opposing things. It happens in many of the laws the government proposes. I will remind you of what happened to the questionnaire that came from the EU and how many incorrect data were there, how many opposing things. The questionnaire was returned to this government for further processing, to correct incorrect data. What's really amazing is what you always say, and that's an excuse, that it's a compliance with EU regulations. If that's the case, then get them in line. Don't send confusing messages. Who can be clear? Even to the lawyers, this article is not clear. Two completely opposing things in one member. How can it be interpreted? How do you even interpret this law and this member? In the first part of it you say that it cannot be opposed, and in the second part you find special conditions, that it can still be used for commercial purposes. It's a completely incomprehensible thing. I think it's okay for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59498	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59499	I don't understand why this is being built into the patent law. That is the basic problem of this article where the amendment has been submitted. The amendment makes sense. Now I'm going to translate what that means. This means that the inventor patented his invention, and finding it is so dangerous that it damages, destroys civilization, morality, etc., provided that the patent enters commercial use. Then, now, bureaucratic is said – from the point of view of patent law, it is possible, should have protection. Now there's something theoretically worded, unnecessary, because this matter doesn't need to be entered into the patent law. Now one particular example. It would have been, like, 40 years ago and a few years ago, and they said, "He can't patent the one who invented the video recorder." Why? Because his first commercial use was in airplanes and satellites, and that's where spy footage was taken, so when what the young people would say, it was broken down, it started for commercial purposes, exploitation and big profits. So one is finding, reaching, and the other is commercial use. Commercial use is prohibited, and finding, if there is any technical, technological achievement, is registered. These dangerous inventions should be kept secret, and, Mr. Dimitrievich, he's gone, there's Donka and Milica, what's written here, so it's applied by the World Health Organization. She's all in secret projects. She's all about banned inventions. Imagine what genius minds thought about genetically modified plants, organisms, etc. It says – it is not so dangerous because it needs to solve the problem of hunger and therefore we recommend it for sub-Saharan Africa. That in our translation means - that's where we're going to let people kill, and we're not going to eat that in London.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59500	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59501	Thank you, Madam President. I can't call Mr. Minister, but Mr. Krasic, he doesn't kill genetically modified food, it just leads to you being sick for a long time and being treated by the pharmaceutical industry. Article 9, the DSS also submitted an amendment to Article 9(1) point 4 which refers to what is not protected by patent or small patent. In point 4 of point 1, you say this - animal genetic identity processes, if these procedures are likely to cause animal suffering, without achieving significant medical benefits for man or animal, as well as the animals resulting from such procedures. Since we have submitted an amendment that reads like this - procedures for changing the genetic identity of animals and dots, without what you've listed on the procedures that cause animal suffering, you've answered us next. You say the amendment is not accepted for the reason this article is in accordance with Article 6(2). Directive 9844 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 1998 on the legal protection of finds in biotechnology. First, this isn't true. You know why it's not true and how do I know it's not true? That's how we almost had a law here called the Animal Welfare Act, which has elaborated very precisely this directive and which is contrary to what you wrote here. So the situation is happening again that we have two opposing laws in the Serbian judiciary. One of them says one thing, and the other one says the other one. Please, look at what the Animal Welfare Act says. I was very interested precisely in this case that happened a few days ago in the Tiganjica, and I read very well what it says in that law, precisely because, thanks to our interference with the laws of the ministry, in which case the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecology, these cases happen. Matter is completely uncovered, everyone washes their hands. The woman worked or didn't act according to the law and, well, she happened to be walking around in a bear cage. It is, of course, absurd in one legal state, and Serbia must be a legal state and that is why we are in favour. Look at what you wrote and compare it to other laws. I sincerely ask that we finally begin to have all the laws of the same interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59502	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59503	Just, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to explain what Mrs. Milica didn't understand. You know, tanana is the difference between whether genetically modified organisms and food kill or require treatment. What if there's no treatment? So he's killing, right? It's about like that joke that says-- two twins died the same day, one smoked, the other didn't smoke, what's the difference? There's no difference. He says - there's a difference, the one who didn't smoke died more healthy. That's a little funny now. But it's a good idea to remind ourselves of some things. You remember in 2000 when the sun warmed up this National Assembly here and when Mrs Dulic-Markovic was in charge of controlling intentions and what was going in, etc. And that Sasa Vitoshević, what was he like? Then a genetically modified soybean comes in, then a soybean shotgun, etc. We're making noise here, and you've been making a noise from the SPS because it's forbidden. No, it says – you are primitive and simple, it is used in Europe etc. Just so you know, a few years ago, we passed a regulation forbidding it. Just to draw your attention to these European standards, they're very fluid. I just can't figure out that everything here can be introduced to the standard. There's that danger, because you can see for yourself that those who believe in the DS get hurt. I just don't know, I think a big spider will rule the U.S. Embassy after the WikiLeaks, no one can go there because they're all spies there, you see for yourself. We just found out how she got the location for the new embassy. We're clear. And after Perisic, don't let me talk to you. So let's be a little more careful and take care of our interests, because no one better can protect our interests than ourselves. As long as you don't have an alternative to Europe, you have to put up with me, and I'm doing very well with the EU, see for yourself. I drove the EU out of Serbia. Today you had that memorial gathering at the palace. You saw for yourself, she had to call the audience to applaud the parrot.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59504	What you're misconceiving and perceiving, I'm not going to go into it, but I'm asking you to respect the dignity of the officials of this country. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59505	It's a similar situation in Article 10. Bills of law as well as previous members. Simply, the translator does his job, strictly translates from the English language certain legal matter and no one after that agrees with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and with the language system of the Republic of Serbia. That's the situation in Article 10. Article 10(1) says this - finding is new if it is not covered by the state of the technique. Now, let me go out here in front of the Assembly and the first passerby to ask if his clear definition of finding, which is to find a new one, as you said here, is not going to be clear to him, the state of the technique. I guarantee you that. Out of a hundred people, maybe one will say that out of ignorance. The state of the technique as a legal concept here bothers and should be adapted to the language provision, the one that corresponds to the spirit of the Serbian language, which is the existing technical knowledge that fits here. You have explained this amendment to me the following – the amendment is not accepted because the state of the technique is an expression which is a legal standard in terms of patent law in the Republic of Serbia and is defined in Article 10(2). It's a bill of law. In addition, this provision is in line with Article 54. The European patent convention, which is binding in the Republic of Serbia. It's only binding because there was a translator working on it, no one else. There's no lawyer, there's no linguist in there. When the translator translates, then the first linguist must comply with the language system of the Republic of Serbia. It's an objection to the SRS, not only to this law, but to almost all the pro-European laws you've passed that have this feature. The translator strictly translates it as it fits the spirit of English, German, Italian, but it does not match the spirit of our language, it is inapplicable, the people do not understand it. The bottom line of what Plato defined is that she's clear, she's conceited. It is neither clear nor responding to the spirit of the Serbian language. That's why we asked him to adapt, no matter what the conventions oblige us to do, but they don't oblige us to use vague terms. We are bound by the Convention and international rules to respond to the spirit of our language, so that we understand as clearly as possible what is said in this legal and linguistic formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59506	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59507	I have submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club on Article 13. The bill, which refers to the industrial applicability of the inventions. At first glance, it might seem more like language synchronisation. However, this was not the aim of submitting this amendment. The amendment proposed that instead of saying "including agriculture" it should be written "and agriculture". The position of the SRS parliamentary club is that when laws are written, agriculture is given the place it deserves. In this case, Article 13 would read: "Finding is industrially applicable if the object of finding can be produced or used in any branch of industry and agriculture". We think this is much more right. It is indisputable to mention in the law the terms relating to agriculture, plant protection products, preparations, medicines for the treatment and prevention of animal diseases, etc. That is why this amendment to the SRS parliamentary club is more accepted. It is important in this debate to point out that the proponent, in a justification for the adoption of this law, stated that the application of the finding of a trade and trade agreement requires full harmonisation of the patent law with EU directives and regulations on patents. The government in Serbia, since the start of the agreement, does not want the public to admit how much damage this application brings to Serbia, especially agriculture. Just a few days ago, we had the opportunity to see through the media that among the products Serbia imports are also plums. What an absurdity, you have to admit. I took advantage of this opportunity to show on this unique case that the stories that the government serves us about the benefits that Serbia bears the transitional trade agreement simply fall into the water and do not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59508	The 21st Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Mrs. Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59509	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry to react like this, but I thought you skipped the amendment I wanted to react to. This is an amendment to Article 22. I must read the title above Article 22, which reads: "and the patience of the rightholder", and now this article reads: "if a protected product is placed on the market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by the rightholder or with his consent, the holder of that product can freely use it and make it available to him". We really had to respond to the word "stealer." What does the word "snatcher" mean, and does it even exist in Serbian? I come from the city of Valjev, which speaks, say, very pure and grammatically correct. If I had said to my teacher in Valian high school by accident, by some thoughtlessness, "Sticker," I don't think I'd ever graduate. I sincerely ask that when you write professional laws, i.e. They are translated by someone, given to someone who knows the Serbian language, because this will be applied in Serbia. It's quite funny that some terms in this law, and there are quite a few of them, are mentioned many times, appear in the laws. You are calling for them to appear in some other laws. I sincerely ask you, we write the amendments neatly, the DSS keeps to the purity of our language and we are not ashamed of being Serbs and living in Serbia, it is very important that this rich and valuable language remains with our heirs and so please, let someone translate what you have written, or just translated from another language. This stays, I hope you don't keep using the laws for 15 minutes or three months, this law is pretty important, it's very large and I hope it lasts for a while. So please write in Serbian, so people understand. There's an expression in Serbian for what you wrote: "squeaker". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59510	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59511	Since my colleague was talking about the noun "stiller", imagine what it's going to be when they start applying this fashion to female shopkeepers to create even more recent nouns, and then it's going to be either a sticker or a sticker, so I'm asking you and I'm asking you to take care of what you're writing in the law. Our amendment to Article 26. refers to point 1. This is one large member, and otherwise it speaks of forced licences, i.e.: "If the right holder refuses to grant other persons the right to economic exploitation of the protected finding or to impose unwarranted conditions on them for such concession, the authority of the state administration, responsible for the tasks in which the finding should be applied, may, at the request of the interested party, after considering the case, issue an emergency licence in the following cases", so here we have a number of such cases. What is not good is this first point, where it is said that this particular state body of the administration can grant a forced licence, and contrary to the will of the person who is the holder of that licence, in case the holder of the right to find himself or through other persons does not use that licence or is not using the protected find in the Republic of Serbia. It was clear to me here that the legislator's intention was that someone could unwarrantedly consider another person who wanted to use that invention, and then slowed down everything because he couldn't make a deal with him. What do you mean, "we're not using a safe haven"? The word "not enough" can mean something to me, it can mean something else to you. It can be used, used enough, and you'll say it's not used enough. It's very difficult to leave such an inaccuracies point in law. This is indeed something that can be a source of great abuse and grant these forced licences to other persons, contrary to the will of one who truly owns the license. I think you should have accepted this amendment. I am sorry that the minister is not here, because I know that Mrs Tapic cannot answer me in the Assembly, to tell me that you or that other competent authority can measure the word or that something is not used enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59512	National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59513	It's about Article 28(4), isn't it? Article 28 speaks about the scope and duration of the emergency licence, so this licence we were just talking about. So it's from that part or the area of the law. It is said in point 4 – an emergency licence is issued primarily for the supply of the domestic market. The word above all means nothing again, or you should have left it out at all because I don't understand that the proposer here says that these forced licences will be issued for the needs of the domestic market, so I guess that was the intention as soon as you put it in, then you should have left out the word excessively. I suggested that instead of saying too much, the word is added exclusively and that those words be replaced, and then the position is "an emergency licence is issued exclusively for the supply of the domestic market". Then it's all clearer. If you leave it like this again, it's the source of various abuses, too, but it doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59514	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59515	Thank you, Madam President, so Article 28 speaks of the duration of the emergency licence, in paragraph 6, you have written this - a review of the continued existence of the circumstances set out in Article 5 of this Article relating to these mandatory licences, carried out by the Authority of the State Administration in charge of the tasks of the area in which the finding should be applied to the reasoned request of the interested party. We felt that it was not enough and we felt that we should change this article, i.e. expand it and this is how it is said, as we wrote in the amendment – before the examination of the circumstances of Article 5. (this is an emergency licence undermining) is carried out by the State Administration authority in charge of intellectual property operations in co-operation with the authorities of the State Administration responsible for the tasks in the area in which the finding is applied, and on the reasoned request of interested persons. We really think that this looks complete and we really think that this is fixing, what you wrote, is that what we wrote is much better than what you wrote in Section 6. That's why we think you should reconsider and accept what we've written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59516	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59517	The word or two alone, because I think it's really important to draw attention to the use of the Serbian language, to go through the law again, I don't think that's good, because the next law that comes with this noun will tell us, you know, so in the previous one it's already gone, so we'll pass it on. I think it's a bad practice, that one should sit down and see and edit these unfortunate laws of ours, just by translating them into Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59518	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59519	In Article 33, it says - the authorities of the state administration in charge of health affairs will inform TRIPS, greater about the judicial decisions on the issue of an emergency patent licence relating to the production of pharmaceutical products, for exports to countries with public health problems under conditions under which it has been issued as well as its changes and abolition. Therefore, it is pharmaceutical products which will be issued by the Ministry of Health to countries with public health problems, which in fact means in developing and poorer countries, will be able to export a certain amount of certain pharmaceutical products and, in that case, the ministry is obliged to notify this international organisation of all the information on these exports. Here I looked at what you suggested, which data is being delivered and I just didn't essentially change anything, except I don't think you've put all this in a good way. I suggest that it says that the notice to be delivered to the organisation must contain the following information. So, the name and address of the license holder because it's a forced one, not as you say the name and address of the license holder. Number two, that it does not stand for "product" but for "product name", the name of the product approved for export to countries with public health problems. Under three quantities of products to be exported, not the amount to be supplied, this is unclear. Under four names of the importing country. Under five durations of an emergency license and an internet address. So we've offered you here a little bit better and more precise formulations than you suggest here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59520	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59521	Really, the DSS has submitted a lot of amendments to this law, and we've been really trying really hard to change something, but first of all, to put some things in order here. In Article 34, which has the title "No Imports", you say, "It is prohibited to import into the Republic of Serbia products produced on the basis of a forced licence issued in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of this Act for the free circulation of goods, etc. We're responding to this "putting on the market", as you mean putting on the market. Now you are still here to answer the following thing and say – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that this bill is harmonised. It's not harmonised, it's consistent with E.R. No. 816/2006. the European Parliament, etc. for the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. To be clear, we are not defending you from this harmonisation, i.e. Coordination we see it as a alignment because we speak Serbian, but we think you must finally take care of it. Honestly, I'm asking you to put something on the market. I don't know about that term in Serbian I know, but he's a little scrawny, he should have put it on the market here. I sincerely ask you to take care of the language, not because I am a language cleaner, but because in this Serbia we all have to work on learning to speak correctly, clean and respect our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59522	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59523	I don't know if I heard it right. It's okay. Still, i.e. Article 35 speaks of the customs authorities' conduct, and the proposer says in paragraph 5 – if it is found that imports of products held in accordance with the provisions of this law would not violate the prohibition laid down in Article 34 of this Act, although customs regulations are respected, the competent customs authority will release products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. These pharmaceutical products are the subject of exportation to countries with public health problems. Therefore, situations are foreseen where crossovers may arise, i.e. exports, imports and return of these products, etc. This is well-covered, all situations are foreseen, except that here the proposer unusually formulates it says – the competent customs authority will release products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the customs authority cannot release the products they will do so after importing some trading houses. Customs authorities can allow these products to be imported into the Republic of Serbia, then they can stay and wait for the commercial houses to react, to be in some warehouses, etc. but it is certain that the customs authority cannot allow these products to be placed on the market in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59524	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. National MP Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59525	Thank you. Article 37 has the title – Termination or alteration of an emergency licence. And we've changed your position a little bit, he's with us -- the rightholder, the holder of the license, can to the authority of the state's administration responsible for health affairs to apply for the withdrawal of an emergency licence if it is established that the other party does not fulfil the obligations of the decision to issue an emergency licence. In a decision to abolish an emergency licence, the Authority of the State Administration responsible for health affairs shall determine the time limit within which the holder of the licence is required to reroute all products held in the country under Article 30 of this Act or to remove from the traffic otherwise in agreement with the rightholder. And what we've also changed is in the same Article 37, Section 2, again this sticker, we thought it was supposed to be someone who had one. I think that, in essence, this is better as it's written with us, and I wish the minister here could accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59526	Without a tendency to usurp the place I'm in, I'd just like to say that the term is a sticker, simply domestic, in bond law, and that it's been used for 50 years. So even at a time when you were in power this term was being used, it was closer to the lawyers than we are, although there's a lot of logic, everything we're talking about today. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The word is Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this part of the law, we are talking about the duration of the importance of patents, and more specifically in article 40, we are talking about fees paid, and I will read the position of the 2nd member of the 40th, who says – the right to maintain applications and recognised rights, can pay any person on behalf and for the account of the applicant or the right holder. I believe that this position of Article 2 of the 40th should be deleted, because it is completely unnecessary, excessive, I believe that it can lead to misunderstandings to abuse, that, above all, it violates the human right of the applicant of the application or the holder of the recognised right, that I decide whether or not he will continue to uphold the right. Under this provision, as it stands now, fees for maintaining the rights of recognised rights can be paid by any natural or legal person, without any authority, without knowledge and without any consent of the holder of the recognised right. The SRS believes that only it can, must and should bear the recognised right to pay this fee, to maintain it, or the person it powers. As a result, we believe that this attitude 2 needs to be deleted and thus reduces the possibility of any abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59528	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Mladenovic explained this extremely well, but it is such nonsense that I have to comment on this. Once again, I quote item 2 in article 40, which speaks of maintaining the right of a registered and recognised patent. He says, the fees of retaining the right to apply and the right to be recognised can be paid by any person on behalf of and for the account of the applicant or the holder of the right. So it doesn't say anything with the permission and consent of the inventor. One completely pointless and insane provision that can lead to the abuse of all sorts. I wonder if the government people are aware of the stupidity they wrote. They wrote that everyone to usurp one uncut human right, the right of inventors, and to take certain actions in his name to protect his rights and interests. So, anyone, face off the street, literally, goes to the first bank branch and pays a fee to which one of the registered patents, whose time limit has expired, extends that patent. I was talking here about Živoslav Milovanovic, the inventor from Krnjev, who made an incredible effort to create a device with a rotational plunger, which can be used as a compressor, pump, etc. Imagine, a man after a certain period of time, after 10 or 20 years, decides not to extend his own patent, for whatever reason, can be a thousand reasons and a man will not pay a fee, but by this provision, anyone who can be well-intentioned or abused, can pay a fee and trample his right. For this reason, I believe that you should have accepted the amendment of counterpart Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59530	The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. No one wants a word. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. No one wants a word. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59531	It's very simple, the amendment requires precision because when a time period or a time period in which something needs to be done with the word immediately, it essentially means nothing. If that deadline is set on days, then that deadline means something. Why is it necessary in our laws to be the formulas that mean something? For one simple reason that rightly there are different deadlines and dependencies on respect or disrespect for a certain deadline, there are different legal consequences. I'll take just two examples, some deadlines are too inclusive, and some create a situation for obsolescence. When an obsolescence occurs, the right is not extinguished, but goes into natural law, and when a pre-inclusive deadline is not respected, the right is lost. However, since today's debate marks the fact that we don't speak the same language, unfortunately, because here we only have paper from abroad with Cyrillic letters, something that's a bad translation of the day I'm going into these things, and you don't understand me for a long time, I see that now you're starting to realize that I've always been quite right, and today we've had a chance to find out that these functionally illiterate and fundamentally illiterate are EU, U.S.A. favorites, etc. Of course, no one is smiling today, since you are not laughing, but I must remind you that it would be good for you to accept this amendment because we in the SRS have not only a wish but also an obligation to make the regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia normal rules, applicable regulations and regulations for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, three years ago, I mentioned a guy named Nikita Rakic, you smiled, smiled, smiled, and now Wikilix says he was the key. You also heard about Sasha Vukadinovic, director of the BIA, was selling documentation. It says "Time," I wasn't making anything up. I wouldn't be surprised if someone accused me of writing those dispatches about the U.S. Embassy. They confirmed everything the radicals were saying. I'm comforting you now, you know. There are good things that happened today. So far, we have had the media public service of European Serbia, and now I see that the truck is writing Serbia's media public service. So, Europe sank in Serbia. Thank you for your patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59532	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a patent law on Article 61, I have tabled an amendment that reads, "Article 61, paragraphs 2 and 3 is deleted." I consider it necessary to delete the proposed views because the logical follow-up to the amendments set out in Article 61(1) and as such unnecessary in the text of Article 61. It's a bill of law. This is a technical solution to the problem. I'd like to explain to the public why I wrote this. I will read paragraphs 2 and 3 that I request to be deleted after Article 1 of Article 61. Otherwise, it is the area of work relations and employee behaviour. Item 2 – if the report referred to in Article 1, the employee who creates the finding in a working relationship is obliged to immediately, indicating the irregularity of this colleague Krasic, after the founding of the employer submits a written report informing him of the finding. I think that is enough for this amendment and that this second position that states that if the report referred to in Article 1 does not contain the prescribed elements, the employer will set an appropriate time limit for the employee to remove the deficiencies in the report. This means that the employer of someone who has come up with or designed an object will make them say that it is not and that there is something else to add, correct, adjust, and that is the discretionary right of the person who has come to that patent, to the finding that wants to protect. I suggest you gentlemen from the government, i.e. The Minister shall accept this amendment in order to remove these two surplus positions set out in this text of the draft law, paragraphs 2 and 3 in Article 61. Proposed patent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59534	Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this patent law is one good example of how something that should be functionally good is completely ruined. Overcrowded here are members of many of the solutions contained in the law in the general administrative procedure, the Law on Liabilities and in some other positive laws. Here, article 61 speaks of the employee's actions. It's his duty to report to the employer that he's come to the find. Furthermore, Article 62 is the obligation of the employer to respond to the employee, and this is done when the finding was made by an employee who is in a regular working relationship, to say that he accepted his invention or that he was not accepted. The position of Article 62 is completely exceeded because a member of 57 regulates exactly and precisely what is considered by finding out from a working relationship. This is completely unnecessary. Shortly before someone said and called for the Law on Liaison Relations, the Law on Liabilities was from 1976 and was then used in the Republic of Serbia as a Serbian-Croatian language. He used to be a messenger of the people, now he has a messenger of the people and a messenger of the people. So you can't rely on something regulated by the Bond Relations Act as a rule that was passed 30 and a few years ago. In this law, we should have devoted ourselves a little more really to findings and a little more motivation of inventors, to continue to make an effort to make new inventions, so that they could be included in the industrial development of our country. Finding is not the EU's creation of anyone else, the inventions are also adorned by our people several centuries ago, so we care about regulating life and inventors in Serbia without a special invitation to the EU and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59536	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 68th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79, point 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sladjan Mijaljević, and then Mr Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59537	I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "abstract" with the word "sumption." The SRS believes that it is necessary to use the Serbian language in the legal regulation of the Republic of Serbia, and the amendment proposed in order to correct the situation in the law or to be understood by a greater number of people who need it. I understand that in some laws we have a dozen or more foreign words, especially some Hungarian or Turkish, given the turmoil of geopoliticalism in the last seven centuries, but that even today, when we have institutions dealing with the preservation and protection of Serbian language, we need to enter some Latin, French, especially English words, I don't see what institutions are doing to preserve language. If you want to look like some foreigners then give all the laws in English, like the Bulgarians did or when you translate something, translate it completely into Serbian, so the whole world understands it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59538	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59539	It's precisely because Mr. Minister is present and because I consider this an area for which the minister is responsible, although we are all obliged to respect Article 10. The constitution where it is said that there is a Cyrillic letter and a Serbian language in the Republic of Serbia, and if we come out of this Assembly right away, we can see how it is applied in practice through various company names, advertising etc., which we cannot influence in this Assembly in any other way than the laws and regulations that we are making, but if we do not respect it in this Assembly, especially, Mr Minister, if you as Minister of Education here directly in this Article 79, where it is known that instead of those words that come from the English language "abstrkt", we have a recognised and famous Serbian word "sumption" and do not accept it. I expected you to come sooner, since in a dozen cases, which is referred to by DSS MPs, the protagonist, means we have again and we can talk about a word that is far more appropriate and comes from the Serbian language, while the "stifler" and the calling for it to exist in the bond law, but it can come from the bond law of that Yugoslavia where the Serbian-Croatian language is spoken, and we are talking here today in Serbia about terms and the words of the Serbian language. Please, just because you're the minister of education and what the laws you are proposing and defending here in the assembly, especially when it comes to Serbian, there should be no dilemma. When, for example, these two terms or words are in the use of "abstage" instead of "abstrank" and "holder" instead of "stor." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59540	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59541	I must continue this story because it is very important and the Constitution obliges us to use Serbian language and Serbian terms in our official use. We stress that, here it is present, it is present in other legal proposals and very harmful, because this is how we break our language and bring citizens of Serbia not to understand their legislation. Serbian citizens will be in a position within a year, and perhaps within three months, not to understand what the legal norm was going to say. They'll have to use translators, especially that's important for legal persons. Legal entities use laws far more, they apply laws, and they have to use someone to translate certain terms. Why are we doing this? Why are we breaking our tongue? We have a concrete example of abstract and summary. Every Serbian citizen will understand the Serbian word "summary", and I claim that it will not be more than 10%, perhaps 1%. Now I'm asking you, if that's how you answer this amendment, you're saying it's meant for Article 84, so five members after this, so what kind of answer is that? You say it's a term of patent law. Is that term patent law used in Germany? Don't use it. Did you benefit in France? Don't use it. In Holland? Don't use it. Is it used in Russia? Don't use it. A specific term of that language is used that corresponds to the term abstract. Let's not break the core Serbian language. Here, this is what we break, not just in this word, but we have so many terms in this law and the laws that we make. Why would they now put Serbian citizens in a position not to understand their legislators? We're responsible here. We have a constitutional provision that binds us. Let's be serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59542	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59543	It's a very interesting discussion. I just have to remind you that we passed the previous law in 2004 and I don't believe that the relationship to Serbian was different then compared to the time now. These remarks were not heard at that time, from any messenger, how much memory I have served. I was one of those who voted in favour of the previous law and these remarks were not fundamental objections. I don't believe it. One hand could be counted by one MP if he were at that time talking about the content of the law and certain terms of the way it is now spoken. These are technical terms. The patent law exists, I think, since 1921, so we had in the late 1990s, laws that dealt with these areas. If we change the terms now that are technical, so we challenge, let me say, a certain confusion between people who are supposed to be users of this law, then we can do more damage than benefits, objectively. I repeat once again, it is technical terms, terms that form part of some other laws relating to this area and in something that already exists as a practice. This isn't a whole new law, what it might look like. That's what I was saying when I was talking about the law in principle, how this law came about and why we're changing it. And that's what you need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59544	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59545	Minister, neither you nor we are justified by what was once adopted. Let it be adopted, but the mistakes we've seen, and we've now seen in the bill, we point out that they need to be corrected. It's human to make mistakes, but it's even more human to make up for our mistakes. If we have a foreign term "abstract" and we also have a domestic term that is adequate for both in the field of technology and in the field of literature and in other areas, we use the word "summary", which authentically responds to that foreign term. But I am telling you that, let me say, 10% of Serbian citizens understand what abstract is and 100% understands what is "a summary". Then we use a term that's appropriate to that foreign term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59546	MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59547	I just wanted to remind the minister, we have accepted from the very beginning, although it seems when we talk about this patent law as if it were the first time the law in Serbia has been passed. No, there is. The current law was passed by the Serbian and CG communities in 2004. You were, if I recall correctly, an MP in the Republic Assembly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this law was passed by the SCG Community Assembly, so that you could not know with certainty what objections were then placed on this law. As for the SRS, the ones we're talking about today, and that's when we stood them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59548	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59549	This Article 84 is within the scope of the law on the launch of a search protection procedure. There is also elaborated how the application is submitted, the uniqueness of the invention, the content of the application to protect the discovery, etc. and this part when it comes to abstract, i.e. summary – abstract is the short content of the essence of the discovery that serves exclusively for technical information and cannot serve for any other purpose, etc. You give an explanation to the inventor, although he certainly knows what abstract is. However, this second position is problematic, where you say – the competent authority is authorised to amend the abstract if it considers it necessary. The competent authority shall be the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property. The Office may alter the summary or abstract submitted by the applicant to the Office. It shows here that the Bureau will not contact and consult the applicant on that occasion. Our amendment goes in this direction, that we believe that the competent authority, or the Office, may ask the applicant to amend the abstract if he considers it necessary. Then that's where the Bureau doesn't show up. Someone who can without knowing the applicant of the application and without consulting him to change his abstract. In your explanation, you're saying the abstract can't change anything, that it's just a description of the invention, etc. If that summary is irrelevant, then why would it exist? It is obvious to the applicant that an important summary describing his discovery is important. I don't think it's the Bureau that's supposed to change abstracts. I think it's to inform the applicant of his application to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59550	The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59551	Wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59552	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Mr. Delic wants to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59553	This amendment is also related to Article 79, and he, let me say, is closer to detailing the content, because he is asking that, in addition to where the characteristics and appearance of the draft are prescribed, it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment, because this article and this attitude are becoming more precise, although I personally do not consider it a fundamental amendment. Simply when I think about where I really don't think there's been any fundamental change, and then when we have in mind that we're both from the Serbian Radical Party and from other parliamentary groups, we've made some remarks on the members where this law is essentially improving, then we're simply getting this impression that when it comes to some members who aren't that important, where the opposition's objections are accepted and the amendments are accepted, maybe just because it won't affect the law itself more, and that we from the opposition would be satisfied, which at the end of the day some remarks have been adopted. However, I would prefer that fundamental objections be adopted, those which are essentially improving the laws, and not some objections which, I say, are technical in nature and which do not greatly improve the laws and individual members.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59554	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic to article 87. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59555	Article 87(1) reads - if one application recognised as the date of submission refers to multiple findings which are not linked to each other to a unique invention, the applicant may, on his own or at the request of the competent authority, draw up one of the more findings from that application, and submit a special application for each of them. The SRS thinks this is a vague formulation. The inventor can file a special application for one special finding, not necessarily. It can do so on its own initiative, and it can do so at the request of the competent authority. To make things clearer, Professor. Nikola Žutic has submitted an amendment proposing that this position be changed and that – if one application which has been recognised as the date of submission refers to multiple findings not related to the unique invention, the competent authority will inform the applicant within 60 days of the date of submission that it is required that within 30 days for each finding to which the initial application relates a special application. If the inventor once reports three inventions, three patents, we think there's nothing more logical than that, than to separate the reported items, that for each find, for each patent is a special application, a special subject. It's the only guarantee that there's no interference between the case and the loss of the case. We Serbs are talented to have such things happen to us. In an explanation of the rejection of this amendment, the government says the following. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed deadlines are unrealistic, given that the uniqueness of the finding is only being examined after submission of requests for a fundamental examination of the application of the finding. In this explanation, the government has missed out on the subject. The essence of our amendment is not the deadlines, but the obligation of the inventor, who once reported multiple findings, to submit a special application for each finding. The responsibility of the competent authority is to give him a written warning on that obligation. It's similar, but it's not the same. It's almost like someone asks Dusan Ivkovic – why did he let Milos Teodosic spoil so many balls at the match with France? He answered - yes, Duško Savanović was stressed that day because it was his birthday. It's similar, but it's not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59556	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 97. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Vojić – Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59557	Thank you, Madam President. Article 99 is a formal examination of applications. In paragraph 2, you say this - if the examination referred to in Article 1 is established that the application is not drawn up in accordance with Article 1(1), the competent authority, stating the reasons, calls on the applicant that within a period which cannot be less than two months or longer than three months, remove the deficiencies. We have responded to this – not less than two months or more than three months, because it is a little complicated. We offered to make it three months. What you've given us as an explanation is a little strange. You say that you do not accept the amendment, which is a solution to the Bill on Governance of the Administrative Procedure that allows flexibility, again a nice Serbian word, i.e. an assessment of the deadline for removing the deficiencies depending on the specific situation. We're not talking about flexibility. Ask the average citizen of Serbia what he means by what you call flexibility. He says very precisely by that – it's not work. Em's a huge administration, and she's really three years old, and she's not doing her job. So when you set deadlines like you did, you'll get people's opinion of it the way I said it. On the occasion of what the minister said and what Mrs. President said – the term has been used for 50 years. I completely agree with you. Maybe he's been using it for 50 years, and I'm not a lawyer. On the other hand, the language also uses terms – more naturally, so it is no longer useful. It's simple, language is living matter. He has overcome it, and now we say: A lesson. Also, what the minister said – there was no comment in 2004. Some of us were MPs in 2004, some of us were not MPs. Some were MPs of the federal parliament, some were republican. All those who really swallowed what we're reacting to can give you an explanation. I wasn't one of those, and that's why I have the right to make that observation. On the other hand, I represent one end that speaks very clearly and really cannot appear in front of people in my town and say, "Why didn't you respond to that or that?" On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I must tell you that you have warm greetings from my neighborhood. People say, just their students, their children are not in that group that gets free textbooks or ranches, and in some other local self-governments, such as Belgrade, which is far richer than Valjev and the environment, all this is possible. They simply ask – are some citizens of the second order, some third, and some do not exist as citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59558	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59559	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, I don't know why you feel called for 2004. You heard a colleague, Peric, explained nicely who the MPs were and who the parliament adopted. Mine was just to make sure those words weren't heard at the time. I did not speak at all about any individual parliamentary group or who made up the congregation majority or minority, I merely pointed to one aspect that, at least according to what could be read in the stenograms, was present at the adoption of that law and nothing else. But times change, you're right, and when time changes, the relationship to some subject and argument changes. There's nothing to argue about. As for the second, I hope you're thinking of higher-class students, because first-, second- and third-grade students have received free textbook sets. In fact, 228,800 students were first, second and third students. We had a meeting with the head of the school board today. They confirmed that the publishers had fulfilled their obligations. If you tell me that's not true, I'll check on Monday. All I know is that the first three grade primary schools received these free textbook sets. Belgrade extended the action, the City Assembly made the decision. It is their right, as some local self - administrations have taken the responsibility other than to obtain textbooks. Of course, in the coming years, regardless of who is the government and who the opposition is, this project really expands, that all eight classes of primary school, or all students in the Republic of Serbia, are part of this project and that they get free textbooks and, you say, that in any way does not feel double in certain parts of Serbia compared to where local self-government is living and what material opportunities are, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59560	I thank the minister. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59561	I didn't say or say any way I never showed you what you said, that they got first, second and third grade, in any way denied it. I just want to say that they didn't get complete textbooks, because many have commented that they had to buy foreign languages, etc., but we also have those in schools who are fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth grade, which are much more expensive and these textbooks are much more expensive. A nice action is that students get textbooks for free, but then it would be their turn to get the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59562	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59563	I couldn't agree more with you. If this had started in 2001, there'd be oha-ha now, but since it's not, we're right where we are. We started in 2008 and then every year we increase one class, because we don't have enough resources and that's the only reason, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59564	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 125th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 127th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59565	I thought I'd skip, but the simple word: "post" is also something to react to. There is no such thing as a word in the Serbian language "post" in male. Please, look at the words you have in Serbian. You've got a "imposure," but you don't have a "post". Believe me, you can also justify it in a legal language, language, language, language development, old language, 2004, 2007, 2009 whatever you want, but please, this is Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59566	The People's MP Milorad Buha wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59567	I must warn you again that there are professions. The translation profession has one single task, to translate a termological word from foreign language into Serbian. Is that appropriate? That's what a Serbian-language man should say. We're in favour of the translator doing his job. A professor of Serbian and Serbian language should say that the word, a foreign word, should be read in Serbian, and the one who norms the legal norm, the lawyer, should take a comprehensive look at the theory and practice of translation and abstract foreign words in Serbian and turn it into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So we have three professions. This is where we threw out two professions. We've allowed the translator to translate and we're allowing it the way the translator translates authentically into the rule of law. We kicked out a professor of Serbian language, a lecturer, and we threw out a lawyer who is normising, who has to look at the legal consequences of everything that will be prescribed by that termology. What legal practice will be based on how this legal norm is formed? You must not allow the translator to play a crucial role. The translator has a crucial role to play here. The way they translate it, that's how they live in legal life later. You can't do that. No country does that. I'm talking about logical things. It's bad practice. We mention it and ask for two more professions to be included: good students of Serbian language and good lawyers, without them cannot be normised.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59568	The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 168 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59569	A colleague of Alexic rightly observed a certain legal terminology that is unnecessary in this Article 168, so he suggested that paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The bill of law: "in the competent authority" is deleted. Why are they erasing? It is natural and normal for a professional examination to be passed in the competent authority. What are the legal consequences of depositing in an incompetent body? Nothing. So, unnecessary words, legally unnecessary words should be thrown out. Words that do not produce the legal fact should be ruled out and with the right of fellow Alexic requested the erasure of these legal terms in the competent authority. Is he being laid out in an incompetent organ? He's not laying down. When you take an expert exam and you come into an unauthorized organ, he says – it's not right here, it's placed there. So there's no need to build on something that doesn't fit legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59570	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 177th amendment. The MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59571	This is the last member in this bill, and the title above this article is the termination of the importance and provisions of this law, where the legislator foresees that certain provisions of this law, which regulate the mandatory patent licence, relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems, therefore, have a whole series of members talking about these forced licences, that they will cease to apply, and the provisions of this law, on the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. So this, among other things, shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not see reality around itself and that the issue of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU is likely to be delayed indefinitely. A year ago, Angela Merkel, Germany, said that a day ago and in Serbia, told the president of Serbia that after Croatia's entry into the EU, much time would pass before new members were admitted. So we believe that this member in this law is absolutely unnecessary, especially since in Serbia the laws last from four to five years, and then, not only are they changing, but they are being passed completely new. The one that's in effect is a little bit longer, but it's been in effect for about six or seven years, which applies to patents, so this is unnecessary. As I said yesterday, it seems that only the Serbian government really believes in this pre-election invention, or patent, or finding out from a previous pre-election campaign that Europe has no alternative. So there's really no need for this member to stand in this law and we're proposing to delete it. But I'd like to take advantage of it, we don't have a chance so often that there's a minister of education in the Assembly, and this is the beginning of the school year, and there's a lot of issues and problems as always at the beginning of every school year. I would draw attention to the Education Ministry's regulation, I think it is somewhere in April or May that a regulation for school administrations in Serbia that the Ministry of Education will not finance the course in the lower classes and that, I can say, the most affected not the teachers of the third and fourth classes, therefore lower classes, where, even in the last 20 years, I think, perhaps even in the early 1990s, the need to be recognised in the lower classes of physical education in better quality, i.e. that teachers are not qualified enough or qualified, so they are not qualified as professors of physical education, that in these lower classes, therefore, in the third and fourth stages of physical education. And that's when the need for teachers to take over in the third and fourth grade was recognized. You're this Regulation, so I can understand that there are problems in funding things, but I can't sort of understand that it's broken over the health of children. So, we're full of mouths and you and us about how our kids live pretty unhealthyly, that they spend a lot of time in front of a computer, so sitting down, that there are health issues like, for example, 30 or 40 years ago, so, kids with extra weight, kids with wrong spines. Frapantic data in the study are that between 60% and 70% of children have spinal problems and all this is the result of this changed lifestyle. Children are spending more and more time sitting down than they did before, so this regulation of yours will practically break to the health of children. So in the third and fourth grade of this year, because the Ministry has no money to finance teachers will again take lessons in physical education and that's not good. I know that the Ministry has been addressed, because these associations and parliamentary groups have addressed, the Association of Teachers of Physical Education, that they have spoken to and even asked for data, whether you or the National Educational Council, whom they have also addressed with a request to review this regulation together with you, how many people have been engaged, who are not holding those classes now. They say it's all about 200 professors, or teachers of physical education, and it's really not a large number. Now we've also talked about the state's lack of money and that we've reached everything, say, by the third year of sharing these free textbooks. Maybe it was a bad investment, that it was a better investment to leave teachers physical to work with children quality because poor work, not having good classes in elementary school really reflects on the health of the population. Minister, I'd like you to tell me if there's going to be any changes, if you've perhaps changed your mind, to remain in the third and fourth grade teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59572	Thank you. Mr. Minister, before I conclude and move on to the third point, since there are no amendments anymore, do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59573	First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs who have submitted the amendments and who have participated in the debate on amendments to the patent bill, for the words spoken. I think that, despite some amendments being accepted and some not, it is good to talk about the law and the content of the law because it is an important law for Serbia's development. In our opinion, we have introduced amendments to this law, practically made it new, because we wanted greater legal protection, which we wanted in those mistakes that occurred in the application of the previous law, to correct these mistakes, to bring the law into line with the provisions of the EU Directive, and to ensure domestic and international protection of patents, and thus to invite both the domestic and foreign public to make the area legally regulated and that there is one security of investment, to create better conditions for Serbia's future development through patents. As far as this question is concerned, I thank you all and I would not want to think in the way that my colleague Delic tried to ask the question, that some amendments are accepted because they are not fundamentally important, and that others are not accepted, in the last three and a few years, as long as I was your guest in the National Assembly in the field of education, now and science, I was really trying not to look at and not look, as a promoter, in the name of the Government, or the Government, at who the amendment is, but whether amendments to such a character are to improve the content of the law. You will, however, allow the right to decide on what amendments it appreciates that amendments that improve the content of the law, which are not, from any other relationship to the amendment, are particularly towards the proposer. As far as my colleague Donka Banovic's question is concerned, I think it's a mistake. We're not the ones in the Ministry who influence the number of physical education classes. As for the minister himself, I know that with my colleague Markovic and the Olympic Committee of Serbia, we have launched an initiative to increase the number of physical education classes in schools. This is about something else, something that was part of the education system and objectively appears as a problem, that the same job has been paid both teachers and teachers of physical education. There's a problem. There appeared a surplus of one teacher because they were paid for the same job and for each other, and one of them worked, the other didn't. This hasn't been reported to us, and that's where that possible surplus came in. This has nothing to do with the relationship with children, nor does it have to do with the content of the physical education class, but has to do with the relationship with the work being done. Is it correct not to work and receive money? It's not. That's the point, not what you're suggesting. There's no need to knock on the door and ask if I as a minister or as a ministry think children should have more physical education classes and how important it is for their health. No, it's not that. That's why we now have a problem, which in certain schools teachers of physical education appear as a possible technological surplus, and that's why we agreed with the unions to make those lists from August 15th to September 1st, to try to help them find a job. We're going to go public next week with detailed numbers by school administrations, how many people who are a possible technological surplus, but where and where less than these figures are mentioned in the public. I simply want to make this call to the public, to this educational one, that these figures are wherever and where less, and that we just wanted the representative trade unions to do the interviews, to check their allegations that in certain schools we receive beyond our knowledge, of course, the director may do so if he has a legal basis, but it is claimed that, past the legal basis, directors receive certain employees, although among colleagues who are technologically surpluses, the issue of teaching for the subject could be resolved. So there was no need, we're checking everything. We're gonna go public next week with all that data. This question you asked isn't the kind of character you gave us today, or maybe the way it was shown to you that it was. That problem doesn't exist since yesterday, it existed last year, and it exists for the simple reason that it appeared, to say, for the same work of extra contractors, one of which was actually working, and the other didn't work. It was perfectly logical for us to react. Otherwise, I don't think it's, as I say, the right measure to compare the project of free textbooks and, here, talk about, you mentioned a possible number of 200 people who are possible surpluses. I know that every man is worth taking care of and taking care of every man, but the project of free textbooks covers 228,800 first, second and third grade students, between 228,800 and the fact is that they get one set of free textbooks and these other figures there is a huge, huge difference, but we are also trying to find a solution for these colleagues. I hope you noticed that over the past three years we have managed to manage the education system, precisely because we have been conducting a serious social dialogue with employees, but I must tell you, and very serious talks with the IMF mission, to introduce them to what is the content of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, from the aspect of specificity, why there must be departments, why we want to keep the departments and past parent schools, that we have a significant number of minority communities, that we have eight minority languages at the level of primary school, five at the level of secondary school, etc., that all these specificities exist because of the demographic situation, the mechanical inflow of the population in certain environments and other things, and especially that we want to raise the quality of education. That's the information you mentioned a little bit and it seems that if we don't mention it, others act like it doesn't exist. We are on the last letters, and if we are not in the ranking of the Serbian state, we have made a significant shift by reducing functional illiteracy from 51 to 32, or we have reduced by 19% thanks to these results. As for the results of the writing-tests, in that cycle, at least that's what the OECD people say, we've made the biggest shift that any country has made in the last 10 years. That's something you should know. Because if in functional literacy you make such a shift, if in scientific literacy and in mathematical literacy you make a better score by 7-8 points, and we are, it is taken as a good indicator that the education system has started to move forward and to raise quality. It is not easy to catch up or quickly solve something that objectively exists for years back. It doesn't matter who was formerly a minister or who ran the resort, it's a problem that exists years ago. We have simply come systemically now to solve this problem and encounter many problems, which are not easy to solve. One of these problems is physical education classes and the fact that the same people were getting paid for work, some of which were just doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59574	Thank you, Minister. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59575	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I'm afraid we didn't understand each other, or at least I wasn't talking about all those things you just mentioned. I didn't say that you from the ministry recommended that the regulation reduce the number of physical education classes, I think it's three hours a week. I'm talking about your definition. You're saying now, and you're probably right, that teachers were getting paid for the full norm, where physical education classes were included, and that also paid for by gym teachers, who as the teachers in question held those classes, and then there was probably a double payment. But I don't think it's good for your commitment. Now I'm in danger of resenting teachers in Serbia, but I'm going to be realistic. So one teacher cannot teach physical education as well as a professor of physical education can. If he could, we wouldn't even be teaching those personnel. So he can't. That's why I mentioned this project of free textbooks. That's good, but it's a short-term investment. This would be long-term. I won't mention what countries they are, but you know for a fact that they've decided that every day there's a physical education class, in some countries that have a lot more money than we do, because they've noticed that the health of the population is ruined, because of the way of life, etc. So, investing in physical education, at that early level, and simply raising children in that direction, that they don't have to pay their parents, they certainly pay their children, like, to train them in some kind of clubs, but that's what parents decided to pay for. So whoever doesn't pay on the bridge will pay on the pot. I was talking about this long-term investment in the health of children who are now children but tomorrow are young people and our population. So I was talking about it. You're right, you don't need to pay for one of those same jobs, and teachers and teachers, but I think this commitment that teachers do, that it's not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59576	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality on the day of the vote. We move on to a search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on Copyright and Related Rights. You have received, honourable MPs, amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Donka Banović and Nikola Lazić, together Milica Vojić-Marković and Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Savivić, Dusan Marić, Srboljub Živanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, together Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojević, Momcilo Duvnjak, Sreto Perić, together Milica Vojić-Marković and Nikola Lazić, Goran Mihajlović, together Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić-Marković, Branimir Djokić, Vjer Rade, Milovanovic and together Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. You have received the Report of the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Maric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Dusan Maric wants a word. Here you go. Just to let you know how much time left: the SRS has 24 minutes left, you as an authorised representative for nine minutes, the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica has eight minutes left. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59577	Article 3 reads: "Article 21, paragraph 1, after the words "putting on the market", the words "original or multiple" are added, and instead of a point, they place the words "sales or other means of transfer of property". We in the SRS have submitted an amendment suggesting that after saying "sales or other means of transfer of property" we add the word "gift". This article would read, "Article 21 after saying "putting on the market" adds the words "originals and multiplications", and instead puts a dot on it and adds the words "sales, gifts or other means of transfer of property". It's meant to transfer property of the author's work. The transfer of property by gift is legal for Serbs also very widespread and traditional means of transfer of property, so the SRS believes that in the text of the law, the same should have been symbolically equated with the transfer of property to its sale. The Government rejected this amendment, with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment proposed in Article 3 is accepted. The bill is already covered, and in the broadest possible way, by all types of placing on the market originals or multiple copies of the copyright. All types of copyrighting would also be covered if this formulation were as proposed by the SRS – by sale, gift or other means of transfer of property, or if this term "sale" had been left out, so that it would read as "gift or other means of transfer of property". I do not understand why this bill gives priority to the consumer, the European term "sale" in relation to the term "gift"? I think it's one wrong approach. Here, I ask you now, as a psychiatrist and a lady – what does it sound better to you? Does the news: "Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic bought a collection of songs" or "Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic received a collection of songs on a gift? What's nicer? It's nicer than that. That's why I don't see any normal and human reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59578	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 5th amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) 41/1VS/SM19,40-19,50 The MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59579	Thank you, Madam President. So, before I say anything about the amendment, I have carefully read the reasons for the adoption of this law. One of the important reasons for law-making is that the law is in line with European Union regulations. You wrote in your explanation that although the 2009 copyright law is almost in line with the legal assets of the European Union and TRIPS, I ask the question, what is the truth. Whether he's entirely in sync or not. If it has been fully harmonised, how is it that a law that has 226 members is subject to change in 46 members. Was there a problem there somewhere? So that law wasn't in line the way you explained it to us in December 2009, not five years ago, but a year and a half ago. At the time we were exposed to the story, not your Mr. Obradovic, I think someone else defended that law, as it is fully in line with the European Union. What's the problem now? Whether the European Union is going so fast that we can't reach them, or you've been giving some signals to the EU, so when the answers came, you were forced to change those laws back-to-back. I think this story is closer to the truth, this second part of what I'm talking about. Now something about this amendment, we have suggested that the author or heir have the right to request from the person referred to in Article 35(5) of this Act any information he needs to provide for the payment of the fee that belongs to him from that resale. You've answered us that the general date for obsolescence of monetary claims is three years, and you've leveled that with information rights. We weren't talking about cash claims, we were talking about information, you can't even up money claims and the right to information. On the other hand, you know how our judiciary has been reformed, in a very specific way, in which Europe has fat reasons and objections, it seems to me that this three-year deadline, which many will seek information and financial claims due to the urgency of our courts, will not even welcome that three-year deadline. We are talking about this particular problem, and you reject this amendment in such a very cruel way, justifying yourself, equating monetary claims and claims in terms of information. I think what we have proposed by amendment is a far better solution than you wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59580	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59581	Simplified by speaking of this law on the protection of copyright and related rights, it could be said that it is essential to protect copyright and related rights. On the one hand, it is in line with this law, and on the other hand it calls for a number of EU directives, and here a very clear and precise question is raised, as fellow Dimitrijevic presented in his presentation, this law was passed in 2009. All of these directives have since 2004, 2005, 2006, and even some since 1971, 1973, 1975, 1976, and so on. In 2008, this government was created, and it was created on the principle of a European policy-making agreement. As it is now possible to pass the law in 2009, and the government is from 2008, this has nothing to do with you, Mr. Obradovic, at the time you were just a minister of education, and already in 2011 there is a great need for amendments and additions to this law. The bottom line is that they want to protect copyright and related rights, and to simplify a little story, it says, this law prohibits photocopying, shooting, photographic painting and similar works, both in general and in certain segments, especially if they are to be used commercially. Now it is said, if they are not used commercially, although it is very confusing and not known, is it commercial if a student is photocopying a script or textbook from his professor, so he from the Institute of Intellectual Property improves his knowledge, and thus creates a better opportunity for employment, so the question is whether it is commercial or not, but to leave it now. Article 12 on amendments to the Law, i.e. Article 43 of the basic law on copyright and related rights, makes exceptions when it is allowed without consent to photocopy and explain certain things. The government has proposed in Article 12 of this law exceptions, so the one I have submitted to, says, without special permission from the author, the multiplication of public, political and other speeches held in state bodies, religious institutions or at state or religious ceremonies. We have proposed in the amendment, the multiplication of political, religious and other speeches held at public meetings, state bodies, religious institutions, or at religious and other ceremonies. It would be said here, if it didn't come more seriously to this interpretation, that there's almost no difference, and the difference is great, and I think that the Ministry of Education and Science, because I can't really get a good opinion about this government since the raven blacked out, it seems to me, as the collectiveity of the Gore Government didn't exist, which doesn't mean that certain resolutions in it haven't done as much as they could, it seems to me that it was a little easier for you, Mr. Obradovic, because we have great students, and you remember Mrs. Djukić, when you were in Ljubljana somewhere in June of the month, and you gave the best students the books, we have great students in primary schools, in high school, foreign school, first or third prizes, first or third year, and you're proud to work there, but thanks to the students. We've seen some reports that there's some infrastructure in the road, rail, in the air traffic, behind 100 and somewhere, and here when it comes to scientific and research work, about 40 places in this country, people who do the best they can and bring themselves into that part, can serve pride. Certainly, it's not this government, perhaps some individual from that government and those people who participate, or victory. Several assistants and professors who helped, their contribution is also great. What's important now is that you accepted this, not the government, but the Ministry of Education and Science and the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property, because you recognized what was good. Imagine that the Duke of Styrofoam, that it was not accepted, could only report, and this is the state authority here and if he calls in February or April, some particular gathering, and from here journalists will have the right without his special permission to publish it, if it seems in front of this institution, or in front of the state authority, they can't publish it without asking. Then the public would be denied for one Styrofoam revolution and things like that. It's a good thing this ministry recognized what the Institute of Intellectual Property recognized and installed in the changes. This now applies more to you, Mrs Totic, there were words, you know about the need to protect the rights of estrad artists, so we have a great need to protect the economic interests of those such as end-users and who use, reproduce, they appear as listeners to certain music. I have an example from Loznica, where one caterer pays more to SOKOJ, individually and OFFS, more than combined electricity, water and municipal services, individually pays for it. You know of this problem and this is not a burden to you, but you promised me, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, that by the end of September this commission should comply with those requirements. These people who listen and reproduce this music, if it's already said in the accounts, are not against paying it, but to get it into some real one, let's say at least at the height of what the public service is charging or having something to do with their balance of success, and not in any way advocacy, so that the bill for SOKOJ or this other organisation is significantly higher spending and this is a catering facility than the consumption of electricity, water and utility services. I think this is going to make you understand that it's going to help you get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59582	The minister has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59583	Are we wrong to accept your amendment? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59584	Thank you, Minister. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. People's MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59585	You were wrong to accept Mr. Peric's amendment, but you were wrong not to accept this amendment. This member speaks of when it is allowed for non-commercial purposes and in the follow-up, when it is allowed to perform without having to ask the author's permission and not have to pay the copyright fees. I'm talking about a sequel. You now predict three situations when schools, or institutions, are exempt from these obligations. First, the public performance or presentation of published works in the form of direct study at the second point, so you say – public performance or presentation of published works on school events provided that interpreters do not receive compensation for their performance, so free of charge and no tickets are charged. What we propose with the amendment is to add a sentence – except when the funds from the tickets are intended for humanitarian purposes. Why? You know that students are very often organized to raise funds. Mostly it's to help a friend or a friend who's in trouble. Usually these are health problems, and among other things, the school tries to raise some funds to help its student. Very often these are events or concerts, so the students organize themselves and charge tickets and mostly come teachers and parents, pay tickets, be at the concert, and then the funds are actually used for humanitarian purposes. I don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. You should have taken it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59586	The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59587	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 13, Article 44, of the basic law, is essentially the same as colleagues from the DSS, it's just a little different text, the same in Section 2 to change. Article 44 reads: it is allowed without the permission of the author and without payment of the copyright for non-commercial purposes of teaching, and then point 2 of the public performance or presentation of published works on school remarks provided that the interpreters do not receive compensation for their implementation and do not pay tickets, that it is stuck there and that further text goes on there – unless it is a humanitarian character event on which the funds collected are fully placed for humanitarian purposes. It is essentially the same as the previous amendment with the aim of raising funds for the benefit of children of that school, for the benefit of the organisation within the school, to help children parents or children themselves or, as stated in the explanation, possibly sports teams, sports competitions or anything else that is humanitarian and to pay all the revenue from tickets for humanitarian purposes. I'm going to use another minute, Minister, just to remind you of that question I asked yesterday about a month and a few days ago, and as far as these copyrights are concerned as well. You didn't give me an answer. For the third time, I'm asking the same question. I find it incorrect that I've been asking the same question for the third time. You remember probably, it's about those optical discs. When it comes to blank disks, why does someone charge copyright? That's what I was talking about here yesterday. I'm not going to do it extensively. I'll remind you that the OFFS organization is charging copyright on blank disks. So, the importer imports an empty disk, sells an empty disk, and there are absolutely no copyright works on it. On what grounds does the organization charge that charge? No interpreters, no music, no film. What will that disk be used for later, we don't know. Later, if it's used for music or for a movie, then let the copyright be charged. We think it's unlawfully done by the OFFS organization, that it abuses the position, that it charges what it doesn't have the right to pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59588	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59589	Article 14 reads: "It is allowed without the permission of the author and without the payment of the copyright to multiply works by public libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives, only for their own archival needs if the work is multiplied by its own copy and if such multiplication of this institution does not intend to achieve direct or indirect property benefit". We have submitted an amendment suggesting that this restrictive provision be deleted if the work is multiplied from its own copy. Why did we suggest? I'll try to explain from the example I was talking about yesterday. For example, a school library for some reasons, for teaching, requires a certain book that is not in its possession. So it doesn't meet this legal condition that it has its own copy of the book. The school has a good will, there's so much money to buy one book, but there's no books on the market. All copies of the book have been sold out, and to make trouble bigger, the author of the book died, no longer alive. In theory, there is only one copy of the requested book in the city, however, the problem is that the author does not want to sell it, so the school cannot reach its own copy of the book, or its own copy of the author's work. The minister laughs, and by that I conclude that these remarks are justified. (Zarko Obradovic, from the scene: You just said he died. ) You have books for which there is a need, whose authors are alive, and unfortunately you have books for which there is a need whose authors are dead. In this case I'm talking about, the author, the rest of his soul, died, is gone. So the school can't get that author's copy of the book from him, it can't get it on the market because all the copies are sold out. This fellow citizen who has one copy of the book won't sell it. The school only has the ability to borrow a book from the owner, but only then do the school and its library expect real torment. First, they have to get the author's consent. Since the author is gone, they must find his legitimate heirs. When they finish the hard work, if they can agree on copyright fees, they have to pay the copyright fee first, and only afterwards do they approach the realization of what started this whole loop, to photocopy the book in three copies. The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation, the argument is long, so I'll only read two sentences. It says – therefore, the amendments are in article 14. The bill proposes conditions under which the authorial work can be multiplied for the needs of libraries, archives, educational institutions, so that the multiplication of works without permission and without payment of compensation does not endanger the legitimate, or economic interests of the author. What economic interests of the author, if it is one or two or three copies of the book in this case. Secondly, there is no threat to the economic interests of the author, because the rest of this attitude clearly stands – if these institutions have no intention of achieving direct or indirect property benefits, then you have set a clear limit. I don't understand why you're complicated by this provision, if the work is multiplying from its own specimen. The next explanation of why you rejected this amendment – it is justified and legitimate interest of the author to buy his work in legal sales flows, so that the author of the purchase of the piece has a certain material satisfaction. In this case, it's not in legal flows, it's not in sales, it's not in the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59590	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Mr. Minister, no more amendments. Would you like to speak to the MPs? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59591	Thank you. I spoke to both the Committee and yesterday in the principle debate and today, you have seen these changes that, I say, we have foreseen amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. A significant part of these rights is very much about solving some of the issues that the practice has shown. A significant part is related to a part of the law relating to copyright restrictions, to take that one step forward. My colleague Mladenovic asked several times, and it really seemed to me to the Committee that we explained this question to him, but here I am hearing again today that he did not get the right answer. I don't know if Mladenovic will be happy with the answer or not, but if you look at Article 39, paragraphs 1 and 2, it's clear why certain compensation is paid, because I don't believe anyone would import blank drives if he has no intention of using them. Empty discs are mostly used for illegal music multiplication. Therefore, manufacturers and importers of blank discs pay a special fee which is a compensation to authors who suffer damage due to piracy. This is their obligation under Article 39(2), where it is said – the fee referred to in Article 1 is paid by producers of sound and visual recording devices, photocopying devices and other devices with a wire multiplication technique, manufacturers of empty sound carriers, images and text, in solidarity with them importers of the tonne and visual recording devices etc. That's the way it is in all the countries of Europe. (Bojan Mladenovic, from the post: Used to store data in the military, in your ministry... It's not the only one. That's why I mentioned these associations. They absolutely have the right to do so. (Boyan Mladenovic, from the site: Disk is empty. We don't know what's gonna happen on it. ) See the formulation – can be assumed. Don't import them just to put them somewhere, archive them, and wait for some better days, but there's a certain purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-09-0.u59592	Thank you, Minister. After we've completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. I would like to remind you that we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, so the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday 12 September 2011 starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I thank the minister and his associates for their participation in the work. I thank you all. I'll see you Monday at 11:00.
