ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51534	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, we are nine, and in order to determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are some 87 MPs in the hall, i.e. we have conditions to continue our work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in the particulars of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposer Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojčić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Vladan Jović, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ranko Vujovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Slavica Stišović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Government, and Željko Curguz, Senior Advisor at the Republic Secretariat of Law. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (specificity) Before that, allow me to inform you about the time remaining for individual parliamentary groups. The ZES parliamentary group has 86 minutes, SRS – 37 minutes, "United regions of Serbia" – 28 minutes and 48 seconds, "Forward, Serbia" – 20 minutes and 30 seconds, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica – 16 minutes, MP group – SPS-JS 18 minutes, LDP – 12 minutes and 24 seconds, "New Serbia" – seven minutes, Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS – six minutes. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia". This amendment has already been discussed. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) Mr Milos Aligrudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51535	It is simply impossible to miss an opportunity to say something about this amendment, because the amendment essentially removes this impossible situation in Article 4 of the bill. In fact, to remind us quickly, the government wants to do the following – to legalise a certain vow of silence within the government itself, in the work of the government, by prohibiting ministers and other government officials from making public views that would be contrary to the views adopted at government meetings. Excuse me, how is it possible that there are two standards in society - one for MPs and the other for government members? Both of them are public employees, both of them doing business for the state's interests. So, the MP has a free mandate that rules out the possibility of so-called. Blanko resigns to protect the interest of the citizens, and the minister has an obligation to keep none of what he thinks goes public if that would be different from that attitude adopted by the votes in the government. We don't have a cabinet system. The cabinet system was not formed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And it's not the only provision, there are still provisions here that destroy the constitutional system of the state. Therefore, this law makes it deeply anti-constitutional, and I'm surprised that this didn't fall on the Legislative Committee. So this provision needs to be thrown out, deleted from the law. And any provision that discriminates against the Minister in relation to the National Assembly, which disturbs the relationship of the Prime Minister – Minister and Government – the National Assembly. It is impossible for the Prime Minister to have certain powers in our constitutional system only the National Assembly. That's absolutely impossible. What are you trying to accomplish with this? A miracle. Here yesterday we saw for a moment a brief demonstration of that miracle, though another way, but here, that's what it would look like in the future. There's a correspondence between the Minister and the Prime Minister, we heard it yesterday, it's supposed to be the subject of some kind of formal resignation, and we can't all afternoon find out if it happened or didn't matter what it means. All afternoon we lost to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, discussing whether the minister, who sits here, resigned or not, and, if he did, what it means. That's what's amazing. I guess now that same minister, fearing a pre-law that hasn't passed yet, doesn't want to say what kind of correspondence it is, what it means and what it's made of. It would have been better if we heard it at one point here than we had three hours of waste of time yesterday afternoon. Is that possible? Can we normally work in this congregation? What does that look like? The best solution for all of us is to get out of the way and get out of this law and to remove these crazy provisions, which serve nothing but to bring down the legal order. And what you've agreed in power is what kind of political marketing you'd like to make so-called political marketing. By reconstructing the government, by ending the ministries, it just doesn't lead to anything, because the citizens of this country won't soon have the bread to eat, and you're playing political games. That's what's scariest of all here and that doesn't lead to anything. If you were smart, and it would be for your own good if the elections were as soon as possible, so we wouldn't be nagging about this kind of nonsense without talking about any stupidity that you do here leaving irreparable and difficult consequences to this country's order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51536	National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51537	I will briefly, President, after we talked about him yesterday, but here's to repeat the Serbian Progressive Party's position again and why we wrote this amendment. In our opinion, firstly, this cannot be used in a practical sense, this only serves as a scarecrow, to scare supposed members of the government, ministers and other officials. But the important thing is that it doesn't stand, I'm just going to repeat what I finished yesterday – it's important that this whole article is deleted. And I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this proposal because it is a shame for Serbia to write this in one law, especially for those who view themselves as Democrats. Because to write in the law that the government's decision must represent in public a member of the government who voted against it or was abstention, that's pointless. Well, I guess the minister who voted against has the right to explain it, and I guess the public has the right to know why he voted against a decision at the government session, even if he stayed in the minority. What difference does it make if he stayed in the minority, the public has a right to know. Therefore, as well as everything else we've heard, this amendment should be accepted by all those who are considered Democrats. It'll be on the site. If adopted like this, the whole world will be able to read what Serbia essentially writes in its laws and whether or not it is a democratic state and whether, when it adopts such a thing, it is a place in the European Union or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51538	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51539	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, I think that yesterday we have presented enough reasons why this amendment should or should not be supported and which is why we should vote in this way when it comes to the law. It certainly does not go into some democratic principles and democratic principles. Democratic principles and principles apply not only to the government, but also to political parties. We were witnessing that one MP was not satisfied with the work of his party, so he saw how he went when he criticised his party's work. I think that in this call of the Government, in this House's assembly, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but the Government of Serbia, as well as in other countries, needs a certain unity and expression of this unity both in the public and in public performances. In addition, those who are calling for democratic principles, let them look at the rules on the work of some other governments, let them look at the rules of procedure on work, let them look at the rules on the work of the European Union governments, let them look at the laws that follow the work of these governments, and see what are democratic achievements, democratic rules and democratic principles in some other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51540	Thank you. There is no basis for replication, Mr. Milivojevic has only explained his own position. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51541	A total of eight amendments have been submitted to the government's law, six of which are the SNS' "Forward, Serbia". This says that the solutions that we have foreseen in the legislative projects submitted in December, and before the adoption of the budget, which should have led to real savings, have now been translated into amendments. This amendment to Article 5 would, in fact, make real savings by reorganising the work of the president and vice presidents, because the president and vice president do not have to and should not have two cabinets, but rather one, which is both a more rational and cheaper solution than the current situation, where each of the several vice-presidents has their own cabinet, including resolution ministers who are also vice-presidents. In the refusal of this amendment, the Government answers us in the following way – the amendment is not accepted because the jobs of the Prime Minister and the Vice-President of the Government are not identical, they can be diverse, so if our solution were adopted, the Deputy Prime Minister would not have the opportunity to choose associates who would provide him with professional and administrative technical support. This is now one of the absurdities that the government gets into when it talks about making changes to save and show unity and the existence of teamwork. Is this in line with teamwork and common policy when you have even administrative and technical support divided by vice presidents, or by parties, some judgments by citizens, and I will say in figures to make this amendment look effective, that it is applied. According to our proposal, from which this amendment came, the minister would have been 12 instead of the current 25, meaning less for 13. The vice president, who now has four, should only be one, means less than three. Instead of the current 24, the ministry would be 12, which means 24 services would be less, because each ministry has a service - general and financial. There would be less 13 ministerial and four vice-presidential cabinets, meaning 17 cabinets less. Now you have 68 state secretaries, and according to our proposal, there would be only 12 deputies, which means 56 state secretaries less. Since each of the 24 offices and 17 cabinets has a boss, that would be 41 heads down, and each ministry has a secretary, which means 12 secretaries less, and each minister and vice president has three special advisers, which means there would be 36 advisers less. As collected in figures, this means that 170 officials, I repeat for those who are making noises and not to hear – 170 officials and service heads, whose only gross salaries are over 200,000 dinars per month, on average per worker, or annually not less than four million euros, and to add all other costs of phone, office, official vehicles, secretary, travel etc. So, according to the SNS proposal, the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary club, if it had been said of saving and reducing the government, the effects would have been four million euros a year and 170 officials less. However, according to the government's proposal, as you can see, it is that the government wants to restrict the right to public entry, and thus interprets teamwork, and the fact that it has no common policy and common objectives, tries to translate savings into a whole other field. I'm going to add one more, I mean a really crucial observation to this bill, which is that, while all the party champions are trying to talk about the economy, they're actually gathering around them the magma of research into the mood and the hopes of the citizens. They gather political action theorists around them and explore the science and practice of affecting consciousness, not how to improve the situation in the economy. Only those who create the news are also paid for, not proposals for a solution to the problem. By refusing to discuss our bill, which means real savings, this is confirmed by the majority of the congregation, and we are all talking about a better future together. We are talking about a better future, and we are showing the citizens Podokin villages, a development that is not there, leading people from hope to hope, delaying rebellion, or elections. Rate how useful this is right now and please, this is your last chance to show that, by adopting our amendment and Article 5a, you really want to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51542	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51543	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens watching this transfer, I'll use these seven minutes, so this time I'll give Mr. Minister a chance, because last time for business reasons he couldn't answer any questions. Of course, the subject of my discussion will be this Article 26a, where it is said that state secretaries, ministers and all should represent the government's opinions and views. As a party official, I know in principle how difficult some decisions are made and within the party, and I support that, but how will you, Mr. Minister, explain to the people (you won't be sure, because I don't accept this) that, if one minister rebels and, say, thinks there's no need for the price of the bread to be 70 dinars, and all the rest of you think you should, that one should be silent and not say it? It seems to me that you are introducing one-ways into a multipartial system at a small door. So you're enough of yourself and within the ruling coalition. Knowing you, your correctness and your expertise... I'm telling you the truth. I can't imagine Mr. Markovic, who without a resignation, that seems to be the solution, to accept some of the things that are, say, the price of 70 dinar bread, and that no one can explain what it is and how it is, and we all know that it's because of the monopoly of these tycoons that are now selling these chains and, instead of being seized by the companies, to repay their debts, they are allowed to take hundreds of millions of euros. Since we are full of Europe's mouth, as far as I can see, in this House, Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, on the back of this proposal of the Government Act, it says: "A declaration of compliance with the regulations of the European Union"; it says that the authorised legislator of the rules is the Government, the processor – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government; the parameters to whom you have called, well, let's say, under point 4) reads, "If there are no relevant EU rules with which it is necessary to ensure compliance, to establish that fact". This is bold, but you are palely saying: "There are no relevant EU rules with which it is necessary to ensure compliance with the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act." So, this provision that you are bound by all State Secretarys, Assistant Ministers or Ministers to think as one, as Prime Minister, which I cannot believe will come true... Let's say, the Democratic Party's main committee, where more than half of the government, where the President of the Republic is, brings one opinion to the government, because President Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, leads foreign policy and has much more authority than the President of the Republic, then I wonder whose policy you will be leading. I cannot believe that you in the Government will think differently, and unanimously, unanimously of what you have brought to the General Committee, and I call on you, since you yourself have said that there are no relevant EU rules to ensure the consistency of the proposal, to tell us, at least orally, who you have consulted with. Since a colleague from the ruling coalition here said to look at the laws of other European countries, how they arranged it, and here you yourself wrote that there are no such regulations within the EU, did you look up to Cambodia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Egypt, Tunisia? Which country did you look up to and where you found that all ministers had to think the same or that they had to represent what the government's position was? I understand, as a party official, that we have been arguing all night, that we are voting, but that the next day we represent all of what was a majority position, it can pass for one party, but in the Government, Mr. Minister, there are many life decisions that cost the standards and lives and health of millions of citizens of this country. Is there right for one minister to keep quiet about 20 million euros spent money for imaginary (open now I say everybody knows that) swine flu? I do not need to remind you of the position of the Minister of Health of the Republic of Poland (it is a very powerful and very strong state), which she said in direct transmission – while I am the Minister of Health, no Polish will receive the vaccine. And he didn't take it. Here, a tycoon took 6-7m euros. And what if it happens again? Make something up and you'll all be quiet? As far as I know you and your career from the president of the municipality to the day-to-day, I don't think you'll be able to comply with this provision and that it's sincere and not represent it here, but you're just trying to intimidate, by one legal form, some ministers who are a little more free-minded and who are going to say what they think, which is in the interest of Serbian citizens. How do you explain... ? I have to do this again, really. I thought, and while I was a member of the ruling coalition, I knew whether in the government, whether there are EU representatives from the EU on the spot, on our journey, already much longer than we expected, towards the EU, people give consent and say, of course, whether or not someone liked it – if you want to join in an organisation for both personal and national benefits, that is, you have to accept those rules. And here you've written well that there are no proper regulations of the European Union. I see this only as a violation of EU rules, because I do not believe, Mr Markovic, that this exists in one EU member state as well. Both in the European Commission and in the political councils, it would be sanctioned for one government within the EU to pass such a regulation, that what is passed on to the government must all be represented. I understand if it were some kind of official, state or military secret, and some reasons that concern the lives and standards of millions of citizens in Serbia that you all keep your mouth shut, first of all, I don't believe. Break the law, the people will forgive you. Therefore, if there is any amendment from your colleagues, accept the amendment and throw this out, so as not to embarrass ourselves as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51544	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 5b be added after article 5. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51545	By adding Article 5b, we have tried to precisely regulate the conflict of interest for members of the Government, where we have proposed that you adopt that a member of the Government cannot be in another public office in the bodies of a public agency or other public authority holder, etc., nor that he performs an act that is incompatible with the duties of a member of the Government, nor that he creates a possibility of conflict of interest with his other functions, affairs or private interests. You didn't have a lot of trouble turning down this amendment. You said it was settled by other laws and that in Article 11. The government law applies system law in the area of preventing conflicts of interest and fighting corruption. Just because these system laws are not applied and we have a conflict of interest in practice, we wanted the amendment to define it precisely this way. And not only did you not want to solve it in this part when we talk about the government, but even when the minister, who has now become an MP, did not inform the Assembly, and RIK was obliged to inform us whether Mr Dinkic, like the former minister, was relieved of functions that are incompatible with the parliamentary function – some of them are likely to stop the ministerial mandate after the automaticism and cease, and they are probably indisputable, but we can only assume that – and you expect us to believe that Article 11. The government law, which prescribes a systemic solution from the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, respects. Why do I insist on this? It is simply not sustainable for you to have public agencies and bodies that exercise public authority and by law empower the minister to be, for example, the chairman of the Civil Aviation Directorate Council and control himself, or oversee himself as the minister of the area. You have a case that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development (I'm not talking about man and personality right now, I'm talking about function) is also the President of the Development Fund, which he needs to control. So, you don't even apply this system law where you prevent a conflict of interest that isn't possible, but is obvious, but even in the Bill on Government, you bring together the role of Prime Minister and Minister in one person and by saying "most of us have passed the law" you think everything is possible to apply. Which is neither fair nor logical, which is not realized, in fact, nor control or control of the exercise of functions from the framework of that public authority, you are not very interested in it. You simply say, "It's by law, guilt is unproved, man is required" and point. And I will repeat it a hundred times: it was unproved by both Janjusevic and Kolesar, not caught with suspicion that their fingers were in the honey, but with money in the account, so they were released for lack of proof. And here you create conditions for corrupt roads and abuse of public interest for private purposes. And this is not marginal corruption, these are the conditions for creating real corruption, which is why we all suffer criticism that corruption comes from the top of society and that's where it needs to be cut down. Why don't you take the opportunity to stop it right now? I really appeal to you that, by adopting the amendment to Article 5 as a 5b, where we intervene on Article 26, you should adopt with awareness that this should apply not only to you, as a government that will continue for a short time, but to all future governments. And one more, please. Out of memory, no one lives, not from former glory, not from an ugly memory of defeat. Let us turn to the present, learn lessons from what is the past of all of us, and victory and defeat, and in the interest of progress we learn to forget ugly, and remember knowledge and good lessons. And when I say this - no, this is not a demagogy, some others helped you lose your day yesterday on whether or not you are competent to discuss the law – let us adopt laws that will really mean saving and more effective government. Show the citizens you want what you're talking about. I honestly can't believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51546	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51547	I'll speak within our time. Simply, I was the Deputy Prime Minister in which Zoran Janjusevic also served for a time and in which Nemanja Kolesar served as Prime Minister's cabinet chief for a time. Mrs. Tabakovic, it may be in your interest that we all forget the ugly stuff, but it's absolutely not in ours. It is in ours to learn something based on the ugly one and that those who are uglyly responsible for it are obliged to take responsibility for such a thing. You have come a long way from the Serbian Radical Party to the 'Swedish Progressive Party', but since you mentioned two people, it is very important to tell this society the truth – that slanders, intrigues, plots and criminalisation have been destroyed and Zoran Djindjic, to mark tomorrow the eighth anniversary of the death, both his government and politics. Both Kolesar and Janjusevic were not released because there was no evidence, but on the contrary – because after a few years, the prosecution and the courts of the country were freed from political pressure and established evidence. They did not earn their money by roasting some expensive brandy in the village near Kragujevac. Ask the judiciary for reasons for suspending the proceedings against them, because it was part of a political coup. The theme is to the same extent as Article 5 of the theme to mention Janjusevic and Kolesar as members of the government where I was vice president. Perhaps it is the manner of others not to take responsibility for what they have done in the past, and I am pleased to take it and I am obliged to explain it, because we cannot act the way most of this Parliament behaves. Yesterday was not our whim, Mr Markovic and Mrs Comic. Yesterday was not an expression of our revolt, but an attempt to establish order in this institution, if not in someone else's. The problems that marked our meeting yesterday must not be problems that will become the rule of Parliament's work. In order to prevent such a thing, we need individuals who will assume the responsibility that comes from their function, the willingness to recognize the weight of the state of the country, but also the fact that those who are most responsible for this situation cannot bear that burden alone. While you, Mr. Markovic, are telling us in Parliament that you cannot introduce us to the nature of your relationship with the Prime Minister, the same Prime Minister is issuing a statement informing us that you have resigned, which is travelling to Parliament and will likely arrive when we declare this law. More honesty, more willingness to co-operate, dialogue and respect for arguments, and we will, I believe, come out of the problems in which the country is presently. But not by the way that you started yesterday or as Mrs Tabaković suggests - that we forget what is ugly, so that we believe that everyone else is responsible for the chaos around us except those who are among us. You can't do that, especially not on 11 March 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51548	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51549	Between the ugly memories of a difficult past and evidence of theft, there is an apparent difference. I'm not talking about a subject that I don't know about, but I'm talking about privatising cements for which the government, which was legitimate until October 24, 2000, had completely prepared everything and I know reliably, as well as those who conducted the investigation process, as well as those to whom the pressures were made to make the evidence go away. And I'm really glad that the Serbian public had a chance to hear who was defending who. I would like to say in one single sentence – for some politics is a good joke, sense, wit, fun, and for many others and for most of us, politics is a responsibility to make life for all of us better, not digging trenches between the opposition and the government of ugly memories of who is more guilty, who caused sanctions and when NATO was bombing. I've thought of those memories, and I've never been able to measure myself with anyone by justifying a bigger or smaller theft. Every theft is theft. Every theft is an economic crime, and everyone has to answer for it, and that's never the evidence to go away. I have no intention of discussing with those whose policy is entertainment and desire to invite us to reconcile with others and to argue with each other. I don't want anyone to argue with me with my neighbors, friends, political inextricators. It can't affect me, but don't even influence voters like that, but let's do something in a constructive atmosphere for the government that needs to be less and more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51550	Time. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51551	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I don't think Commissioner Tabakovic understood me for a moment. In 2011, this parliamentary group (let the DS speak for itself) does not come to mind that, after the break-in that this country fell into after 12 March 2003, once again allow for falsification of history. One party can falsify itself, but no member of the government, Zoran Djindjic, was either a thief or a criminal. For years, the state has been involved in criminalising every single person in the government in order to criminalise a single policy. Both Janjusevic and Kolesar (for years I have not seen them) were both released before the courts of Vojislav Kostunica in 2007. Not in front of the courts that we formed in judicial reform, but in 2007. I agree you don't need to dig party trenches, but don't bury us in those you put us in with your politics 20 years ago. Order and facts. Be whatever you want with your neighbors, but there is politics here in Parliament and there are political principles. These political principles oblige those who destroyed this country to take responsibility for such a thing and say they spoke falsely, not to say that Seselj forced them to do what they were doing, so Seselj cheered Tommy Nikolic with a dictionary that came out here on the street and told Zoran Djindjic what would wait for him seven days after the rally they organised, expecting Bagzi to do that job that was done seven days later by Zvezdan Jovanovic. It's political facts. Let's go back to this debate, but forget the government of Zoran Djindjic and every single individual in the government, because we will not allow the day before 12 March to once again do what was done before 12 March 2003. How many people in this country should be killed to question political responsibility for those who have created preconditions for such a thing? He can't, as far as we're concerned. As for others, let them speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51552	National MP Milos Aligrudic. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51553	I'll use MP time for one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51554	Mrs. Tabakovic, you can do one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51555	Mr. Jovanovic, I have one word to tell you. Defend yourselves, do not defend the dishonest Djindjic. I don't defend myself to others. Everyone talks about themselves. I'm done talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51556	Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51557	These talks are great, but it would be good for us to get back on the subject, because what was seven or eight years ago might be interesting for the coffee shop discussion, but what we find interesting here is what is happening today, what kind of power we have in Serbia, and what legal proposals that power is providing us here in Parliament -- which proves to be a full privatisation of the public sector, not in financial terms, but in terms of privatising political power. Look at the evidence we have here. In this Article 5, which is mentioned here (I don't know what the word is, but I know what the essence of the story is), there is a proposal that tells the Secretary-General that the mandate ceases to be appointed by the new Secretary-General of the Government, by resignation or resolution. Whoever doesn't understand what this is about, I have to explain it to him. The term of office shall end to the Secretary-General of the Government, under current law, at the end of the term of office of the Government, with the resignation or resolution. It is now suddenly said that the regime of termination of the government secretary general's mandate can be a new one. How is that possible? How can you set up a new Secretary-General for Government if you haven't resolved the previous one? But I know why you wrote this. Because for some reason, internally, you have the need not to resolve the current Secretary-General of the Government – it sounds ugly – so you would set up a new Secretary-General of the Government and be previously considered as being resolved. Well, guys, it can't be like that, there's no way this... I mean, this can go away, you have 126, you have a minimal majority, and you have a relative majority to pass the law, but how can you make such proposals? Do you have an elemental sense of shame? Do you have an elementary sense of responsibility when you're doing something? How can you do something like this? You have that power, the Prime Minister has that power, the government has the power to set up and resolve whoever they want. But a big deal, as the Americans would say. Why don't you do that? Why are you harassing the National Assembly? Why are you harassing Serbian citizens, that their representatives have to adopt this kind of nonsense? Why are you doing this? It's a current situation. That's what we put up with. Because you make everything a circus and chaos, because you make everything marketing, because you don't care what people think about all this, because you buy time. In the name of what? On behalf of the autumn, what will come in the autumn – EU candidacy? What black EU bid under you? What black candidacy? What are you guys talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51558	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I say a few sentences about the amendment that we submitted to Article 6 for the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind myself of a sad fact that on this day five years ago in The Hague tribunal, a murder was committed against former RS President and SRJ Slobodan Milosevic, and I must admit that... The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, throws it away. No, I'm not gonna ask anyone if he's defending Sloba. I simply think that, at the moment that Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is receiving a conversation with Tihomir Purda, a man accused of war crimes in Vukovar, we think that we here in Serbia too have the right to say that one man was killed just because his human right to be treated adequately and only because the UN tribunal's prosecution failed to prove guilty on a charge written here in Belgrade and which was politically falsified. I also have to say, I find this debate between William Montgomery's former and current pullovers very interesting. He brought one to power in 2000, and others intend to rule after the next election. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Who was his full? Who was his full? Mr. Jovanovic, a book recently published by Mr. William Montgomery, "When the ovations shut up". (Kedomir Jovanovic: There he did not say I was full.) ) There he said that he had given you mobile phones that the Serbian police could not listen to, that you went on instruction in Budapest, that he had provided you with several million dollars, that he had managed to corrupt certain people in the closest environment of Slobodan Milosevic and, in practice, on October 5th 2000, a political revolution was carved by William Montgomery, a man who is a public secret that he is a CIA official. However, as regards amendments to Article 6, this is not the first time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been playing with Article 196 in the draft law to refer to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes when one law enters into force. So, according to Article 196. The Constitution, laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and may enter into force earlier if they exist, according to the Constitution, particularly the justified reasons set out in their adoption. What are the particularly justified reasons for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend the Government Act on the day of the publication of this law in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"? These reasons are very ghastly stated in the bill: 'The lack of this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the Government and the authorities of the state administration. Namely, the proposed solutions are directly directed towards creating a legal framework that will ensure more effective government work. It is necessary to apply the provisions of this law without delay, in order to create legal preconditions for more effective work of the Government and the authorities of the state administration." Are those particularly justified reasons? So, are you taking care of the style of the text of the constitutional norm? It's not the Constitution that says "justified", it's "especially justified reasons". These particularly justified reasons are described here in the draft law in a political sentence that means nothing – in order to ensure more effective work of the Government. Does this mean that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic since July 2008, when it was established, so far has not been effective? You claimed it was, that it was the best possible government for Serbia at that time, that it was made up of experts, that it would do neither I know what good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here, at the beginning of 2011, you yourself admit that this government is not effective. So what are the adverse consequences that the Republic of Serbia and its citizens may have if the Government Act, or its amendments and additions, enters into force as prescribed by the Constitution? Why did you not specify what these adverse consequences were, but simply gave a flat-rate finding – there will be adverse consequences for the government and the government authorities? In what way? What is involved in these harmful consequences? What's going to happen after the Republic of Serbia and its citizens? And this is not the first time the Serbian government has asked the Assembly for daily political reasons to enter into force not as prescribed by the Constitution, but the next day after the publication or, as in the case of the Government Act, on the day of its publication. There was still no need to say that the law came into force the day before it was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Here's the thing you haven't done yet, even though you're introducing some provisions that don't really have a lot of legal or political sense. That the government will be effective because you oblige ministers to come forward as members of the government, not as private persons, we can understand that. But it's not a norm for the Government Act. It is a business norm on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And how is the Minister in the Government not politically free and the alleged MP is politically free? It turns out that MP groups are not collectives representing a clear political will that has experienced their rehearsal in parliamentary elections, but that the parliamentary group is a mere collection of individuals, free shooters, who can do whatever they want in Parliament, steal other people's mandates and then respect you for being economic criminals. And they're legal criminals. You steal money, they steal mandates. What's the difference? There's no difference, the thief's a thief, so he stole the money, stole the mandates, stole the gold watch, the ashtray, the pen, anything. So if you want the government to be effective, to be politically uniform, to act as a team, we have nothing against it, but why one standard for the government and another standard for Parliament? Will you allow the government to have the minister elected on a proposal from one political party, and in the meantime change his political orientation and become a member of another party, say the SRS? Will such a man be able to sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia? It won't work. Then why do you tolerate it in the Parliament? In what EU parliament does someone go to the polls as a candidate for one party and get a mandate as a candidate for the party and then, overnight, change their political confidence, become a bigger European than you, now seven and a half thousand dollars pay William Montgomery to represent his character and Sunday in the United States, and you allow him to form a parliamentary club? What are those standards? One standard applies to Parliament, there is theft allowed, and the other is for the government – there are ministers to act as a team. And why don't MP groups act like teams? How is it possible to form in the Serbian Parliament a party that did not participate in the elections and who accuses you of stealing, and does the same? It's just that they're not in a position to steal people's money yet, but that's why they're in a position to steal mandates, and you're tolerateting it, and you're trying to convince us that by amending the Government Act, the government will be more effective. He won't. We told you yesterday – if someone does not possess political authority by himself, there is no law that can artificially inhale that political authority. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, with all due respect, may be a good economic expert, I don't know, I'm not an economist, but realistically, man is not a strong political figure. The government, that's what the word itself says, is a state body that rules opportunities in the country. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have opportunities in the country? He doesn't rule. You've completely lost the ends of state policy out of your own hands. One minister says one thing today, tomorrow he says the other. In March you will receive Putin, in June you will receive NATO representatives, and tomorrow you will receive representatives of an independent Kosovo, because you do not know what the policy of this country is. You're a little American, you're a little Russian, you're a little Croatian, you're a little anti-Croat, you're a little anti-Siptare, so you're a little Russian, you're a little small for Dick Marty, you're a little against the Croats, you're a little against the Shiptare, so you're a little bit for Dick Marty, so you're not a little bit, so you're not a little bit, and you mix up the debate on Dick Marty's report with the work of public enterprises, and when it comes down, there's no government policy of the Republic of Serbia, there's no policy of the Republic of Serbia. And it doesn't need to change the Government Act, it has to change the government's policy. The government's policy is bad, and internal and external, and these changes to the Government Act will accomplish nothing. The government law is bad and scandalous that a bad Law on Government takes effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51560	Eight minutes, of which four minutes and 30 seconds are the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group, which has used time, as well as the rest of the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the right to reply, and the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundžija and the People's Parliament of Jorgvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51561	A few facts. I think that's necessary, given what my predecessor said. Too much has been written about the most important political events in our recent history. The person you mentioned, Mr. Martinovic, is certainly one of the figures that are in line with those who offered their interpretations in a trendy way and are absolutely untrue. For everything Mr. Montgomery wrote in that book, I can only conclude that he brought electricity and wheel to Serbia. To appreciate people based on their surroundings... We are not a party that has any problem with what we have ever done in our political life and we absolutely take responsibility for everything. Finally, our political biographies speak well enough about our character. On October 5th, Mr. Martinovic was not paid by cell phone or training in Budapest. I didn't know you at the time, but I knew your president then, and he knows the truth about it very well. As for Ambassador Montgomery's new political career, I would leave it to the public to judge, again on the basis of that simple truth -- to judge people by estimating their environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51562	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51563	I appeal to Article 104, and I ask the chairman that, although I know it is not that simple, he takes care of what is allowed and what is not allowed to be spoken for by the congregation speaker. The indictments were written, unfortunately, in Srebrenica, Vukovar, Krtkovci and other sites, written for victims who remained there and no one from Belgrade could write them. Did someone in Belgrade write them by managing the processes and by leading the policy that led to these sites, and who might be responsible, ask yourself. And the fifth of October, no one on the outside organized. Once again, you organized it because you ruled the country in a tragic way, and the citizens decided that it couldn't do it anymore. If it wasn't for the intention to steal the election, maybe October the Fifth wouldn't have happened, because people believed that the voice force was what would save them from a policy they didn't want to accept, and I don't think it's fair to hundreds of thousands of citizens who really took things into their own hands and said -- our votes are now our policy weapon that we want to lead. I think it's an insult to those citizens, too. If any story about the prime minister's murder compares to a barman's story, then I'm afraid it's the ones who celebrated the day he was killed and who received as a hero in his killer's cabinet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51564	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, right of replica, and MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51565	For the first and last time, I'm going to comment on the theft of the mandate. I don't engage in replicas, I'm here dealing with parliamentary work the way I understand it, but I don't believe there's a lawyer in the world, no legal knowledge, no lawyer (and not even Gary Spence, one of the most famous American lawyers) who could prove the existence of an opportunity to steal himself or to steal his own. Tomislav Nikolic cannot steal his mandate, because he has earned it for many in the party. Jorvanka Tabakovic has been on the Serbian political scene since December 1992, has had her authority, her own-command, and according to the programme that Jorvanka Tabakovic, i.e. I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I still talk to the SRS today. I can't steal my mandate. I've earned it fair and square, like everything in my life. Last comment on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51566	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51567	The lady who spoke a little bit has a really great authority. Even more authority has the vice president of the "wedding and funeral party", academician Gojko Radic. He's the only one who's earned his term. It's a miracle of one's mind. First, the resignations signed by all SRS deputies were stolen. That's what Mr. Styrofoam said, but since he became a political adult only in the 56th year of life, then he began to forget what he said ten days ago. In one place he says, "I forgot my resignations, and then he says, "Here's my resignations in my pocket." So two completely different statements. That's what you know, the ones who kept their mandates on the board of directors. You from the DS, from the G17 plus, from the SPS, who knew the resignations were stolen, even though you own those same blank resignations yourself, you knew they were stolen blank resignations and you didn't do anything to stop it. You've made one completely paranoid situation possible. The lady who spoke before me has the habit of saying – the MP group "Forward, Serbia" of the Serbian Progressive Party. Go to the official web presentation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it says -- the MP group "Forward, Serbia" of the Serbian Radical Party. In what European Parliament does he have it? In what democratic parliament does he have it? It is only in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic is concerned, here I, Mrs Kolundzija, admit everything, that he is also responsible for Srebrenica, and for the Krtkovci, although there are no tombs there, and for all possible crimes that took place in the former Yugoslavia, but tell me, please, is someone responsible for the crimes against Serbs. Tell me who was responsible for that. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, who lives in an apartment where Serbs lived before 1990, receives a man accused of war crimes in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51568	People's MP, the time available for replica was used. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51569	Let's get back to the amendment. That's right, Mrs. Kolundjia, now you'll see, I must praise you again. I don't know what's wrong with me this week, if I had something to drink on Monday, so something's wrong with me, but I just need to praise the DS. Let me remind you, today, five years since the judicial ruling, the judicial death of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague tribunal has been committed. Just so you know, to remind yourself that on June 28, 2001, you all delivered it from DOS, thanks to Montgomery, all of you having any relationship with Montgomery. Is Montgomery right in his book, I don't know. Is Tim Marshall right in his book, I don't know. If you don't like him, sue him. You've got a court of law, so you've got to convict him there for lying. There. So it's about a member who regulates when it comes to this amendment and the addition of the Government Act. Since you can't say what these are particularly justified circumstances, which is why it has to be before the Constitution has laid down, which is the eighth day of the day of publication, then you've given us the space to decide differently why. So we can conclude that whoever wrote the bill knows in advance that such a law will be passed. He doesn't need time from publication to prepare for law enforcement. He's ready, waiting like a stuck gun. It is about the school of Mr. Gaše Knezevic, who says – we have prepared and applied the draft of the law. So, the law doesn't have to, it's political will. And as the political will for this future composition of your government seems, that's what my Nishis would say – we're barely getting together. It will be G17 plus – 17 ministries plus shared personalities, which are both in ministries and in some functions in the government. We can't influence that. You have 126 plus Montgomery here. All right, now you're mad. Lin Montgomery is a very important factor in our country. She works at Karic's, you know. She worked on BK TV, Mrs. Lin Montgomery worked at BK University. They stayed here, with their soul and heart and pocket, tied together. Montgomery has a security agency, you know. He's got more security agencies. And these 800,000, I don't know, they'll probably get a raise. It's worth it, brother. There's nothing to it. You see, some events go their way. Now, Mrs. Comic, do you know why it takes eight days for the law to come into force? To get the public ready. It's not a regulation that only binds the government, but it's got to let the audience know what's in it. Secondly, when this selector Pijon invites our players abroad to play for the team, and he gives them eight days to prepare, to train, to make a team. Who will be the captain, who will be the goalie, who will be the left, the right back, the looser, who will spoil the game like Gatuzo, who will score goals, must act as a team. If it doesn't work as a team, someone's going out right now, it's changing. It's perfectly normal. Where a collective organ is present, everyone must breathe with one soul. This government will be a team of 20 and something. So there's going to be 17 players (it's some new sporting discipline) plus... Now, as long as it's gonna be plus, we don't know that, but it doesn't matter. It's gotta be a team. The coach of that team can't let one of them play on the team with the goal of giving him a goal of the opponent's side, and the other one can obstruct the game to get our side naked. The captain of the team needs to seduce the order. In the English Parliament there's that whip, you know, party, just walking around to see who votes. Like Mrs. Kolundjia, which does well her function when she controls whether they're all together, whether they've all pushed the cards, whether they've all voted for it. But I don't understand why you're putting up with the amendments. Here's the deal that this law will be configured like this and you don't need to write amendments. Why? When you write the amendment, you demonstrate dissatisfaction with the promoter, you are not satisfied with what kind of promoter he is. That's the definition of parliamentaryism. I'm looking at this next law, you've written an amendment on every member, my people. I don't know what you did there, Markovic. How can attitude change – the ruling coalition in the government and the ruling coalition in the Assembly? So, it takes eight days for the team to play, so that the team can run out on the ground, catch up with the piled-up problems, they can solve the problems they've encountered, solve their problems. So these now have to solve all these problems that these have done in two and a half years, because that's the only way this type of construction works in Germany 9 is justified. You must now urgently rescind what has been ruined. It's Kramer versus Kramer. So, you have to fix it because they're getting closer, not so much of the election, but the loans need to come, the money needs to come, and where the money is, that's where you want to be, to get skinny about it. It is also necessary, then, to make a statement 'in accordance with European regulations', but the law with the statement 'there is no obligation to comply with European regulations'. I never attacked you when you wrote – we will not comply with European regulations. I applaud you right now. Ever since you wrote that you haven't translated into foreign language, that these controllers of yours are tortured to control what you're doing, my heart is in place, let me tell you right now. So, Mrs. Comic, we're here in the Assembly made up of teams. You see, we have team ZES, we have team SRS. The ZES team can change players, and we're not allowed to. So if we have a player who doesn't represent the attitudes of the SRS, we can't change him, we have to put up with him sitting with us and giving us auto goals. And with you, it is wiped clean immediately. And there's going to be that law on the selection of MPs, so I'm going to give you a retrospective since 1990 who's been stealing all the mandates of a coma and why. Of course, I take great risk that if I criticize you this much, I will reduce the popularity of my party and raise the popularity of your parties in power to extreme heights, given that all polls say that everyone is looking forward to seeing you in their home. You are so beautiful, dear, so defined, you daily show that you are bleeding for the Republic of Serbia, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're giving up... You see, Tadic went to Japan, killed by an earthquake right away, eight degrees Richter's. If he'd continued across America, then there for a month in Chicago, he'd be fine. But he's only there for this. He will no longer wonder what the government is like. Although we have this semi-presidential system and we don't have an office government, but we have something a little different, but how about these things that I talk to you about when Mrs. Comic shakes the teacher's right that he doesn't have a clue to interpret the provision? Probably everything he dropped on the exam there, out of the elementary ignorance of the right, that Rangelovic was wrong, those children could use a transcript of yesterday's National Assembly session and ask for a retrial and the dean to kick Rangelovic out of Law School. Shame on him. He will interpret it better than Gordana Komic. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, I hope you won't punish me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51570	Ten minutes have been used by the MP's group. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word. Given that he is currently the last registered speaker and this is the last amendment, he would be followed by the conclusion of a search in particular. If anyone else wants a word, they can answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51571	It is truly amazing how many violations and obstructions of the law take place in this so-called process of government reconstruction. And this member now being discussed is only in a series of events and those committed by the ruling coalition that are related to this farce called reconstruction. It began with that letter that we received from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic that a violation of the law was allowed and that, simply, he felt that the Constitution and the law should not be respected in any way, and that the Assembly, in fact, brought itself into a situation that, by passing the law, offends itself. It will enter anals and political and legal history. Then yesterday, we heard that resignation ministers could represent the government of the Republic of Serbia without the public being allowed to know about the correspondence between the ministers and the Prime Minister on public matters. If it was a private matter, we might be able to understand, but the public matter needs to know. And then today, we have reason to believe that this law should come into effect without delay because it will have adverse consequences, because there will be urgent conditions and that it is justified. Yesterday we heard that the Minister's right to represent the Government is linked to the fact that this reconstruction is, in fact, a natural, economic and technical accident. That's what the Government Act says. Both the Minister and the Government are probably aware of what an accident this is and, in that sense, have the opportunity to break the law. This reconstruction is a violation of the law and this government will not be legal. Besides not being legitimate, because there's no support in the people, it won't even be legal. But it all seems that Mirko Cvetkovic would be the finance minister, which is the essence. In addition to all the failures, the lacks in politics that we talked about in the previous three years, we are now witnessing the collapse of another institution by the ruling coalition, since all others have been well brought down, the collapse of the government institution, to make the Prime Minister a minister of finance. That's what he wanted. He was the finance minister in one government, he probably wanted, when the government was formed in 2008, to re-become and now his wish has come true. She has a famous scene in the film "Masters, Masters", when Zoran Radmilovic addresses the school collective and, while the literature professor recites the song "Masters, Masters", he says, "Man wanted to be a master, and here's what school does to him". That's the way it is in this case. Mirko Cvetkovic wanted to be a master, i.e. The finance minister, but they let him be prime minister and there was chaos. The fundamental problem of this whole law and the entire government is that political decisions will not be made or will be made even less in Germany 11, in the cabinet, but, of course, as has been the case since July 2008, will be made in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, at Andric's wedding. There is then a question and political responsibility for the situation in the country. There is no one who has no political influence in either the party or the public or the government to be politically responsible. He who is the leader of the government's party is politically responsible. It's like that in every normal state, and that's how things are supposed to work. If the government is to be an institution, then the leader of the largest party should be prime minister. In some other countries, when elected president of the Republic, people retreated to preserve integrity and have authority. Now, you're going to give the Prime Minister, who hasn't performed the coordination function so far, the decisions, another portfolio. So he won't be doing his job at all. You have one strong coalition leader who has left the government. In the government, in fact, of the three coalition parties, Ivica Dacic is the only one left as prime minister. So, two party leaders you have outside the government. Does anyone in this country think political decisions will be made in government? Of course not. When we listened to the Prime Minister in "The Imprint of the Week", when we asked, "Do you know that the pressures of individual ambassadors have been put on the shifts of some ministers? "he said, "no one asked me." Of course, the man told the exact truth. Why would anyone ask him if they knew he couldn't make that decision? They asked somewhere else. It's the essence of the crisis. The crisis is that you've put a prime minister with no political authority and now you're burdening him with another function. And the crisis will deepen, and the government will weaken further, and there will be further problems within the government, fighting and conflict, and will continue until the political system and the strongest political party and its leader takes office. You, by creating this in 2008, generated all these political problems. With this amendment of the law, this farce of reconstruction, which you bring with the violation of the law, you carry on. You created total political chaos and disabling an important and serious institution. At the end of the debate on the Government Act, where the government has no representative to represent it, so the government has no representative to discuss the government, it is best, because of everything you've done in the last three years, because of the political chaos you've made, to resign, to discuss the elections and to give your citizens their judgment on what you've done, and not to explain to us after three years that it's been great, just this year, and it will be the best possible thing for us to do, just to get that candidacy. The election and the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51572	Six minutes and 30 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51573	Dear Secretary-General, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, if "New Serbia" has been accused in previous years, months and mandates as an anti-European party that is not for the entry of our country of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, I will draw your attention several times in the past few years, and this is the bill on amendments to the Law on Government, even though we have tried to dissuade you several times in the past few years. So, "New Serbia", regardless of which you will vote on Monday or today, this draft government law will address the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia with the claim that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia treats women and men absolutely equally – in all affairs, including politics, in state-level representation. However, as far as I know, let me be corrected here by those who are more educated on this issue, not said – woman 30%, but said – less represented half 30%. Here, in this time, I will read to you a member by a member of the law where you will see that you have violated, although Mr Markovic, who I do not know whether he is here by chance, calls for the EU's consent to this law. I would like to see where the EU's consent exists, or the EU authorities that are in charge, so let's say -- the Prime Minister may also be a minister. We've been making amendments before, this time we haven't, not to waste any time and realizing the vainness of proposing these amendments that you won't accept. Why am I telling you this? Because I am the deputy head of a parliamentary group called New Serbia – Velimir Ilic, who only respected this regulation in this House, something that is most normal, I think, in all European countries and civilized countries, that a representative of the less represented sex is more than 30%. As far as our MP club is concerned, we have 33.33% of women. We'll try harder next time. They've shown in many cases that they're more tactful, I'm not going to say smarter, but more diplomatic, calmer. Maybe God gave them both biology and anatomy to be more talented in politics. I'm surprised the parties "for the European future" for "Europe has no alternative" didn't meet that. How is it possible that in the media that you control and you who say here that "New Serbia" is qualified as an anti-European party... ? At least that's how you could have done it, if I didn't call my boss here right now, the deputy head of Parliament clubs, that's not my intention, I don't have anything personal against them. On the contrary, I'm glad they're in those positions, but how is it possible that only "New Serbia" respected it? I don't know if it's European law, if it's European rules, if it's a European custom. I read you article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. It says, "The Prime Minister can be a minister." In our opinion, it was supposed to say - President [[President]] It's not in this law. Furthermore, Article 2 – "Article 13 adds a new position on the 3rd, which reads: 'The Vice-President of the Government may also be a minister'. Why can't the Deputy Prime Minister be a minister? So, as a party, we will also send a presentation to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and to all the European organisations that have their seats and representations in Belgrade, to make this known, and I expect you, Mrs Kolundzhija, as I see that you listen very carefully to what I'm saying, that you really plead on this problem. You have enough women, smart and beautiful, on your list, to fix what you haven't fixed in three years and to comply with European rules and to have more than a third less represented gender on your parliamentary lists. Article 26a says "Governmental members". Why didn't it say "Members of the Government"? Because we in New Serbia, whether we like it or not, have come to terms with the EU's entry, the EU's rules. If you want to be a member, or a member of an organization, you must accept the rules, and those that suit you and those that may not currently suit you or may not be in line with your party, programming or personal beliefs. Article 26a says: "Presentation of the Government's positions, and says – members of the Government, state secretaries, directors... Why didn't it say - government members, state secretary, directors of special organisations? I don't want to list them here, but each of us knows that he can count, at least as far as politics, at least 20 very successful women, not to say more successful than some men. Maybe if the government were lucky, we'd have that reconstruction on Monday, if someone had suggested a woman, maybe that government would have been better. This is how it turns out that we are in the words of Europe, or those who should be the leaders of this, who gave their coalition 'Europe No Alternative', but when we come to the field of real law enforcement and regulations, there is no such thing. In Article 5, for example, it states that Article 30 of Position 4 changes and reads – the Secretary-General of the Government's mandate ceases to be appointed as the new Secretary-General. Why don't you write in half - the Prime Minister's term ends with the appointment of a new secretary-general? How do they know he'll be the secretary general again? Well, she's the secretary-general now, and I think that's my chacan sister-in-law, Tanja Stojcevic, that's her name. She's not the secretary general, she's the secretary general. I expect the women, or members of the less-represented sex, to make this known. We don't really operate on this as a waste of party time. If you remember, we've talked about it many times and reminded you, and we haven't honked much about it, but, God, since you're still a firm "on the European course", we'll often remind you to meet your European obligations and that on your lists... It's technically possible to do. I'm a member of the Administrative Board. It's enough for one session of the Administrative Board to change these men, especially these men who no one knows the color of the voice. Here, three years goes by, half of the DS hasn't taken a word for it either. Do they really want, or is it part of party policy and tactics, to be robots here and only wait when it's 126? I don't believe it, I believe it's the same smart and intelligent people, at least as much as I am, and that they would have something to say about this. I expect that this problem I have raised, but I repeat for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I repeat, because of the media that are making a move on "New Serbia" and these days and yesterday, let them pay attention to this information. This information is not random. In NS, it was not by chance that 33%, to our pride, and I mean Serbia, our female colleagues. I think you're all okay with that, at least, if you're not in everything that I'm saying, that they've been very, very tolerant here, collegiate, and that they've honestly expressed the NS programme in the interests of Serbian citizens who support the NS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51574	Eight minutes and 50 seconds, which means the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group of seven minutes and 30 seconds and another minute and 20 seconds from the parliamentary group has been used. Five minutes and 40 seconds is available. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51575	Dear Chairman, I would like to express my admiration for the fact that this morning the predecessor really woke up as a natively sensitized person and to express my deep confidence that this would mean that he would no longer, in the most harsh and unimaginable way, insult the vice president of the National Assembly, and that his president would not insult every woman as he has ever insulted when he had the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51576	45 seconds have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51577	I hope this treats me like a replica. If what I've been saying is eight-and-a-half minutes, Mrs. Kolundzija, this is the only answer, if this is all you have to say about what I've been saying, then it's a poor alternative for European Serbia, then we're far from the EU. I ask you a question why you do not respect this principle in your MP club, why not replace the surplus of men you have there and bring women who have been waiting unjustly for three years on the list – these women have been denied for three years, you are violating European regulations – and as anyone acts here, there are sanctions and penalties. I tell you now in public, in direct transmission – for everything I am unjustly punished (although I know, nothing is wrong with me, for what that money is going for) I will pay the money – listen well to me, Mrs. Kolundjia – institutionalally or non-institutionally, to the last money, because people here are not allowed to speak. People's MPs turn off their microphones and they're not allowed to speak. Maybe I'm not proud of what I'm saying. I have both a sister and a mother and a friend and a colleague, but I need those who chair this assembly to realize that they are sitting here and someone's brothers and somebody's fathers, and not to play with their health and nerves and let them talk. We here, Mrs. Kolundjia, are not by chance. All of us, 250, represent the citizens of Serbia. And I repeat, answer the right question and essence – when will the DS Parliament Club meet the European condition and have 30% women on the list? I'm not going to say a less represented sex now, I'm going to say a woman. When are you going to do that? Please tell it to the women of the "New Serbia" and all women of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51578	Two minutes. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE MINISTRATIVES (specificities) You have received amendments, which were submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nenad Constantović, Branka Ljiljak, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Milorad Buha, Aleksandar Martinović, Tomislav Nikolić, Tomislav Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šolić, Dragan Šurštović, Neljan Šović, Žiljan Žilić, Zović, Zović, Zović, Živić, Žilić, Žović and Žaljan Žović, Žović, Žović, Žarjan Pović, Žarić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić.ić, Žalić, Žalić. You received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Đurić, Milos Radulović, Radojko Obradović, Milan Lapčević and Zoran Shami withdrew in writing the amendments they submitted together to members: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 35, 35, and 36. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51579	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in December, the SNS submitted its proposal for a law on ministries and in this debate, we will, in fact, defend our vision of what the Serbian Government should look like, as should the ministries and the fact that we believe that with 12 ministries we can fully meet the needs of the government, on the one hand, and yes, on the other hand, we can achieve serious savings. The December SNS proposal was not motivated by any personal interests, any inter-party trade and personal council, which, unfortunately, is in place today in the constitution of this government. It's a law, in our opinion, that could be universal, because we believe that the Ministry Act should not be changed every time a new government is established. This creates a lot of problems in the functioning of the executive, increases costs and creates uncertainty in the functioning of the administration. It is of paramount importance that the government, the executive authority, is finally working with one comprehensive concept, and that all of us, with an interparty agreement, as much as possible, stick to it. We are facing serious social changes, serious social reforms, public spending, public administration is in a situation that needs to be reduced, painful cuts are expected in every sense when it comes to spending funds and our society is increasingly poorer. Aware of these facts and responsibilities to the citizens of Serbia, we have proposed this concept of the ministry law. I hope that in some debate, although I am aware that you already have some inter-party arrangements, we will manage to accept at least some of these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51580	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51581	This law represents, as it always is, a political precondition for the coalition parties from the government to settle down according to the government's resolutions, for everyone to get what they agreed on and should, fortunately, serve as one technical basis for the cohesion and very good work of the government. That, however, is all we don't have in this case, because this government hasn't worked at all since 2008. It does not care about the state and national interest (anything, selling it), does not have an economic policy, which means that it does not care about the economy, does not take care of the unemployment rate, does not have any employment programme, there is no economic programme that should serve to contribute to anything that increases population standards in some period, which the government sets for itself as a period of activity. That's what you've been missing since 2008. And then, when all the forces have fallen apart, when energy has fallen to a minimum, when there are serious political problems within the government itself, which was almost before the complete collapse, then it is necessary to make one marketing strategy, to cover in a marketing way what is key and essential lack of work you do or do not do. And so, the Ministry Act actually makes one picture of the required number of ministries and the number of resources that you will share among yourselves. He's a prerequisite for the government's reconstruction. Some names are gone in the government, some new names will come next week, and all of them must somehow fit in physically and legally. This law is a prerequisite for that fitting that you're doing. What does that make sense? Absolutely nothing. The only real sense in all of this would be if this government had ceased to exist. Because a man without authority, who powers himself with the authority of Andric's crown, cannot successfully lead this reconstructed, reduced government by ministerial resources, or a larger government than this one. He can't run any government. He can't run a local community administration, let alone the government of a country. And this man, Mirko Cvetkovic, should resign. It's the only normal solution to this situation. The new government cannot form and we should go to the elections. If it is true that this state is wasting time, and it is certainly true that we have been wasting time for two and a half years, or three years, then we need not a government reconstruction, but we urgently need a new government based on new elections, which would verify a new relationship of power in Serbia according to the electoral will of citizens, not according to this chaos and circus that we have today. What do we have here in these bill proposals and how do we react to them? We've seen the number of ministries drop to 17. Anyone who hears that the number of ministries has been reduced to 17, from 20 and change, has to ask a simple question – why did you do it? Do you have an answer to the question why it was done? I don't have one, because from what it says here, I don't see any concept. Nothing's going on. We have no idea why we would believe that now a reconstructed government with a reduced number of ministries will function better than this carambo by now. There's no basis for that. What's it gonna be? Cheaper? More economical? How? Explain to us how. If anyone doesn't know, I'll explain it very simply and simply. It is not the state's cost of the number of ministries, but the way it is organised by the state administration, whether it is cheap or not. By reducing the number of ministries to 17, it doesn't mean that the number of job performers for the needs of the state administration will be smaller. Just because you're going to cut the number of ministries to 17 means you're going to cut 4-5 salaries (not even for so much, but for 3-4 salaries) and nothing more. You're not even gonna fire the secretary, 'cause they're gonna get another job. You won't even cut the number of vehicles. That's, of course, all the demagogue nonsense, what I'm saying, but it's got to be on the demagogue crap we got. I can't figure out what's being achieved by any serious amendment to this unserious bill? How do we know what the measure is? Well, we see here that everything and everything has been combined, without any reason, just for political reasons. There's no concept, there's no goal in all of this. We were thinking whether to submit some amendments, simply because of the debate, we would get two minutes each, and then we submitted some amendments, so at the last minute of that we gave up. Why? Because these amendments are pure sarcasm on what we've got, sarcasm on sarcasm, and then we end up thinking that if these amendments really stay in the process until the end, someone will get it wrong. Now they are not in the process, but we will very simply convince them, no matter what they are not in the procedure, alluding above all to the amendment we are discussing now, which is, of course, serious, making a proposal to cut from 17 to 12. It's all legitimate, but for what? Where's the target? Where's the savings? Where's the economic logic? We didn't get a single argument, except for the argument that anything good would work here. Anything that happened yesterday afternoon in Parliament, this whole dialogue between the LDP and the minister representing the government here and in some technical resignation, is about the lack of understanding of the essence, about the lack of understanding of the government's relationship with Parliament, about the lack of respect for institutions. It must primarily be respected by an institution chosen by a state body. It can't be the other way around. How can we hide the facts from each other? What does that look like? How can we get a letter from the Prime Minister explaining that he will deliberately violate the Constitution and the law and still believes that, if the Assembly does not respect its position on the violation of the Constitution and the law, then the Assembly is unserious and destroying its own dignity? Look out, he's still giving us a lecture. And that's the government that's being reconstructed here under the leadership of this Prime Minister, who's usually the puppet of Andric's wedding. What does that look like? We have proposed an amendment to reduce the number of ministries to three, respecting the Ministry of Finance, which the Prime Minister can also hold, because you have proposed such a law. What does that look like? Of course it's a circus, of course it's a shrimp, of course it wasn't serious, and that's why we formally pulled it out, but we were thinking about keeping it all the way. And yet, we will not contribute to having this home completely unserious. We've been seriously considering making such a joke and keeping this proposal in order until the end. Anyway, he was filed, he was withdrawn, he's in the archives; who cares, he can look. No matter what they say about him, of course, they won't vote; it would be pointless. And in that explanation, it says well that the government of three members can be more economical and better than the Government of 17, as Parliament can probably be more economical and better able to have 12 MPs instead of 250. So, not only are we going to suffer the effects of a bad government, which has been destroying the country and the economy for two and a half or three years, which will certainly do so for another year, but we have to endure its upside-down logic, which is otherwise known in the people as the "handshare, and the Danube over" logic, and, after all that, after all that, and after all that upside-down logic, we have to endure the devastating negative consequences for at least another year. Why? Why does someone do that to their own country? How is it possible that someone doesn't have a basic sense of shame when his job is completely ruined, doing nothing or doing something wrong for three years, that they want to keep their position more, in the name of opening Serbia's EU bid in the autumn? For the sake of Serbia's citizens to suffer and be worse and worse from day to day, because no one can take care of their daily elemental needs? Is that the point? Was that the purpose of all this? It is really very difficult in a serious way to discuss the proposal that we have received. It is exclusively a reflection of the most ordinary political games and trade within the ruling coalition so that it can survive by a certain date. Why? Because that's what they consider their marketing move. That date is nothing real, it's also just naked marketing. It doesn't make you live. That's why people can't eat bread. People need someone who's responsible, who's going to create job opportunities, who's going to create opportunities for those who are socially at risk to get their money, and that money won't be saved by saving four salaries a year. What are you guys talking about? How can you not be ashamed? Do what the honest world has to do in these situations and circumstances. The policy you've been leading has failed. You brought the state to the brink of total collapse. Do what a normal man should do in that situation – withdraw from power, allow citizens in the elections to organise differently this parliament, create a different political division and form a different and responsible government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51582	The time available to the DSS MP group has been used this way. The authorised representative has three minutes left. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51583	Every ministry law, a new law, when passed, aims to elect a new government. This is the first time in Serbia's multi-party history that the same prime minister is elected under a new law in one term. The consequences of this law that has now been passed, let the citizens be clear, are that all ministers have resigned in the entire government except for the prime minister himself. Find an example in political history or in any European country of this kind of scandal and circus. All ministers in resignation except the prime minister - these are the consequences of this so-called the reconstructions of this political and legal chaos that you brought us into. Always in Serbian history, in the last 20 years, since a multi-party system was introduced, a new government has been elected under the new ministry law. For the first time, it is now happening that a new law on ministries in one cabinet's term is being elected by one prime minister and two new laws. Gentlemen, with what you've done now, you've disgraced Serbia and indeed made it an unserious state. That's absolutely unacceptable. The only way is that, as my colleague Aligrudic said, because of the shame you have done to Serbia, you resign and Mirko Cvetkovic to come here on Monday and that instead of the exposés and new ministers, he resigns and says, "I can't do this anymore, I can't take all the pressures I've suffered anymore, and I don't want to do this anymore. To resign, to new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51584	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51585	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, that every ruling coalition, in accordance with its mutual relations, should formulate the foundations on which they will exercise power, and this kind of debate is predicated to failure. Because what is the right of the opposition to ask the government to act the way she would do it herself? However, what is the basic argument for the amendment that we have tabled is public interest. We have not seen what the ruling coalition is doing at this time, when we have submitted to this House a proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act. On 9 April 2009, we proposed to the government to launch a project of state reform. That's when we said our country was too expensive and too incompetent. We then also proposed amendments to the Ministry Act, not with the ambition to deceive citizens by offering them as a key argument to the fact that there will be 12 ministries instead of 20 or 17, but primarily with the ambition to limit the functioning of the state and force that state to do the kind of jobs that in every normal society the state should do. At that time, we proposed 12 ministries – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Finance and Economy, Justice and Public Administration, Agriculture and Environment, Business and Trade, Urbanism and Construction, Education, Science and Culture, Health, Labour and Social Protection, Transport and Telecommunications. What follows such an organized government is a broad reform. There's no point in reshuffleing the government unless at the same time it changes the way the entire state works. Mr. Markovicu, the 12 ministries we spoke about two years ago are not only bound by the reduction of the number of ministers, but also by the government's affairs. We also proposed the privatisation of public enterprises, their transformation into stock companies, because it was already clear, in April 2009, that it was indeed too high a price for the party state to be established. Why are we not satisfied with the way the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act was made? Because it stems from the party logic of the ruling coalition and, above all, from the need of the ruling coalition. He is not the expression of the new Holy Government that has managed these societies for three years and the parties that have formed it on the inevitable division of responsibilities, rights and obligations, given the fact that the government has obviously failed in the affairs it has done. What are the biggest problems and what is the top ranking of the problems in Serbia? Economy, finance, money, salary, pension. We in 12 ministries have more economics and business dealings than in this case, with a proposal from the 17-nation ministry behind which the ruling coalition stood, and the proposal was addressed to Parliament by Mirko Cvetkovic. And that's what worries us. When we analyzed the amendments and the additions of the Ministry Act, then we really faced such huge anomalies, that we suggest you accept this amendment and then, together with us, initially build the kind of state administration that Serbia needs in the 21st century. It is pointless, Mr Markovic, at this time to offer Serbia the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. What kind of business does the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society deal with? First, the minister is offered a person who says for himself that he is a statesman by interest. I don't want to make you laugh, but where is the state of that statesman based on which he concluded that, say, he has the right to ask us to support this job? There's no culture ministry in the law that we've proposed. We have joined the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Science and have left space for the area of culture to the extent that the state should be present in culture. If we're talking about the Ministry of Environment, if we're talking about the Ministry of Planning, Urbanism and Mining, we're talking about incompatible topics. We've connected the ministries of agriculture and the environment. We don't have the Ministry of Energy at all. We have the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Urbanism and Construction. The engine of this country's development under the circumstances in which it is now located is the construction industry and agriculture, and we pay special attention to that. What will the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure do? What resources did you leave available to Minister Mrkonjic when you formed such a ministry? He has the Ministry of Infrastructure which deals with public works, but there are no companies that are public and which these works should be realized. It's too expensive. If we analyze together the explanation we're offering, then you'll see that the essence of the simple effort is to disassemble the party state. The party state is asking us today to become the ruling coalition that largely inherited it and which keeps it alive. That's unacceptable. There are other suggestions. We don't agree with them because they're demagogues. There is no point in talking about reducing ministries and avoiding privatisation and transformation of public enterprises. There is no point in talking about reducing ministries and leaving the same width to a new one, which will be formed by joining the two tomorrow. The withdrawal of the state from everyday life, from economic, sports, cultural, educational – that is what we need. Our amendment makes assumptions about something like that. Since we can't be so abnormal that we ask the ruling majority to act as if we were in opposition, consider this not as a lesson, but above all as our obligation to the society that we are obliged to say, that in April 2009, two years ago, we passed this law to this Parliament, which does not endanger the ruling coalition (this is not the case today, as it was not today), but leaves the possibility of establishing a state organisation that is needed in order to effectively reform the country, modernise society, establish European values, and thus create assumptions for the achievement of what it is to the greatest extent of the citizens of this country, and this is a life worth as much as they are worth alone in it. Our amendment has made something like this possible. Unfortunately, very little of what we have identified as criteria and standards is recognised in the proposal on changes and additions submitted by the government, reducing ourselves to 17 ministries, but retaining the width of the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51586	Seven minutes and 45 seconds were used time by the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš and Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) Alexander Jerkov’s National Envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51587	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, far from the LSV feeling that this law will solve all the problems that exist in our society. As this is not the case with any law, the law itself, as such, cannot solve the really deep problems that our public sector has, which the government has, which the state has, and we do not think that this law is the end of a process that should lead to a more efficient state, towards a cheaper state, but we believe that it can be a good start of this process. If we look at the bill, we don't see how it'll lead to saving. The mere merger of ministries in such a way that one ministry assumes all obligations, all resources, all employees, all jobs of the ministry, does not really lead to savings. That is precisely why we expect this solution to be only a transitional period, that one basic analysis of all these new ministries, their needs, their capacities, their resources will follow, and that in the coming period there will be a new systemisation, that there will be one reform that will indeed lead to citizens in this reform of government seeing their interest and their need and that it will prove that this all made sense. However, in this very proposal, which we will support, we see a certain space for change, for improvement. We've submitted a few amendments. The one I'm talking about right now is in direct connection with the amendment we submitted to Article 9. Both apply to the same ministry. It is about the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the amendments are in fact aimed at bringing this law closer to the real situation in Serbia, which no one likes, and least to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our current reality, when it comes to regional development, is that Serbia, apart from Albania, is the only country in Europe that has no regions and is not regionally divided. This is one situation that is least liked by LSV, which has been in favour of regionalising our country for 20 years. We really think that the only way for a balanced regional development is, in fact, true, real regionalisation, not quasi-regionalisation, which we have the opportunity to get. That is why we have submitted an amendment that we are actually asking for the powers of this ministry to be limited to the only regions that we in our country have and which the Constitution and the laws know, which are statistical regions. We believe that any other legal solution could actually damage our country's regionalisation process, which is primarily the need of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are actually the only entities that could be considered regions in the existing legal system of the Republic of Serbia AP Kosovo and Metohija, AP Vojvodina and the City of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade operates under a completely different law, the AP Kosovo and Metohija have a special status in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the AP Vojvodina has its own authorities that have their own responsibilities, and the work of this ministry would, to some extent, have just been affected by what are the powers of the AP Vojvodina under the applicable laws and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, in order for this ministry's competences to be reduced to the real situation in the Republic of Serbia and what can truly be the framework of this ministry's work, we have suggested that wherever the regions are talked about in this proposal, it is actually talking about statistical regions, because I believe that any flat-rate division into some regions that do not exist in our country in the future would damage the regionalisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51588	Two minutes and 22 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken. The National Assembly will declare it in the day of the vote. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51589	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and asked for a special ministry for refugees, exiled persons and displaced persons to be formed. For what? Because in practice so far, we have had very bad experience with the existing normative-legal regulation relating to the exercise of the rights of refugees and the return of those rights that have been seized by Croatia, and, on the other hand, the real need to form a special ministry, a special state body that will take care of it. What's the practice so far? We had a normative provision under which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy was obliged to carry out administrative and administrative affairs, according to the law, on the exercise of rights and integration of refugees and displaced persons. So, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been obliged to work on everything concerning the deprived and lost rights of the Serbian people from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, BiH and other countries of the former Yugoslavia. What has been done in the past in terms of the matter within the Ministry? Are the funds secured? When this government was formed in 2008, no money was allocated to these jobs and to integration. It's not even 2009, 2010, 2011. Is there an organisational unit at the Ministry that deals with these issues? It doesn't exist. No employee in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy deals specifically with these issues. Then what are we talking about? We're talking about an empty letter on paper, about all of this. So the refugees were cheated. This is a con from the refugee population. We're worried, we're gonna do everything, etc., and there's not a single single worker who's going to deal with these issues. I've received a response from the government to this amendment. It says so - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in order to carry out these tasks, the Law on Refugees has educated the Commissioner for Refugees as a special organisation. Well, that's what we're looking for. It can only be done by the Ministry, for the sake of importance, because it is international affairs, and no one else can do it. Here I read to you the answer to one of my parliamentary questions from the government, where you said that the Refugee Commissioner would be actively working on foreign policy dealings with refugee status. It can't be the Commissioner for Refugees, it can't be this special organization, it can be a special body, in this case, the Ministry. Furthermore, when we talk about refugee problems, they are huge. We were also here, representatives of the SRS, that it was a total of about 30 billion euros in property, social rights taken from Serbs. Huge money, huge property there. The state, according to the Constitution, is committed to helping all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including those of the citizens who received that status after 1990 and 1991 by banishing and genocide action by the Croatian state. The state of Serbia has not taken care of refugees, it is a fundamental finding that the SRS has been saying for years. That is why I call on the state authorities, I call on the government, I call on all relevant factors to be made public and to put this issue into consideration and to form this ministry. We wouldn't have this situation as we do about the Purda case. I will refer to the case as an authentic example of the inconsistency and unprincipledness of Serbian state policy. When caught in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the law enforcement authorities of the Republic of BiH, all state authorities and all heads of state said it was a war crime, etc. What does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia say? He says we'll deal with the President of the Tadics about the arrest. The president of the state, Josipovic, says – Purda's policy of reconciliation is due to the release of the Purda, the policy of agreement. So can war crimes be forgiven, can war crimes be put in a certain form by the executive state authorities in a context that certain state authorities, in this case the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, forgive this crime? Can you say goodbye? Now, that's what you did. These days, we have announcements from the Croatian state authorities that a donor conference will be held with representatives of the United States, the European Union and other relevant humanitarian organisations. It's about the amount... I say, that's Croatian data. Croatian media is talking about the donor conference, ours are silent about it. Well, there's no state authority that can work, because you've brought it down to the Commissioner, who can't do it or does it. Croatian media say the following -- a donor conference is being set up to establish an international humanitarian fund for the Serbian refugees' housing, thus ending their fate as a political issue. We're forming a fund and there's no more... So, politically, we're not gonna talk about it. Unfortunately, the Serbian state authorities are silent about this and accept all that comes from Croats. It is further noted that the goal is to raise about 100m euros. One hundred million euros and they closed the political issue and all the rights taken away. Thirty billion euros will be reduced to a hundred million and some will get something. It's a disgrace for Serbian state authorities, it's misery and it's for refugees who lost everything. The social status of these people has been assumed by the Republic of Serbia. Is one dinar refunded by the Republic of Croatia, which has committed genocide against that people? It's not. Now, citizens of Serbia and dear Krajisniki, take care, you trusted this government, here's what's coming for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51590	Five minutes and 35 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the correction amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51591	Dear Vice-Presidents, Ministers of resignation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Madam Vice President, at first I would just like to inform you that after these two first minutes on the amendment, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. I am very concerned that we do not have any new problems with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure today. I, Mr. Markovic, will not particularly return to what happened yesterday, not even those personal or professional insults in terms of what anyone knows or what they don't know, but I will talk about the law that you represent here and for which you are in some way and responsible, primarily because of the resources covered by your ministry and in this composition of the government, and especially after the vote and, I believe, the adoption of this law and the formation of a new government at the beginning of next week. It has already been said that two years ago we submitted a bill with a very clear proposal that the Serbian government has 12 resolutions, 12 ministries, and that, on the other hand, what is essential reform, which would allow the state to be more efficient and more efficient and quality in providing services to its citizens and businesses, the economy, which is particularly important, and this has to do with the amendment currently on the agenda, that a whole set of these reforms be carried out within a very short period of time, first of all, so that the state would finally decide what it wants to deal with, which businesses it wants to participate in and how these jobs and obligations are best served in the best possible way, or, if you want to in other words, how to spend in the most efficient way the money of taxpayers who collect or the money for which it is owed on the domestic or international market (this past few years becomes a practical and key source for financing government activities). Mr Jovanovic has already told you something about, that even in that 12-resor government, as the LDP suggests, there are more resolutions and jobs that are essentially concerned with economic and financial issues than in this government, which is practically in the state of resignation, and in the government that you will choose next week. Our proposal, especially when it comes to Article 6 of the Law, which is our attempt to establish through the amendment the Ministry of Finance and Economy, would contribute to a much more efficient and coherent work. The adoption of this amendment would in some way eliminate all the negative effects or phenomena that, in the extreme line, are at that symbolic level or the level of the incident that we experienced three weeks ago and lead to the practical collapse of this government. This fundamental division between the economic and development resolutely and, unfortunately, on your proposal, will still remain in the hands of the G17 plus, or the United Regions of Serbia, and on the other hand, the ambition of the DS to keep this portfolio in its own hands, which is further strengthened by the idea that Prime Minister Cvetkovic himself is the finance minister in the next government. In Serbia's recent history, I remember a similar case, that the prime minister was holding a portfolio. In 1992, Milan Panic, I think, held the defence portfolio parallel to the prime minister's post. In that case, it did not end well for many reasons, and I do not want to believe that Mr. Cvetkovic's fate will be similar to that of Mr. Panic, as it was 20 years ago. The merger of these resolutions, these two groups of state affairs, the role of the state in finance and the economy, even if we believe so, would in the near future avoid the situations we are facing today, that two and a half months after the adoption of the strange amendment, on December 29th, Serbia still has a double excise regime on motor gasoline and diesel fuels. On March 22nd, he is in 10 or 11 days, and I am not sure that the government will succeed, after forming next week, to come out in time or come to Parliament with such a law. We already have two tax laws waiting here, which are also amendments to the laws passed at the end of last year. I see that you've defined yourselves mostly for silence today, but I'd really like some of these questions answered. I admit that at this point you represent the Government in full capacity and therefore I expect answers to some of these questions. That is information and analysis that is known to the public, and we have talked a lot about it. We also spoke at that session about ten days ago, which was in fact the most serious political event since some ministers were expelled from the government and Prime Minister Cvetkovic's decision to, as he claimed then, take a new and more energetic route. The session discussed the essence of the issue of the Serbian government and the Serbian state and what burdens citizens, which led to the fact that budgeting in this year is more problematic than ever before and that we have such problems already in the second half of February and early March. We will certainly return to that and it will be a problem that will mark our lives after the completion of this soap opera with the reconstruction of the government. Finally, and in our proposal for a law that we passed two years ago and through these amendments, we focused on, in some way, what is key national resources, particularly in economic terms, or what can be a dizziness, as it is commonly said, for some economic growth, being located effectively and to manage them more effectively. We talked a lot about the situation in public enterprises. The prime minister, members of the government who spoke here about what they said in public and public affairs, best said that so far the management of public enterprises has been very inefficient and that the whole problem arises from the concept of public enterprises that is unsustainable. You've been changing the Government Act this time. The Government Act, through one or two provisions, even mentions public undertakings in terms of the rights and obligations of the Government to exercise ownership and management rights over them as founder. Maybe this was an opportunity to lay some groundwork for a different organisation of a public enterprise, first of all to resolve the situation in them, to prepare for the market, and then to make political and economic decisions on what we're going to do with each of these companies. Instead, you have defined yourself that to the ministry that has so far been the most inefficient and in the performance of its usual duties and in the management and exercise of control over the work of public enterprises in its sector, you add some public enterprises that are very important not only for the development, but also for the survival of the state, not only because of your idea that public enterprises should have a social function, but also because of their basic role in both economic life and in the life of the state at all. I'm talking about the Ministry of Infrastructure and Minister Mrkonjic. I'm least interested in where he is today, I'm curious to know why he's not here and why we can't ask him about the effects of working in his ministry today. The ministry is the most inefficient in European integration. The entire government had a lot of problems with meeting its obligations in the last quarter last year, but the Ministry of Infrastructure is an absolute champion. None of the six commitments, if I recall correctly, in the report on the achievement of the national integration plan, the ministry failed to meet. The minister treats these obligations as usual in public. In rare situations, it is pleasant, but in all situations it is very harmful to the interests of this country. So, this is the ministry that has held in its hands the resources of several very powerful public enterprises, in which in the most inefficient way is spent (or wasted, however you want) already several billion euros, either from credit lines or from budget subsidies. Through this merger of ministries, through the possibility that this ministry will also lead the mining portfolio in the future as practically the last national energy resource, these losses will be even greater. There's no minister, we can't ask any other questions we've had in this area. How does the state feel that it is more efficient to run the economy sector, regardless of who is at its head and no matter how much in its business, in a narrow sense, was Mr. Ciric, who will be elected as Minister here, if their hands are tied, if they have no instrument in fiscal and economic policy, unless they have those instruments that are related to excise policy (because this country no longer has sovereignty in that area, cannot run a sovereign policy in terms of determining excise duties, especially those products that are subject to an energy agreement with Russia and this catastrophic NIS sale contract), when it cannot manage national resources in this sense to regulate the level, height or rate of mineral rent, which here practically has an energy agreement forever limited to 3%, so the loss on the mining rent, only on the basis of the annual amount of oil and gas which is exploited in the territory of the Vojvodina practically equivalent or possibly not having a positive advantage of this country? There aren't any other ministers who can talk about it. There is no minister who first applied without anyone asking him, two, two and a half years ago, how he will be the first victim, a voluntary victim of government rationalization. There is no Rasim Ljajic, the minister who has been very expressive about Serbia these days, and thinks that there is enough comfort for people whose ministry or his government, and was minister in three or four governments over the past ten years, could offer nothing but ministerial compassion and human salary. It certainly does not contribute to what the prime minister is trying to claim, or to what he was trying to claim at the first moment, I see that he later resettled, that this new government and these new ministries will run new energy and new faces. There's no one else. There has been a lot of talk here about Mr Predrag Markovic, who will be a candidate for the minister of telecommunications, information society and culture. I don't think the most important thing is whether he has a degree in college or how he experiences himself in terms of profession, whether he's a statesman, but in his biography I've seen another interesting thing. One of his two or three books is called "the lemon squeezed." This reminds me of the reform capacity or the reform potential that the future government will have under these laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51592	Nine minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) Alexander Jerkov’s National Envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51593	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which defines the powers of the Ministry of Finance. The essence of our amendment is very simple. We, in fact, demand that the responsibility of this ministry as its obligation be set up to regulate the assets and original revenues of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As the Republic of Serbia is the only country that has no regions, it has also remained single or very lonely among European countries where local self-governments do not have their own property, in which local self-government has no income and in which everything it wants in any way to develop in the Republic of Serbia must depend on the will of Belgrade, on the funds in Belgrade, on priorities in Belgrade, which, of course, directly affects the quality of life of citizens living in our country. This is not a whim of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, which is the obligation that the Republic of Serbia has and the right that local self-government and autonomous provinces have on the basis of several members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – Articles 183, 184 and 188. These are all members who guarantee citizens of the Republic of Serbia wherever they live, the right to original income and the right to property. Although very often all parties that exist in the Republic of Serbia are declaring themselves to return property to local self-government, not to mention the Autonomous Region, it is seen that very little is actually done to make it happen. All these members of the Constitution that I have stated are also the provisions that will be regulated by law. There's no law on that. During that time, the citizens of Vojvodina, citizens of all municipalities in Serbia, cannot have those rights guaranteed by the Constitution and, of course, this is reflected in the poor quality of their lives. This is a kind of pressure that the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is putting on the government to become the obligation of the Ministry of Finance to settle these issues. It is an obligation not to the LSV, at least to LSV, it is an obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government has not accepted this amendment. We hope that the People's Assembly in voting day will make a different statement and that they will come across the support of all those MPs representing the citizens, who are in the parties that are declaring themselves to return the property. Here's a chance to do something in that field specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51594	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51595	We have submitted an amendment in accordance with the amendment that we have brought to Article 2. Because Article 2 changes the essence of the whole approach in the bill itself, and it is therefore necessary to change the title of members and the content of the member concerned by the Ministry of Justice itself. I'm going to do a little crackdown on yesterday's debate, and we're going to step forward in that debate. In addition to my personal injury, I want to point out my astonishment, and not only my own, but all of us, to what was the attitude towards profession, to the profession, to the profession, to the law, to the application of rights and to all of these things that I've been talking about so far. But as the ancient Latins say, I'm inscitating Mother Arrogantia, so, accordingly, what happened yesterday I accept as one necessity of our unfinished political scene. If someone had put this Latin wisdom in my face, I'd be ashamed, with all the arguments I've made. Now to return to the very essence of our amendment. I have already stated that the amendment is a consequence of the amendment to Article 2. Bills of laws, i.e. different organisations and the number of ministers. It is that the Ministry of Justice is also added a portfolio of public administrations. The LDP believes that the existing framework is set by the Ministry Act and that it creates a government that has an enormous number of ministries, i.e. ministers and members, and that the competences of individual ministries are unclear and that they overlap largely. This further slows down and collects otherwise inefficient and irrational public administration, which we talked about yesterday in detail. This situation is particularly unacceptable under the conditions of the general economic and financial crisis and the announced campaign to reduce total consumption. If a drastic reduction in the number of ministries is not immediately carried out, all austerity measures will mostly be reduced to private spending, with cosmetic reductions much more dangerous public spending. For these reasons, we propose that this law immediately reduces the number of existing ministries so that the Government has only 12 ministries, and as part of this is our amendment regarding the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the change in the name and the contents of this article itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51596	A minute and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia". Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the ruling majority, has, through amendments to individual MPs, which, through the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration, have submitted 15 amendments that will obviously be accepted and that will, to a good extent, amend this text of the ministry law. It is obvious that the full concept of the ministry law has not arrived in the assembly procedure, but I am sorry that it has not responded in this area, even if it has not responded, because there is an obvious oversight here, and the great damage this member of the law will do with this proposal, by joining the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management with the Ministry of Trade, to make the economy and the standard of all citizens in Serbia today. The fact that Ministers Dragin and Milosavljevic are at the mercy of the Prime Minister could by no means be an argument to bring together the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The Department of Trade has nothing to look for with the Ministry of Agriculture, these jobs are quite different, and the SNS proposal was to find the Ministry of Environment, the part relating to the environment, which is perfectly natural. When it comes to trade and so far the work of the Ministry of Trade, the SNS is also unsatisfactory. We think that because of this work or, more specifically, the work of the Ministry of Trade, today we have very big problems in the area of prices, in the area of market monopolization, and that it is necessary to do the merger of business done at the Ministry of Trade with the business of the Ministry of Economy. Because our economic growth today depends largely on services, and this government is defined as taking much more account of the real sector in the coming period, so it was natural and normal for trade to be part of the economy ministry. I'd say we lost dozens in retail alone, if not hundreds of jobs, that petty trade, thanks to these monopolies that were made possible by the Ministry of Trade in the previous period, was ruined, that it was hugely lost. The state and work of the Ministry of Trade can be easily seen through some statistics. For example, in the retail trade of small unspeakable goods, these are retail chains, the ten largest companies control 70% of the market; Delta, with the Ce Market and Pecabeta, holds about 38% of our market; in the retail trade, ten largest companies have traffic of about 58%, there is a very serious concentration, and in the area where cosmetics and pharmaceutical products are even a dozen companies, which have the largest volume, have a concentration of 88%. So it is quite certain that the problems in trade are very serious, that the policy led by the Ministry of Trade in the previous period has affected that a good portion of liquid assets from the economy, from small and medium-sized enterprises, vacuums into trade, that this is the reason we have an extremely small industrial production and that the damage that the government has made to the National Assembly, if such a member of the law is accepted, will be great in the next period. I thank you and hope that for these arguments and these problems in the area of monopoly, the lack of competition in our market, there will be much more understanding by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51598	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) A group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the correction amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51599	Dear President, I will use, except for these two minutes, and part of the time of the parliamentary group. The LDP submitted this amendment, taking into account also its proposal for a law on ministries and guided by the idea that, above all, the current organisation, on the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, and on the other, the ministry which, in its current description, includes the topic of environmental protection, has produced a number of harmful effects, particularly in this second part, to the environmental protection sector, which has so far been united with the urban and construction sector, and the latest changes to the law will be added to them by the mining sector. A few years ago, the entire opposition, including many parties that are in power today, had been terribly objecting, and in some mocking way talked about the ministry then led by Mr Velimir Ilic, who was called the Ministry of Capital Investments, so that in the next few years, especially through these latest amendments to the laws that are proposed, we could practically get a ministry that, according to its powers, by its resources, by the money it controls, even bigger than that ministry, and you can see what happens when such ministries exist. One or several disputed contracts or disputed signatures can result in very serious consequences. We will see how these legal or judicial proceedings will develop, but we would not like to see any of today's ministers, primarily because of the poor organisation of the government and the ministry, or because of the excessive number and scope of the authority, be brought into a similar situation, especially in view of all that has appeared in the public over the past months, especially when it comes to the functioning of the environmental sector, the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, etc. In a country where between 600 million and a billion euros per year "iscuri", or "passes through the fingers", it is said in a vivid manner, through public procurement procedures, such a concentration of power and authority in the hands of a minister is very problematic. A similar or the same type of problem will also produce the unification of the agriculture and trade ministries, according to the government. For this reason, our proposal was for the unification of agriculture and environmental protection, as is common in many other countries, to make this ministry really focused on the agriculture sector, but in one serious way. In the past two and a half years, as far as the crisis goes, from the statement by Minister Diana Dragutinovic at the very beginning of the crisis and the crisis that the agrarian is, that agriculture is our chance and a perfectly justified public expectation and belief of citizens in Serbia who today recognise the agrarian as the greatest chance, we have come to the conclusion that in the second half of 2010 we were faced with really serious shortages. The government remained deaf even to some very concrete proposals, which came among other things from LDP, how, through different management of the tax policy, through a policy of controlled trade margins, demonopolisation, some of these issues were resolved, and not by demagogogogy, how in the end, to a good degree, and an empty story of monopolies and monopolies, but by a way to protect interests and those who are direct producers and those who, through their processing capacities, have a key impact on the final product and its distribution and its arrival in trade. It obviously didn't happen and, as it usually happens, the whole story is reduced to some names and speculation about who protects whose interests. It's sometimes interesting to the public, but it has nothing to do with the serious solution of the problem in the way we expect. So, our proposal is to relieve Minister Dulic, to exempt from his jurisdiction this part of the environmental buffer, so that, if you have already decided to keep him, along with Minister Mrkonjic and the other minister, who stands out for his ineffectiveness or even the problems he has produced, keep him in the government, so that you can allow him to concentrate on the urban and building sector, which in our proposal is a special resort, so that we do not again come into the situation that 20 months after the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, we are changing 90 of his provisions, and that, as the minister acknowledges, building permits for a million squares of residential and commercial space is not used because the construction industry in the meantime is completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51600	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment. Mr. Zoran Babic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51601	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Markovic is not in the O.R., unfortunately. The SNS stance on the composition and functionality of the government of the Republic of Serbia has been translated into draft laws on ministries and government. You, unfortunately, rejected these drafts of the law "by difolt" because they were proposed by the strongest political party in Serbia. These bill proposals are not a pre-election pamphlet, not only dead letters on paper, but obliged Serbian citizens to make up 12 ministries after an early parliamentary election. Among these 12 ministries, there is no Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, because for SNS, the existence of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is unsustainable. Since Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has named the former minister, now our fellow MP, Mladjan Dinkic, as the most responsible for high unemployment in Serbia, we believe that the ministry he led should also bear some responsibility and share the fate of the minister, because the economic situation in Serbia is more than difficult and unemployment is enormous. We don't want to close our eyes to those problems and those facts. Instead of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of the SNS, it proposes the establishment of a Ministry of Industry and Labour, which would combine the competences of several current ministries that are responsible for certain areas of business, thus achieving better performance and coordination of plans. This ministry would also be competent for the entire area of labour relations and employment. These jobs have been divided in a relatively vague way between the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy according to your proposal for a law on ministries. Jobs related to the NIP should also not stand in this proposal for a law on ministries, as in practice so far, the NIP ministry has invested in projects that are in the jurisdiction of other ministries, which directly interfered in their jurisdiction and made it more difficult for those ministries to work. So we had a very vague situation in Serbia – whether it was once paved by the NIP or the Ministry of Infrastructure, whether a school in Serbia was built through the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of the NIP, whether a school gym was built next to that school by means of the Ministry of Education, NIP or the Ministry of Sport. Anyway, the NIP ministry was just everywhere. On the other hand, if we look at the decision on the distribution of NIP for 2010 and 2011, we see that it was the ministry and there and spent large amounts of state money, budgets, in order to form and affirm a political party. The analysis of these decisions also shows a huge disproportionateness in the territorial allocation of these funds to municipalities and cities in Serbia and this disproportionateity does not really show a policy of equal regional development and decentralisation, which the political party advocates. Since you refused the amendment, I won't invite you to reconsider that amendment. I call you to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, so let the citizens of Serbia decide whose concept they believe more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51602	A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the correction amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51603	Thank you, President. The LDP's proposal was to have a classic economy and trade ministry, but this amendment has a broader context. It is also linked to a whole series of other ministries, i.e. the foundations and concepts of government policy. I think it's the only ministry that hasn't been seriously discussed throughout this whole, to repeat once again -- soaps about reconstruction, the Foreign Ministry. Most of the ministries in our proposal, the ministries that exist today, can't work in a normal way while the foreign ministry is headed by a person who closes all the markets and all the political routes in this country, and in the region, both in Europe and beyond. If we are talking about the economy ministry, especially the Ministry of Trade, then the real question is what markets such an economy of this kind of Serbia could sell anything without talking about how bad potentials would be even in a situation where there are more serious production capacities here. The only single market on which we have a surplus is the Cefta market, especially in some of its territories, which include Montenegro, Kosovo, BiH. What's the chance is the EU. In any of these fields, it is not possible to create a more serious breakthrough without any political initiative or political predecessors. What is the perspective of any ministry dealing with these issues when we have to come into a situation where, once again, we have a president visiting Japan, a foreign minister who is accompanied by a Vice-President for European Integration who is going after him to reduce potential damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51604	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are finally making some kind of reconstruction of the government. I would like the minister to be there, because he has convinced us on all our criticisms that the opposition has suggested that the reconstructed government will not be significantly cheaper than the previous government, but it will certainly be more effective in its work and implementation of its law and the Constitution of the envisaged obligations. And look, here, you've already made a mistake in one of the first steps. Because life is one thing, reality is one thing, and the definitions of Mr. Markovic's great administrative lawyer are science fiction, especially in the part where he swears that the law never broke, and it is every time he had to bring his own to power in some community. Article 10 provides that there is a Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy (I would not now repeat stories of what this has to do with each other and so on) and Article 14 provides for the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. Again, I don't want to talk about whether it has anything to do with each other, but I'd like to ask the government's authorised representative what he's going to do, let's say, with the Kostolac company. The company Kostolac, one of our power combinations, has its composition and surface spears. It's a public firm, so I'm very interested in what the next provision in article 10 will look like and how it will be implemented. Article 10 says the ministry, among other things, is taking steps to provide conditions for public enterprises to function in areas for which the ministry is educated. So, no problem, they've got a thermal power plant, and that's where the ministry will monitor, but they've got surface nets. Who's gonna keep an eye on that? Over one public enterprise, the two ministries will supervise, and ministers are from completely different parties, and there are no state secretaries from the other party, but the ministries are set up by the Feds or the party principle, so they do not act on the position of the unity of the government, but have divided the authorities. And now there's a perfectly logical question about how it's going to work for the company. It's funny to you, but they've got a Djerdap on dry land there today and they've got three big surface spears. Instead of laughing, you better ask for an answer. That's what it looks like when people who don't know what life is, don't know what reality is, don't know their own administration and what kind of problems one of these bad laws can make, send something like this to the Assembly for adoption. And the ruling majority, I suppose because of these feuds and the division of power, will not give up on the bill for one single step, regardless of the consequences that there will be when the law in some parts of it is bad. Gentlemen, you can reconstruct governments, you can talk about how this is the best possible solution, but as soon as this starts to live, you'll see how many mistakes you've made and you're just making it easier for us to beat you in the next election as easy as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51606	A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51607	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the LDP has submitted an amendment to Article 11, which requires that there is no Ministry of State Administration, Local Self-Government, Human and Minority Rights in the reconstructed government. This amendment of ours is the logical consequence of our amendment to Article 2. The bill, which we updated our proposal for a law on ministries two years ago, where we predicted there were 12 ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, although we have provided for the abolition of this ministry, it is much more important for us to deal with this future ministry, which is what this future ministry will have to do with all the problems that have arisen thanks to the current Minister Chiplic, who led the human property rights portfolio. I am particularly referring to the problems that occurred in Sandzak after the elections for the National Council of Bosniaks, i.e. the logical question is whether the policy of the new, future, reconstructed governments in relation to the problem of minorities, rather than the problem of the constitution of the Bosniak National Council, will be the same as the policy implemented by Mr Chiplic. If this policy will change, if Mr. Markovic withdraws the decision to resuscitate, then we can have tolerance over the existence of this ministry. However, if this ministry continues to lead that policy that has antagonised the entire one-national minority with representatives of the government, then such a policy does not deserve absolutely any support. What we need to say clearly from here is that there are no persons in the Sandzak area or people who are ready and want to destabilise the Republic of Serbia. It is now the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights that has so far existed, Mr. Ciplic and the policy he has conducted that destabilizes the Republic of Serbia and tries to make Sandzak and Bosniaks some new on-call culprits, so that the rest of Serbia can get votes in some future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51608	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. National MP Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51609	Fellow MPs, the SNS, the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group, submitted a number of amendments to the bill. In addition to the amendment, we also wrote a draft law on the ministries on 16 December that provided for the Serbian government to have 12 ministries. That was our goal for the reason to achieve and some save in the functioning of this government. Namely, with those 12 ministries, instead of the current number of ministries, savings would be made of around fourm euros, which are not small for Serbia today. Our amendment has arisen, as have the other amendments concerning this law, from our proposal for a law on ministries. I would not now read what this article 11 should contain, or a member relating to the Ministry of State and local self-government, but what matters, as far as the current government is concerned, which is without ministers because all ministers have resigned, according to the proposal of the number of ministries in today's government, all those ministers in that government have resigned and we are now forming a new government that... President, I have a problem with this. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51610	My colleagues, I'd really like to ask you not to disturb Mr. Kishmarton. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51611	Thank you. The question arises what is the purpose of amending the Government Act after three years of failed work by this government in the first place. Also, what will be achieved by the newly formed government in this short time? It's been a few months. What can be expected from a new government composed of old ministers? If some have left the government, resigned from the government because, as they said, people without morals are sitting in the government, and today they are returning to that government again, what is it that we can expect from such a government, by force, where it is common to all ministers in that government just to preserve power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51612	Thank you. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond put together the title above Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandar Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Papuga, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51613	Dear President, fellow Members, we have submitted this amendment to two positions in Article 11. The first attitude refers to the parent books. In fact, we have added this official use of language, which should now be cared for by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Human and Minority Rights, in order to fully implement the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, which provides that this ministry should allow citizens to issue personal documents in languages that are officially used in the territory in which they are issued. We know well that the Constitution in Article 79 and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in Article 9 provide that personal documents can be issued bilingually, or in Serbian, in Cyrillic, and in the language of the national minority, but in order to enable this, the current documents must, in fact, be published in the languages of the national minorities in order to enable it in other personal documents. Practice has shown that since documents have been issued, permanent documents, derived from birth certificates, this possibility does not exist since permanent forms have recently been printed only in Topcider and are issued only Cyrillicly. Simply, it was denied the right of national minorities to receive bilingual copies from birth certificates, which then withdraws the issue or non-issue of ID cards and other documents in the languages of national minorities, so that these changes wanted to affect the newly formed Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and local self-government to take care of the official use of language and letters. Also, in Article 11, we also have an amendment to Article 2. The words "human and minority rights acts" add to the words "the position and exercise of the commission's competence to examine the responsibility for human rights violations". We know that the Law was passed in 2003 and until today no committee has been established to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations, so we think that the amendment should be adopted since it is the obligation of the newly formed ministry to form this committee for human rights violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51614	Thank you. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51615	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing this proposal of the ministry law, and the SNS sent a proposal a few months ago that contained a significant number of ministries. The proposal stemmed from the need, firstly, to rationalise and save government functions at this time of crisis, and thus to achieve a better function and organisation in a smaller number of ministerial resolutions, and thus to make the government's function more effective for the benefit of this state of Serbia. On this proposal, of course, the government remained deaf, and now, after four months, we are considering these proposals of government and ministry laws, where the government itself has offered to reduce the number of resolutions and ministries. From this proposal that we have also made, our amendment to Article 12 refers to the formation of a ministry that would be the Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports, Science and Technological Development. In the previous cabinet meeting, it was practically three ministries – Ministry of Science, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Youth and Sports. From this original proposal and the current amendments come out. What about these suggestions? All these areas that we have proposed to make up one ministry are logically and doctrinally connected. Practically, the entanglement of these areas makes it safe to develop a better function and organisation, because all these areas – and education, and youth, and sport and science – should not be specifically explained because every citizen, every common man, layman, does not need great arguments to understand that the organisation, function, refers almost to the same target population and all that from the first grade of primary school to some definitive finalisation and employment makes up a single continent. In all the arguments of the Government, our amendments are being rejected because the Government's proposal is consistent. Eh, if that were to happen in the debate, in the argument, but obviously there is no, but in these two minutes and few taken, per minute or two, it's hard to explain any argument and any argument that could prove anything. And the goal is not to prove to the government, the ruling coalition, because they will not accept it, but to hear Serbian citizens, so that they can judge for themselves who is right and who is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51616	A group of 12 MPs from the LDP group submitted to the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the correction amendment. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51617	Thank you, President. At the very beginning, I find it fascinating to say every time that life and the world began in December of last year, when this SNS bill was submitted, but good. You know, there's been some history before, so if you're talking about education and science, then we can go back to 1998, when some of your leaders today were the main promoters of this catastrophic anti-civilization law, whose consequences we feel today. Yesterday, I was talking about the fact that Belgrade University today is not among the 500 most prized or first-class universities in the world, and these are certainly the consequences of that law, along with the 1998 Law on Public Information. But to get back to the point, why the LDP has submitted such an amendment, which we are practically asking for to be included with the Ministry of Education, that is, education and science, in the area of the ministry's work. For many reasons, the whole story of the government's reconstruction of the education sector was not a topic. The accession of the Ministry of Science, i.e. the science sector, is collateral damage to relations between the ruling coalition parties and the need to maintain that famous balance 3:1:1, or something like that, as the proportion already reads. On the other hand, we have a strike in the ongoing education, we have here several times mentioned a copy of Belgrade University's rector with people who were authors of the classification that I spoke of, which was humiliating for this society, defeating not so much for the rector himself you turned into what you turned him into, but because of the fact that for our society at this point it is controversial that criteria are the number of students or professors who are winners of the Nobel Prize, the number of references of the two most prestigious international magazines, the number of foreign students studying at home universities. I don't understand how this need to keep making second leagues of ourselves and downplay our own criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51618	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Miss Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51619	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to say that I am concerned by the very fact that I had the need to submit this amendment. What concerns me even more is the government's response I received, and at the beginning, it's about an amendment that's directly related to the amendment that we submitted to Article 19. I'm going to talk to you about both amendments, and it's about religious follow-up in primary and secondary schools. The proposal for a law on ministries that we have received provides for religious teaching, curricula and programs for religious teaching, the development of religious teaching, the real Ministry of Religion. I hope there's no need for me to remind the MPs of Article 11. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which explicitly says that Serbia is a world state and that churches and religious communities are separate from the state. I think that the education system is certainly a large part of the state, the most significant part of the state, and therefore it is not clear how that teaching plans and programs for religious teaching are now building a resolution ministry, not the Ministry of Education, which we deeply believe is the only competent, only competent and only has enough capacity to create curricula and programmes for any subject, including the subject of religious science. The face of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina has always been against religious science in schools. And when it was voted on, we were against it, we were collecting signatures against it, and day and day we believe that there is no place in state schools, both primary and secondary. We don't mind someone going to religious classes, but it can be done in a church or in a religious community, and there's no room for such a sequel in a state elementary school. Therefore, if we already have a religious teaching that exists in primary and secondary schools, we believe that it should be under strict control by the Ministry of Education and should not be left out of other teaching programs that children teach in schools. Just because there was already data that this teaching is at a pretty low level, there are really serious doubts as to how this teaching is performed. We all remember the scandal that was with that little bazaar of Orthodoxs, who was shared with the first graders of primary school, in which explicitly under the letter "C" said that whoever doesn't go to church should go to the doctor because his parents are sick. We also remember that in this sequel, religious children are taught creationism. It should be said that in the same elementary school, the same children who were taught in the course of religious studies that God created the world, the earth, the man, the woman, and all around them, afterwards, teach some completely different things in biology that are, should be said, accepted in modern science, and I don't know how an elementary school student's education can be affected by the fact that in the same school, in the same class, two courses teach two completely different things. It's all part of the fact that religious sciences at school shouldn't be at all, but when there is, we really think that it should be strictly controlled. I will agree with Mr. Knezevic that the answers given by the government as an explanation for the refusal of amendments are quite smut, and are largely down to the fact that the solution given in the draft law is more comprehensive. That's why I don't want to go into some paranoid statements, but the argument given to reject this amendment is completely different, and the first thing that comes into my eyes when I look at the explanation that we've got is this difference compared to the other arguments, which makes someone who would be suspicious might lead to the idea that the explanation isn't written in the government. Part of the explanation is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that, under the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, religious education is carried out exclusively within the framework of churches and religious communities. Hence my question – what is it doing in elementary and high school? If it is carried out exclusively in churches and religious communities, I don't know why any ministry would then be involved and why it would be one of the subjects in primary and secondary school education. Just as other ministries do not have the right to create a curricula and a programme from their domains, so the Ministry of Faith cannot have the right to create a curricula and a programme from religious science. We believe that the curricula and the programme from any subject being studied in primary and secondary schools must be the exclusive right of the Ministry of Education, which only has the capacity and can only be responsible for such a serious thing as education of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51620	Thank you. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the correction amendment. The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51621	Our concept was from the beginning, if you remember, we suggested that it was best that Serbia had 12 ministries, but now, in this debate, we thought it best, firstly, to abolish completely unclassical and unusual ministries that hardly exist anywhere, and not to change classical ministries and that they are burdened to change, to split mining and energy, but to propose, and that would be the greatest savings, to end such ministries. Let's say, we suggested, if you remember, in 2006, it was the National Investment Plan, which was made for the elections, so to buy the elections, and it survived in some way. It is now combined with the Ministry of Economy, while the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development did not add the ministry to the title, while all other ministries added five-six new names. So there's no reason that in a free and liberal society there's some kind of paternalism over youth and youth organization because I think they're young people, and that's exactly the point, they're organizing themselves, they're running their own politics, and there's no need for the ministry and the state to help them. I can understand that they can be sports societies, that they can be NGOs, but that the state cares and organizes what the youth will do, seems unnecessary to me. Then we could also build a family ministry, so the pensioners' ministry (why can't the state organise pensioners) and various other groups. So the specific organisation of individual social groups is unnecessary. Why don't you organize some other kind of... ? We think that in this situation, clearing up the situation around this reconstruction would be very useful. Let the ministries that are most needed be abolished. The others, I say, have been joined together, exaggerated, and this ministry has been unnecessary since the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51622	Time. Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51623	I think, of course, except that it is correct that they have offered a completely new draft of the ministry law, all of this, in practice, is covering some political agreement on how to preserve a government -- we're barely getting together somehow to push through. And this isn't the first time we've been honest. It's been a long time since this ministry situation has been quite confusing. But I think it's a good topic to open up some questions, probably for the future. The question is even if the future can solve this in a more quality way. In some countries, the constitution stipulates how many states there are ministries as state administration authorities and, as the government changes, they are being organised to carry out the affairs of state administration. The entire executive power is practically a defined, curved team called the so-called team. by means of a constitutional act. In some countries, it is arranged not by the constitution, but by some basic law, or by a more important law, but it is characterized by sustainability, the invariability of these provisions. In accordance with this, both the government and the opposition are divided by the government, and the opposition has a shadow government, and that's how it works. We have formed a practice that the Ministry Act is always defined, practically, by the organization of the state administration. You can see for yourself that this is a bad principle, because there is no stability, no sustainability, no security. Not only security from the views of those who need to form a government, but from the point of view, first of all, those who need to respect that regulation and that organisation, which they must because they appear as a party in the process or appear with some request to the state. When we enter into this operation to adapt regulations to political interests, feudal interests or something else, then we are all right when we submit amendments and when we criticise. We're all right today. It is right that those who have proposed, because the only possible government is if such a bill is passed. They are right to criticise, so they find some argument in sound reasoning or use a relationship of business or anything like a criterion. And they're right. However, this state, this DOS government has gone downhill. Today, the biggest critics are the agencies that formed the agencies. It can only happen in Serbia, nowhere else. But there are some who have constantly criticized these moves, which are bad. Here, I'm going to look back on this amendment. This amendment really raises a fundamental question – why do we need this many ministries? Could not have been done not only rationalised in terms of the number of ministries, the number of ministers, the deputy secretaries, etc.? Couldn't it have been accessed by some functional method? For example, isn't there a more logical connection between the Ministry of Education, or as someone says - education, the Ministry of Science, technological development and the Ministry of Youth and Sports? Simply, by the nature of things, it should be one ministry, and within that ministry it can be a sector for youth, a sector for higher education, secondary education, a sector for science, etc. Or I could take another example. At a regular session, we have the Social Protection Act. At least 50% of social protection institutions are in a natural relationship with health insurance and the provision of medical services. At least 50%. Couldn't we put it together, be one ministry, cover health, work and social policy? We could have. Couldn't we have put local self-government and state administration and human and minority rights within the justice ministry's frameworks, as you say? It used to be and it worked. Why is it important that one who deals with human issues at government level must have the status of minister? Why is it important that one who deals with youth and sports must have the status of minister? He could be the assistant minister at the Ministry of Education in charge of the sector, etc. Then we'd have 12-14 real ministers, politicians, and we wouldn't be opening pointless debates here if an orthopedic could be in the building, could this one be here, could this one be there. The minister is a politician, but an assistant minister, an adviser, or, as you say now, the Secretary of State, he must be an expert. He must handle regulations, members, etc. But no, it's dominant here -- we have 126, we're going to house this three-thirds government by its own composition, and it's essentially G17 plus, because there are 17 ministries plus something. Well, yes, there are 17 ministries. (They are no longer G17 plus, they are the URS, they count that we will forget about those free actions etc. We won't forget it, it's just work. How can we forget? I'm here to remind you all the time. Why didn't you do it? Another major flaw. Why does it have to be in every member where the ministry is defined to cite this much... ? Now I don't know how to define what's said. Can it be said that it's a detour, jurisdiction, business? No one can interpret that alive anymore. And what if, in the process of copying from concrete laws, something was dropped that would be the jurisdiction of a ministry? Could this technical error make it seem that this ministry isn't responsible for these things? That's fine, because you've applied such a criterion. Since this isn't a place for serious issues, because when it comes to 126 votes, it's all seriously falling into the water. And Rangelovic almost lost his title as a doctor of legal science. It can only be done in the congregation. Couldn't some other criteria have been applied here? You see, I'd like to give you some advice, since Putin's coming now, so you'll have a good time getting ready to talk to Putin. They have one of the most modern constitutions. There's no word of detour or jurisdiction there, but of business. The jobs of the Russian Federation, so when that happens to be extended to the competent state authorities, then it gets some other terms that need to cover what's in the works. This law should allow you to see in practice who really is in charge of an area. If you applied this legal technique and, I say, you accidentally forgot someone copy/paste, did that organ lose jurisdiction? Just to remind you, you've been in the regulations for the last 7-8 years that have been brought here by the minister, as an inotious organ headed by something that the body, the ministry, has made a little deity, an apostle. The minister adopts a rulebook, the minister delivers binding instructions, the minister this, the minister that, so he was born practically with the authority to sign. There is no more of that - the ministry responsible for affairs. And that's the only proper formula for what needs to be done. So, since we're all right, and we can't do it at the vote to show up like that, you who are most, you're going to vote. We, taught in some experiences, know that we cannot contribute to normalising this, since it is the abnormal direction Serbia is going. That's why we only submitted two amendments, one of which was spoken by Mr. Buha and one of the following Mr. Martinovic will explain. Why? Because you can't hit the wall with your head, and you know it's a stone wall or a brick wall. We may have tried 7-8 years ago to reason with you, to give you some good initiative, a good idea that would have been in your favor. You've been refusing all of ours. And you're gonna say no to this now. We do not want to be involved in this, because since 2001 there has been a promotional principle – we who need to make government have absolute freedom to define the organisation of the ministry, jobs, competences etc. But if you got that right, doesn't mean you're always right. Look, one thing is when a problem can be solved within one ministry, between two, three, four sectors that are responsible for several areas, so there are peripheral cases when it overlaps, and there's a whole other situation when one area is divided, so one goes to one ministry, and the other goes to another ministry. Then communication between the two ministries, and you know in practice and in the field which is the problem and about jurisdiction – I am not, I am, etc. After this, we'll have in practice a whole series of disputes who's in charge. So, just to ask, who's the competent authority? One authority says - I am no longer in charge, the other says - I am not in charge, and the citizen says - I have spoken to the state, I don't care which one of you is in charge. You didn't take care of that. You kept an eye on how to cut the number to 17 and make everyone happy. And really, something happened, of something that could be a sector in some ministry, you made a ministry. Same as the NIP when you were building or this information society. Look, there used to be a Ministry of Transport and Communications, there were telecommunications, etc. It's all messed up now, it's all messed up. Watch out now, trade and agriculture. What do trade and agricultural services have to do with it? Let's say that you put environmental, water, wind (good, wind is), but that's where you put the ecologicals... Why? Because it's about water, soil, air. It's the most natural thing to be there in agriculture. No, he has to be here where the building is. It is probably an excuse – and when it is built, it is built on the ground and above the ground, in the air, and probably by the shore where there is water. What's your criteria? So, a third. They have to be about the same in money, because the only measure of power is money. That's where you agreed. You know it's pointless what you've done, you know that this won't give you any results, but the money is that glue that's holding you. Just for the money. Someone to leave the government now that the sun has warmed Serbia? It'll take 600m euros to help. You know what a big cock is like here. You may dissipate those who are in power, but no one will stand down. So there's tenders, public procurement, so my friends, so my bank... This is the essence of policy dealing if you go towards the EU, as these are European standards – individualism, benefit, greed. It's being installed here as a system of values. Anything is possible, anything is allowed, if there is even an apparent immediate benefit. And that holds the water until the masters leave. Thanks for not getting my notice yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51624	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51625	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I present and explain this amendment, I must comment on my younger colleague, who, in my previous address, has been distracted by the fact that we, as SNS, submitted a proposal four months ago. The comment was that it didn't all start four months ago and it went backwards and according to the information law and the university, and I didn't say at all, I just made a point and I realized that we suggested it four months ago. And it didn't start in October 2000, it didn't all start in the summer of '90 or '80, it started in October 2000 and in the summer of '90. Not to go further, the point is that some changes happen without all starting any of those dates, because there is a previous tradition, history, and a lot of things that this isn't the place for discussion, but I couldn't help but comment because he was obviously a little irritated by a finding that was just a fact. And if we were to discuss the Law on Information and the Law on the University, I must now and say, and if we took many other experiences, there are other opinions, and then when some laws were passed, at that time the experiences of some other states, the same democratic states were used at that time and at that time the historical environment. Then there was another historical environment, and now there is another, and every event in one country is what happens in that same country, but also in the environment of geographical, political, economic and no exceptions, but all of this makes one mile of some historical events, democracy, moving forward. There are better experts, but I've taken a little time to comment on it and not to get into the debate, but still in line with that proposal that we've made before (I hope I won't irritate anyone) we've considered here the same thing as I've explained for the previous one, and as far as the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and Sports is concerned, that the logical doctrinal connection to be a ministry for, as we've suggested, the amendment, health, family and social and child protection. We believe that, as I just said before, any argument is really too high, because it's always a better function and organization to all of these areas that I've mentioned, all of them have one doctrinal connection, intertwination, and from that, again and again, what I've said, it's always a better function and organizations, so that, in this way, and the previous amendment, to that Article 12, and to this, to find a logical functional doctrinal connection and these two ministries, in the way we've proposed through these two amendments, to adopt. If this government won't, surely some future government will accept this, because the arguments are so strong that the listing, just by making a subtle argument for all these areas, could take hours. I'm finishing the discussion because the same comment to refuse, the government's decision is dry, and there's no other explanation for the refusal of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51626	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group took away. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51627	Dear Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and this amendment has a similar explanation to our previous amendments, is part of what we have tried to make an amendment to the improvement of a gender job called the non-existent reconstruction of the government. With this attempt to amend the law, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that our draft ministry law where there will be 12 ministries no one has taken seriously into consideration and we are very sorry that it is. This amendment concerns the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, and we have shown here in substance how one ministry can be established and how it can function effectively, because it is contained in all attributes of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, but it also contains provisions on the existence of the Directorate for Gender Equality within that ministry, as well as the Labour Inspectorate, which is detailed in its content and explanation. On the other hand, I also have to look back at our attempt to fix one of these barren jobs is covered by what is the feature of this whole business and everything that is happening today in the congregation. In fact, this government reconstruction is a cover for a political dispute between coalition partners, or God forbid it's just a political fight. No one has explained to us what rationalization is, what the effects of rationalization will be and what savings will be. We have not received adequate answers to these questions, or we have not received any answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51628	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51629	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 15. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr Ljajic, seems completely unnecessary to us. Apart from being able to strengthen its political party through social policy, i.e. social protection and social giving, this ministry has not achieved any shifts in the previous period, especially in the area of work. What is the state of work, what are the rights of employees today, what is the position of employees in Serbia today, and what work law we have in Serbia today, so that is disastrous. Start with today having salaries in businesses that are often between 15 and 20 thousand, having a completely unregulated area of overtime, where over 50,000 jobs are estimated to be lost just because people are exploited literally working 12 to 16 hours and Saturdays, without respecting those basic legal provisions, and labour inspection is not doing its job. We have a division today, unfortunately, of those who work in the state sector, who have guaranteed salaries that are higher than wages in the economy, which is extremely abnormal and you won't find it in any country, not because the economy gives small wages, the economy is on the market, but because it's the state's red tape. You have the fact that the average wage in the economy is 26,000 dinars, and in the economy, in the state administration, over 39,000 dinars, that today Serbia represents the country where the average of wages is the lowest in Europe, that we started to compare, at least when it comes to the cost of working in the economy, with Albania. It is obvious that Mr Ljajic did nothing in the previous period to improve the position of employees. Today in Serbia, work is no guarantee that you will not live in poverty. Today in Serbia, thousands of workers are going to work with a bun and tea were not some dinar to bring home to their children, providing them with a standard. The catastrophic situation, which is primarily blamed by this ministry and the obvious lack of interest of this ministry in the field of work, is the reason why the SNS has proposed that the area of work be attached to the economy, because it is something that is quite understandable. Work, the results of the work, the results of the economy should be evenly divided between the owners of the capital and the employees involved in the creation of the income. Therefore, this second part, social protection and social policy, which is a matter of Mr Ljajic's politics and politics, also has no reason to form such a ministry, there is no reason to have such a ministry. That part we suggested joining the Ministry of Health and Family, which is something quite understandable, which includes social protection. It seems to us that in this bill you have provided for a ministry that is purely political and for which there is no space at this time, in a situation where Serbia's economy is and when Serbian citizens are on the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51630	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 15. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 15a be added after Article 15a. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51631	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, when we proposed this amendment, we knew that it would not be accepted. There is only one reason why it is not accepted, which is an order of international factors that have decided, which have pressured the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia not to discuss refugee issues in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. That's the reason. When I said in the previous amendment what the essence of this amendment was, I pointed to basic problems that refugees have. A few days ago, I was talking about ignoring the refugee status and the problems they have and pointing to certain activities of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia that gave up a very financially significant inflow of funds to build 500 housing facilities for refugees. I only mention a case that is very well known to you, that the municipality of Zemun during the period when the president of the municipality was Professor Vojislav Seselj sold over 5,000 pay for the construction of residential buildings over a period of two to three years and built a municipal infrastructure from the funds of local self-government. You're acting the opposite of that. When an international financial institution, in this case, the Council of Europe Development Bank, approved a loan (it granted you a loan, only to mention, in 2006) amounting to 10m euros for building refugee facilities, people living in collective centres, which are excluded from electricity, deny food, etc., instead of withdrawing those funds, because they are very favourable, build housing facilities and act at least as our president did in the 1990s, when a huge number of refugees from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, when it had to be helped, and he helped, he did a human gesture, a godly gesture, you do the opposite, just because your employers ordered you not to do what I said before. What does the refugee Corps want, and why is this ministry necessary? Only what belongs to him under international law. You can't do that. You must not mention any convention, a declaration binding upon these national authorities. You must not mention two agreements in the talks with Croatia – the Social Insurance Agreement, which is not met by Croatia, should not mention the Agreement on Succesion, which gives Serbs Krajisniki the right to return them to 1990 and in national terms and in terms of property and social and other rights. What was done under the Sucession Agreement? Almost nothing. You can't mention it. Section G, which refers to acquired rights and private property, rather than being considered, that subcommittee that should consider Section G in this Agreement does not work for years and will probably not work. The water's leaving, the problems remain unresolved. There will be a new government to discuss this. That's why I call on the Krajis to think carefully about who they'll trust in the next election. You've been betrayed and left behind, and by the International Community, but, worst of all, you've been left behind by this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51632	A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the correction amendment. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51633	President, Mr. Minister in resignation, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment is a consequence of the amendment to Article 2, which we propose a completely different organisation of ministries. We propose 12 ministries and, behold, although we propose five fewer, when it comes to the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, we think that absolutely mining is incompatible with this and that is why we proposed in Article 2 of the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction, and as regards environmental protection, it naturally goes with the Ministry of Agriculture. To be absurd, the government tells us that this amendment, where we are changing the title of the ministry, instead of the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, is clear that we are referring to urbanism and construction, the government does not accept our amendment because it says that it is a more comprehensive amendment that has been accepted on this Article 16, which was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. Our amendment refers to the Ministry's name, because we think that this ministry organisation is not good, and Zivojin Stankovic, whose amendment you accepted and why you do not accept ours, says: "In the proposal for a law on ministries, in Article 16 paragraph 3, "geological research concerning the exploitation of mineral raw materials, except for groundwater" is replaced by the words "geological research concerning the exploitation of mineral raw materials". What does Mr. Stankovic's amendment have to do with the name of the ministry we're submitting the amendment to, I really don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51634	The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51635	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we come again to mining and energy. I hope the minister will pass on the problems that certain companies will soon have because of one of these laws. But the fact is, since October 5, that's what I have to say, we have some para-state organs all the time. So now, let's say, we have the Environmental Protection Agency, so we have the Environmental Protection Fund, we have the Mining Agency, so we have the Energy Efficiency Agency. Well, Mr. Minister, why didn't you write a law on government and ministries where he'd only be Prime Minister, a few ministers without portfolios, and the entire administration would trust the agencies? Because anyway, the departments don't do their jobs anymore, they do agencies and offices. Government, though, but that's how it is. If these are the liquids of the big revolution on October 5th, then it's an honor. The fact is, it's true that our proposal on government and ministries from December of last year doesn't start history. Someone said it doesn't even start on October 5th, and that's true. It is also true that those who are now the biggest advocates of democracy in 2003 have abolished parliamentary transfers from the lower building, and one has been Deputy Prime Minister. It is also true that you brought out MPs from the O.R. and punished MPs who were not even in the session that day, then he was head of the parliamentary group. Not to talk any further, there's a lot of things that are true. It is also true that the next elections will win the SNS, and it is true that then a newer history of a society that is better, more orderly and just than what we now have begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51636	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the correction amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51637	We think there should be a Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, not as you suggest -- the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. We think it's also clear on this case that many of the department's competences, as you suggest, overlap. This absolutely leads to more expensive administrations and more expensive states. We think that, especially during the economic crisis, we need to reduce public spending. We thought this was a chance to show at least the intention to go that way. Unfortunately, since it has not been shown, we have tried to tell you that this will not yield the result objectively to Serbia, which is less and cheaper, and the more efficient state, but will give the result that we have so far, and if someone is satisfied with the result so far, he probably wants to continue that path. As far as I can tell, it's you, Mr. Markovic, and the government you represent here in resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51638	The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 17 by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted an amendment with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment, a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Sir I'll stay, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51639	If we have proposed an amendment to Article 2 of the repeal of the Ministry of KiM, then we must certainly propose that the title be abolished. We absolutely believe that there is no room for this ministry in the government, because, ultimately, KIM is part of Serbia under the Constitution. We don't see what the ministry would be if you'd already obey the Constitution. We respect him, too, but why would there be a ministry? What doesn't have the Ministry of Vojvodina? Next, it's not politics, it's money, money. Simply, this huge government, this kind of ministry, which, in principle, you all know has not responded to expectations (that we are not going back to the past now, what was happening and how money was spent there), there is no place in some new government that we stand for and a new organisation of the state administration that we stand for. We're sorry that at least on that case you haven't shown that at least you're thinking less, cheaper and more efficient states.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51640	A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51641	I will defend this amendment with our solution, where we wanted to show both a principled and honest relationship with the problems and specificity of the part of the territory of the Serbian state, where only formally it shows greater concern with the existence of a special ministry, and we all know well at this home that we also had huge discussions on the abuses of funds that were meant to solve specific problems at KIM. Since this ministry is now doing jobs that are not at all the jobs that the special ministry is set up for, so the KIM Ministry does not carry out any specific tasks, it does not have any particular work, because the needs of both citizens and local communities in this territory are being completed and resolved within the competence of other ministries, we believe that this ministry currently has the role of some coordinator of the affairs of all other ministries, which cannot be the jurisdiction of either the ministry or any authority of the administration. It's the government's job and jurisdiction, as a collective body. A more correct solution, according to us, is to establish an office that would monitor the work of the ministries in the exercise of each ministry, but in the part of KIM territory, means part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, given that the situation is indeed specific, and that would enable the Government, we are confident that it is fully directly coordinating the work of all ministries in a much more efficient way and at a higher level, and what is also the goal is that it is not only at less cost, but with less mediators and with the elimination of abuse, what is called abuse of someone's torment, someone's fate, but also with abuse of funds available to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We believe that the hypocritical solution is that there is a ministry that only requires additional costs and that the way we have proposed would be much more effective and useful, above all for the citizens of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51642	A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the correction amendment. Mr. Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51643	In the new organisation of the ministries, we have proposed the abolition of the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Diaspora, and you are proposing a merger into one ministry and I assume that the minister will be one of the diaspora, not this one of the religions. An absolutely unnecessary ministry (really, the jobs to be done in this ministry should not be at the level of the ministry) is another proof, conditionally said, of the way this law was done, that is, in which the government was reconstructed. I would not now like to remind myself that it is the Ministry of Diaspora, with a new minister who will be in charge and for the faith, to adopt a document that caused a storm in our neighbours in the environment, where we ask that Serbs get constitutionality in one country such as Montenegro, a civil state, and not to give parts of the people who are not Serbian and living here in Serbia to be constitutive, but to call others, and even the president of the party of that minister who will obviously remain in the government, surprised that this minister from his party could suggest it to the government when it is the opposite of that party's policy, common sense, and certainly it must be the opposite of what this government wants to say and to present that the pro-European government that has cleared with the past, and the strategy proposed everything else is just not to be cleared with the past. Hence, we think that this is really another proof of the flea market that lasted during the government reconstruction, where the problems produced by the Ministry of Faith, and not to talk about what happens to the Islamic community and so on, where the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Diaspora join together into one, I guess, even bigger problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51644	The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51645	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, and finally this debate in detail on the law on ministries proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I urge you to read carefully the draft law on the ministries that it has submitted to the assembly procedure by the MP group "Forward, Serbia" of the SNS. In the spirit of the bill is the amendment, which clearly shows that the diaspora ministry should not exist as a special ministry. All the jobs of this ministry are basically in the jurisdiction of other ministries, where cultural, informative, educational and public administration affairs are concerned, and as everyone knows, there are competent, or resolution ministries for these tasks. Instead of a special SNS ministry, it suggests that co-ordination of ministry activities should be carried out by the government's office which would also maintain ties with diaspora organisations and propose to the ministries to take appropriate measures and plan activities. We want to change Serbia's policy towards Serbs in the diaspora. Not a small number of Serbs living in the diaspora are estimated to have more than 3.5 million. I welcome what has been brought in, although missing, the Diaspora Act, and I welcome that the Diaspora Assembly is formed, but I think it is not enough to say diaspora – here, you have the Ministry of Diaspora, and now we ask you to invest in Serbia because of patriotism. The SNS wants the government's diaspora office to form in co-ordination with the ministries of culture, education, information and state administration to strengthen diaspora ties with the queen and to create conditions and climate in which the diaspora will invest in Serbia in order to create jobs for friends and relatives who are in Serbia, in the queen, left out of work, but also to achieve a certain profit and profit. And this amendment, like all SNS amendments, you refused. So let's go to an extraordinary parliamentary election, so let's see what the diaspora says about the policy you've been leading for the last 11 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51646	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 23. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 26. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 28 and 28. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment with the correction was filed by a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51647	Since this is the consequence of all our amendments so far, just a few notes. We regret that the government's reconstruction has not been used to change policy. If there was no power to use it, then we regret that it was not used for saving and creating a more efficient government with 12 ministries, as we suggested in April 2009. In these few sentences, I've used the term "I'm sorry" three or four times. In the end, you will regret it, it is not disputed, and you should regret it, however, it is unfortunate that your behaviour is two and a half years old and the announcement that this will end could compromise the idea of a European modern-developed Serbia. That's what we'll all regret. The fact that you haven't shown consciousness, strength, vision, the will to change something, it's your thing after all. However, your failure can be devastating to all of us. That's why I'm sorry you didn't take the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51648	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 36. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 36 by MP Zivojin Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word. You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51649	Four minutes is enough to tell anything that's enough. All the best on this bill were said by ZES MPs, MPs of this Chanko party, MPs of the Youth Party, I don't know what it's called now. They've submitted amendments. And for God's sake, Bosko Ristic's got something going on. You've seen, a little bit, the Justice Committee. And Zivojin's got a record. I don't know what this is. Do you trust the government of the Republic of Serbia so much when you leave? You've been supporting that government for three years. Now, all of a sudden, they just snap their heads and see that nothing's wrong, and now, under the resignations, you have to change them. It's an old test joke. It goes with the bill, and then the majority MPs submit the amendments, the amendments are adopted here, not going to the discussion and practically devalue all possible amendments submitted by opposition parties in the meantime. This member shall regulate the date on which this law enters into force. Now the question is whether more provisions are in force in the Constitution that say – the earliest of the eighth day since the publication. I think that, according to the number of laws we have passed and the text of the last member of all these laws, what it says in the Constitution is an exception, and it's the day of publication or the next day. That's what statistics show. So, the statistics say you're tight. It has to be done quickly, efficiently, as soon as possible in the EU, and then we see that there is no obligation. You haven't even translated into the languages of the European Union. I don't convince you, I know you know it very well. I convince this few people watching this transmission, to see that it's very difficult to catch you when you're right, but what you can't do wrong, it's not always you. So I'm just saying, don't believe them when they talk. Of course, with the best intentions is formed the Ministry of Diaspora, and now we hear everyone – it's not good. With the best intentions was made, the Ministry of Faith entered, you remember, so on and so forth, we hear – it's no good. So, everything you've been bragging about, after a while, it's no good. It's no good, it's no good, it's no good. It doesn't work all the time. Of course the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is no good when the head of the ministry is a man who is the first Serb to enter the transitional institutions of that Kosovo, you know. Of course he's not answering. I and today have a dilemma about whether he is Tadic or Thaci's minister. Of course there's something wrong with that ministry when you have a secretary of state and a minister who doesn't talk. How? You had Chiplic and that Karadzic there. They don't talk either, they fight, etc. It's all a European standard, please. It's not there, it all fits, it's all a European standard. Why do I think it takes eight days? It takes eight days for this law to come into force for you to make some agreements during that period, to swear (it is an oath that does not mean anything in Serbia), to consolidate your ranks, because it is much better than that, let's say, I am at peace. If I were to calm you down, I'd put you all in CZ, and then one cell -- the youth minister, the other cell -- the finance minister, the third... And every once in a while I pull out into the hallway and say, "Well, come on, now, come on, you got a deal?" Fuck you? Oh, my mother, did you sign? I signed - and only then informed the public that it could be something. I think that eight-day period should be used to, no matter what the transitional provisions give some deadlines, etc., what stops, when it starts...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51650	It's been four minutes and a little more. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51651	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, when someone from the DS and the ruling majority submits amendments to the legislative proposal that the government makes, we show first and foremost that Parliament chose the government and the government did not elect Parliament. Perhaps some other political parties have different behaviours and different treatment towards the government, perhaps they act as if the government had chosen them, but while we are here, in this assembly, in this majority, the Democratic Party, the United Regions of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia, our coalition partners, we will act as parliamentary rules require, which is that we choose the Government, not the Government of us, and that the Government suits us, and not the Government. Maybe some want to be the government's flow water heater and the government's flow water heater. Maybe some people just want to be government service. But, on the other hand, when some talk about the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, they should first stand in front of the mirror and write on the mirror the words of their leader, who said – if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, we will withdraw from politics for life. I am no one's conscience here, I didn't have to be here, I'm not even a witness keeper and a memory of someone's actions, but I want to say that thanks to the current Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, thousands of Serbian citizens who are barely resisting Kosovo because of these and such sentences, that thanks to the engagement of Mr Goran Bogdanovic, as Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. I am responsible for this because I was a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and together with my coalition partner, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, from the SPS, I've been to KIM a hundred times to visit these people, to share fate with them, to see how these people live. Thanks to the efforts made by the KIM Ministry and the entire Serbian government today live and survive there, because if it were not for this ministry and not for Minister Bogdanovic, who is related to KIM, the situation would be far more difficult and far worse. If the government of the Republic of Serbia hadn't been responsible for KIM's policies right now and that some others, who would have put us in Central Prison cells so that we can negotiate from there, sit in those cells because of what they did to this country and this people and that in time they moved into these cells, there might not be a NATO on KIM. I support the strong government of the Republic of Serbia. I won't vote for these amendments, but I will certainly vote for this law. I believe that everyone who speaks of the government of the Republic of Serbia in this way, the necessity of the ministers being locked up in cells so that they can negotiate there, talk about their own correction, their own desires, and to make them behave as if they were in the government. If you ever get a chance to be in the government, go ahead and pass government laws and so choose the ministries. While we who have taken responsibility to govern this country, we ministers and ministries will choose here, in this House, in the way that all the civilized world does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51652	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51653	I am very pleased when the gromada, the size, the main ideologist of the Democratic Party comment on something I said within the time period intended for the amendment, without knowing what the amendment reads. Mr. Martinovic's amendment was written in accordance with the Constitution, a constitutional provision prescribed. Let me remind you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. No problem, someone may not like the Constitution, and it's no wonder, but today we've heard what DS's position, the DS chief leader, the ideologist, is what they stand for, how nice, nice, and I don't know why we're changing these laws. Why should we choose new ministers now if everything is so nice and nice? If you're wondering who might be the minister, what should the government look like, you've been wondering three years ago, what are you changing these people? You can see they're from God to give people. Who are you? The EU says they are the best, and you will change them. There's something wrong with you. And I especially love it when my discussion is inspiring, so someone from the U.S.S. says no more G17 plus, but says the U.S.S. You see what kind of transformation that is, in no time, and on the list were G17 plus. The best thing is when you talk, it is best when you boast about epochal results – I have achieved success. Do you know how much cleaner televisions are after that previous show? All the things that spit it out, now they've wiped it out. You know? But this is huge progress. A man no longer boasts of becoming a member of the library.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51654	Right on line, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51655	I will not answer to an SRS MP, because the SRS parliamentary group was the group that took the oath with all hands and praised its fellow ideologists this morning. Even, as we heard today, an associate of William Montgomery tried to run for president of Serbia. You know, today when I hear who the SRS parliamentary group has been running for president of Serbia, I'm horrified. I can think of what we'll hear the next day when the SRS finds a new candidate for president of Serbia. Because as that divide spreads among them, as that crack opens, that ambience opens, in which they fail, in which they try to pull the whole of Serbia... You know, every day I hear some horror, some horror, but that horror is nothing to me. He's scary for Serbian citizens. I leave to the SRS their problems, which they have inside themselves, and we from the URS, the ZES and the SPS may have something that divides us in the past, but we have a lot that brings us together and brings us closer together in the future. It is a desire to live in this country with the life of a decent man, to share European values together and to cross over the political heritage left to us by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-11-0.u51656	Thank you. The replica circle is over. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. You don't have the right to a replica, Mr. Krassic, and you don't have time anymore, you used it. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 11 March 2011, starting at 15.00 hours, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, all 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 5a be added after Article 5a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 5b be added after article 5. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 6 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled for the vote of the amendments. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a 6. The bill envisions that this law enters into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in general. Of the 129 People's Messengers, they all pleaded. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Government Act. We move to a statement on item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MINISTRATIVES LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 12 MPs to the LDP parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 16 is for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please let us plead. Of the 129 MPs, 127 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Please let us plead as well. Of the 129 MPs, 127 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the correction amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 8. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 20 is in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Article 10th and Article 10th of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond put together the title above Article 11 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 124 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 125 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 18 is in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, one is in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, one is in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 15. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 128 is in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 15a be added after Article 15a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the correction amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, the amendment voted 16. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 23. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 12 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 26. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 28 and 28. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. A group of 12 MPs from the LDP parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Chapter V. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, the amendment voted 16. I find this amendment not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 36th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 12 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 36. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one is for. I'm guessing we haven't accepted the amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I'm guessing we haven't accepted the amendment. I remind you it's article 39. The bill envisions that this law enters into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on ministers in general to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. At the same time, and on the basis of Article 101(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 will continue on Monday, 14 March 2011, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation.
