ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65018	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the meeting and to determine the number of MPs. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their parliamentary identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. In order to determine whether there is a Rules of Procedure, a quorum of at least 84 Members of Parliament, registered in the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the electronic system of 86 MPs is with its identification card and that another number of MPs are present in the hall. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dr Oliver Dulic, environment and spatial planning minister and Neboja Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, called for the sittings to be attended by Vesna Hreljac, the finance minister's assistant. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 10th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE COMMERCIAL BANK A.D. BELGRAD FOR THE NEEDS OF THE BUYING OF THE AIRENGINEERING BUILDING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF UNCOMMODATION WORKS ON THE PURPOSE OF THE FIRST BASE COURT IN BELED. Point 10 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE COMMETIONAL BANK A.D. BELGRADE FOR THE NEEDS OF THE BUYING OF THE AIRENGINEERING BUILDING BUDGET AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF AUTHORITY ON THE FUTURE OF THE FIRST BASE COURT IN BEDRADGE. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tosković, Dragan Colić and Dragan Šormaz. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the amendment, which is the first in line to search in detail, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that our work today will lead to the conclusion of the debate on the search in the particulars which has just been opened, and then we will also move on to the examination of the specifics of the Constitutional Court's draft law and after the conclusion of this debate in particular, we will finish our work for today, and if necessary we will be working after 18.00 hours, and until the completion of the search in the details of the draft law on the Constitutional Court. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65019	I'm sorry, we didn't get an opinion, he wasn't at the MP's club last night, and this morning because of the traffic, I didn't get to look at it, but I don't think it's gonna make any difference with the amendments. I want first of all to say that otherwise, the view that it is not to be owed when it is not necessary and that reforms should be implemented in a way that is known to apply that definition, that they change in themselves if they don't make any improvements, really mean nothing. We have put amendments in a way that is reflected in the task of judicial reform, and that we change positively, not that we can't see, but even suffer the consequences of one too fast and unmeasured, according to the results of judicial reform. First of all, we suggested that the accommodation of these remaining judges, those who received a transitional assessment and who should do all the work envisaged by the reform, be placed in a building that would be conditional, and here is the subject of construction, or according to the government's proposal to adapt one building from the new 110 courts, which is for anyone who knew and only had the opportunity to see the Aeroengineering building, simply impossible. To build 110 courtrooms that would be suitable for the work of the judge and the essence of the amendment to Article 1 is not to be as the title carries, "The law on the purchase of the Aeroengineering Building and the implementation of the necessary works", but to make the bill "for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building" to be deleted and replaced by the words "for building a building". The government has the powers, the assets, the departments that give the permits, are able to implement the procedure very quickly, there are real estates located across the river in New Belgrade, where in a legal process that would certainly take much shorter time, a new building could be built, because what it is, Aeroengine, is a building that, according to its architectural and technical characteristics, will absolutely not be able to adapt to the needs of the court, any creative and most modern adaptation. The building is very derelict, old one, and there's absolutely nothing in it since the construction itself. The price of the purchase and the useful area of the building is not listed in the explanation of the proposal, but we came to these figures indirectly, but sources say the word is nine, nine, five thousand square meters, so the purchase is agreed by eight million euros, or approximately 850 euros per square metre of the total area. The figure was drawn from the reasoning of the law, where fivem euros are said to be foreseen for the building's adaptation, as the total value of the 13m-euro debt is in dinar equivalent. The price of adaptation is not indicated in terms of what it would mean, even in general, but it is the price of adaptation that is mentioned in the construction of the price of social housing. So what Mr. Dulic is doing to support the construction industry and what is really possible to do, that is 500 euros per square metre, and that is only foreseen here as the value of adaptation for these purposes. It is particularly disputed whether the pregnant structure of the building can, given the characteristics and age, withstand the refurbishing and such size of construction works. So I think a far better solution is to build a brand-new building, which will be designed according to the needs of the court. We all know that courts and banks are for example. Especially dedicated buildings that need to be monitored. The court must have a vault to keep valuables, it must have counters, it must have waiting rooms for parties and it really isn't easy or it's not easy to adapt any building to these specific purposes. In line with the use of modern technologies, the electronic equipment of courtrooms, a special problem is setting up power supply and computer equipment, and we know that it is necessary that every courtroom, judge, notary at least has a computer that would have to have all the accompanying connections, which simply cannot be provided in a building that is that age of construction. What I'm saying is I know perfectly well, because the ten-year experience of someone who's been working on the adaptation and equipment of telecommunications facilities tells me that sometimes the costs of adapting non-conditional objects, the planned costs for such purposes, have been exceeded. For the planned amount of funds, as provided for by law, you can get 13,000 square meters of a brand-new space. Please keep in mind the difference. So, nine and a half thousand is about an estimate of square meters, as much as it owns the Aeroengine building, but for this price as a credit line, it would get 13,000 square meters of a brand new space, which is fully tailored to the needs of the court in terms of courtrooms, cabinets of judges, office offices, archives and all other spaces needed and necessary for the work of the court and the arrival and stay of parties, as well as the corresponding parking. There are plenty of open spaces in New Belgrade that significantly facilitate easier access, and now that would not be a problem for those parties that come from the right side of the Sava, especially after the bridge is over Ade. I think that, given the arguments made in this amendment, we should really consider and give up on this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65020	Five minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65021	Mrs. Comic, what time do we have for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65022	The parliamentary group's time is 68 minutes and 24 seconds, the time of authorised MP Dejan Mirovic is 15 minutes. Since no member of your parliamentary group has submitted an amendment, then you do not have two minutes to use as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65023	Okay. We have to fit in in these 68 minutes. I hope I fit in. We had a big dilemma about writing amendments to this bill. It's said that the amendment needs to improve something, but how can this be improved? That's a lot of trouble. Then we simply said in the principle debate how we feel about this bill. Now, Mrs. Comic, I must commend the promoter to know the math, eight plus five is 13. Eightm euros plus fivem euros, that's 13m euros. It's already an epic thing, since the DOS of power that mathematics is in place. So 10,000 square meters of building costs eight million euros, 800 euros per square, and reconstruction will cost another five million. This brings up a 13m-euro number. But the problem is that the state needs to be in charge, and this country has already crossed 45% of GDP in its borrowing. Then the question arises – do we have the right to do this? Could the bill promoter have delivered something like this to the National Assembly in the first place? Because, in the Budgetary System Act, when it comes to 45% of GDP, all red lights are lit and the state is required to take emergency measures, special measures are required to take government and special measures to take the National Assembly. One of these special measures that the National Assembly should take is to return very culturally to Mr Cvetkovic this bill and to be told – Mr Cvetkovic, the law adopted by the National Assembly prohibits borrowing, but the same law orders the National Assembly to take immediate action. Here, one of these urgent measures is to return the bill to you. He can't get into congregation procedure. Why can't he? There's an increase in debt above that line. We are not Greece, Germany, Italy, those in the EU, they can be owed up to 65% of GDP. However, Greece, as you saw 120%. So something with their standards is wrong. Germany 189%, Italy 200%, not to mention these other countries. It's bad company for us. We can't look at them, we can't act like them. They took too long and printed so much money. The crisis in the euro zone is only because of uncontrolled printing. That's what they told us - the primary show replaced by borrowing. It's not a neck. It's a neck. You're still wasting what you don't have, wasting your future. Mrs. Comic, we can't waste the future. Do you have the opportunity to solve the problem of space for this First Basic Court? You have options. Where are those options? How empty he sounds in Belgrade. How much he's turning empty. Here, move the Crown Street. So you can give a solution, you can find a solution. Here, one of the solutions is to talk to your American friends and to get some of the funds they have allocated to their residence, the embassy, to get those buildings that are located across the street from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, those monuments of NATO crimes. There's plenty of room there. It can be renovated, it doesn't need that much money. Secondly, nothing costs us, your friends who bombed us, they pay for it, to improve their relations with the Serbian people. You have another option, move everything out of the SIV and move the court to SIV. If the SIV building could be for that great Yugoslavia, you can do it here. Then you have this empty building of the Belgrade Bank, I think, on the Green Venice. You've got a big building there, too. Then you can go to the Deposit Insurance Agency, I think it was CEO Jambic, and see what happened to that business space that used to be used by SDK, banks in bankruptcy, etc. So there's space, there's space. I don't know why these 13m euros are important for the election campaign. Why is this 13m-euro Commercial Bank important for the election campaign? I don't know. So, there are solutions, but here is the European standard -- in charge, in debt, in debt, in debt. So I'm telling you that this bill should be returned to Mr Cvetkovic and he should be distracted that this National Assembly has passed the Budget System Act. Under the budget system law, when public debt comes to 45% of GDP, lights are on, no more borrowings, borrowing is prohibited. We will not experience the fate of Greece or Italy. You've seen when the state takes too long what fate is, then a small group of people gather in Brussels, and they say, Papandreou, you can't be Prime Minister anymore, and then you put your official in office as Prime Minister, past the election, beyond anything else. Same with Berlusconi. Berlusconi doesn't respond, an official from the European administration comes and sets him up. I would ask you, Mrs. Comic, to take a break, ask the Prime Minister if he is seriously still standing at this point that Serbia should be in debt. I just can't believe you're building suites for judges, and then every judge will have a courtroom, a bathroom, a guest room. Then calculate how much the price of a square meter will be. From 800 euros, it will jump to 1300 euros. Excuse me, please, with 1,300 euros you will buy an unmatched quality space called the apartment. This is still business space. There's a toilet all over the floor, not in every courtroom. As far as I know, in the EU, in countries which are EU judges, they do not have cabinets with toilets, bathrooms, jacuzzi etc. Or, here, they have to do a little bit, a little bit so they can wash themselves probably because of the dirt when they make some judgments. This is irrational. This is a throwaway. This is a gallant waste of money. Mr. Maric read a few days ago about how this borrowing was going, how much per minute you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how much you owed the citizens per session, how much per month, per year, etc. People can't take that debt anymore. Serbia can't take it anymore. It owes 3,000 and some euros per capita. If only that 3,000 euros, the head of the population took from someone from abroad and from the day-to-day, but no one took anything, and the rest of the debts. Who left him with his debts? You. For what? You're transforming the judiciary. Here, I'll help you negotiate with the Americans, the English and the NATO pact, to collect what you owe me. I'm offering you free help, to get them to pay for what they've done, to compensate for that damage, and we could get those buildings there, to take out that Sutjeska, you know that Department of Defense, so that this Sutanavac doesn't break down with some catacombs there. There's plenty of room. Do you know how many offices there are? You have S.I.V. That's where the cabinets are big. Any cabinet can be a big courtroom. There are 150 square-square cabinets, the right courtroom, so the public can come, be present. Here, let's put Serbia in charge, let's put Serbia in charge, and we've come to 27 billion euros in debt. It's that public debt. Of these, three billion never entered Serbia, but remained in America, Great Britain and Germany. It's that unwarranted deal where the money was given to the National Bank to keep it a course, that is, that foreign banks be protected as the media. It's a bad policy and you have no right to owe more. Please return this bill from the procedure because there are no formal terms here to discuss this. If we talked any further, then we could just spread this dust and see what the real background of this operation is, who's going to reconstruct it. You know for a fact that the father of Slobodan Homena boasts and says – take care of what you do, you know that my son is a secretary at the Ministry of Justice and then they have to give the man a job. The same thing Dulic's family does. We have to tell the public, and you rub your head, do whatever you want. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for the rest of you, as soon as possible to Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65024	It was used 12 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65025	One elemental question arises: if we reduce the number of employees in any body and we do a reorganisation that needs to contribute to more efficient use of funds and if the fewer people are willing to do more work, the question is why do we need more space? I can speak of it in full argument, with the fact that I am willing to accept and the remark that someone tells me – you praise the house you come from. I've been busy at Telecom for over 10 years. "Telecom" entered such a reorganisation that the modernisation meant fewer people, people were leaving work, but every reorganization of extra space that was no longer needed "Telecom" meant the signing and correction of the Agreement with the mail, the Public Business "Post of Serbia" around the space that we use to rent and record extra space, and so correctly that we are with our founder of the space that is attractive to new services, I am talking about New Sad because of where I come from, we have always given up places that are attractive to them to develop new services, lower floors, communication with users etc. It didn't happen that from a building that was very old and wasn't built for the purposes of accommodation of Telecom and PTT, and most of all, we called some pigeon shops, without a lot of lights, etc. We separate for the offices, for what we are legally required to keep as documentation, etc. But we didn't pay for any extra space or leases that we didn't need. Now I ask that same question and this is state property, the state is co-owner of Telecom, and here the state is a direct owner – why are the same criteria of space management, using funds, not equal? The team, which is a direct budget user, should be subject to the rule of savings and effective use of funds. If this reorganisation leads to a smaller number, which it is, the people who are going to work, I don't see any reason why the two buildings of the municipal court, which we've mentioned here as an opportunity to solve this issue, don't go for sale. That's what people do when they buy a new apartment. They sell, with the possibility of moving out the moment this new building is finished and then moving those two municipal courts buildings, Fourth, Fifth, as we predicted here, into a newly built building and absolutely doesn't have a job, and you're not going into an arrangement where, that other contract party that wants to buy these two attractive buildings, has something unprejudiced, or is doing some service to the state, court, or anyone. It is a single proposal that is completely realistic, which implies that the state does not enter into new borrowing, but I am afraid that the story of excessive borrowing is only one imitation of responsibility when said – no, we will take care of it. Mr. Cvetkovic, even at the announcement of the new budget, said – we will probably enter that critical zone, but then we will have to make a new plan. I have here a story about a loan in the economy, instead of a state charter, which looks like an event that happened a week ago where it was also discussed with bankers and the need for money to be invested in the economy. At the time Jelasic was the governor, 2009, the end of the year, and meant the lending and plans of the government and the National Bank of Serbia in 2010. So, he sits down, and someone makes a nice living at the organization of these meetings, so people take pictures, talk, and if business gets loans, instead of money going to state records, we all know it together, where we can celebrate that this year we've even issued charters for the euro, at a time when it's just for the economy of this kind of power, like ours, it's not right. That's exactly why we've submitted these amendments. She can't talk about something like good plans and awareness of what kind of situation we're in, to stay at the symposium, in a press statement, and in a story that won't result in a concrete legislative project, where these good intentions are to go where they belong and to save themselves in the right way, not exactly applied here on these laws. In addition to this observation that, instead of borrowing and buying a non-conditional building where it should be covered, I say, another failure by the Privatisation Agency, which has failed on several occasions to save this building even as "Aeroengineering" in bankruptcy sales, we now need to save the bad business decisions of an individual and be the cost of a state paying citizens. As long as there is collective responsibility, not individual guilt for a bad decision made, no one will come to their senses and act more responsibly. The discussion of this and the amendments, they weren't aware that you would adopt our amendments, but it really doesn't matter when you're told in public that you didn't have to go this way, you don't have to go a new debt, we're not ready for it, and you're still insisting on it. We're making a reform of the judiciary, but we still have a surplus cost, where judges who are not re-elected or newly elected are being prevented from working and are still being paid. It's coming from the budget again, because there's no other source, there's no other funds, there's no other white, yellow, black, any of which would make these things worth it. The particular problem is that this job was done this way. The reform of the judiciary was a topic of all committees, all European forums that wanted to help Serbia join the EU. There's a lot that's been hidden about it, a lot of things have been kept quiet. Some spoke too loudly and were disqualified. I will pay particular attention to the way this loan was made to the Commercial Bank, whose offer was chosen as the most favourable offer for the loan service. Since the introduction of the 2002 Law on Public Procurement, the fundamental intention to expand competition by introducing this law and allow everyone to participate in the procedures of offering their goods, which is the achievement of democracy in the market economy, which is that everyone has the opportunity to offer their goods and to get a job on equal terms and to earn money. The law on public procurement is simply a mockery. When someone else does it, when people who aren't so visible in public's eyes do it, they're not allowed to do it either, I'm not saying it's tolerable, but this is getting sassy. When a negotiation procedure is applied in this way and you say that these are extraordinary circumstances and unforeseen events that have caused urgency and when you say that the occurrence of this event could not be suspected and that it does not depend on the will of the client, then it becomes ridiculous. You are saying that the contracting authority, or the Government, could not act within the deadlines provided for the open procedure in which all of them should be tenderers, or at least restrictive, and that famous Article 24 paragraph 1 point 4 is re-abused. In a notice of choice of the most favourable offer, what we could see on the public procurement portal as of November 28th, it is justified to apply such a negotiating procedure in the following way. The Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia for the purposes of the Justice Ministry, the First Basic Court in Belgrade, on June 27th of this year with the company "Aeroengineering" d.o.o. the sale contract for movable and immovable assets was concluded in bankruptcy but the annex was extended to the buy-in agreement of 23 September 2011, which extended the deadline for payment of the purchase price until 30 November 2011. Given that today is December 23rd, whether we are talking about a thing that is no longer possible for realisation at all, if this annex deadline is expired and the contract is not completed, or we can consider that, because of the procedure launched only on November 3rd as urgent, it can be considered that there is a basis for it to continue to be concluded, this is a particular question. A purchase price of 800 million and Article 3 has been agreed. The 2011 budget law of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the end of 2010, envisions that this procurement be part of programme loans and should not have surprised anyone, nor could business obstacles delay the resolution of this public procurement and its implementation, which was only launched on November 3rd. If the proposer of this law, he said, had provided that this loan would be granted if, for the execution of the necessary works on the recovery and adaptation of the facilities for the purposes of the First General Court in dinars of billions and 300 million and 200 thousand dinars, or in the original currency of 13m euros, all of this had been foreseen, if the Government had reached its conclusion on the acquisition of the state property of the Aeroengineering building on 24 February, if on 27 June this same republican directorate with the company Aeroengineering had concluded a contract on the purchase of mobile and immovable property, why was it left to initiate the procedure on 3 November? It's precisely to play the Public Procurement Act, because the appearance of the fact that it's been lost almost a year in two phases of a procedure that can't be dragged around like that, not one process can see anything. It's not even the birth of a child, it's not a crop, it's not even a beating of a hero, so it's gonna take a certain period of time. It's a file that's been made sooner or later in two weeks or a week. So, knowingly playing the negotiation process in a procedure that is non-transparent, which actually prevents competition, disqualifies the government more than just borrowing, especially when you keep in mind that in the report of the Public Procurement Administration for the first six months of irregularities in the conduct of public procurement procedures, for others who are obliged to apply the procedure, the total amount that the Public Procurement Administration has learned is one billion and four hundred million dinars, and the Government itself in one business has made such a failure to do an irregularity, a violation worth a billion and three hundred thirty-one million in the basic contract, the question is - is that and how much will it exceed these costs in real realization? We wonder, then, who can the government ask to obey rules or laws? In the principle debate, I said that the least he had to do, it was that the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Finance Committee, delivered a report on this negotiated process and made public their opinion on the basis and regularity of this procedure. We all know that along with many of the newly founded mafias, this so-called, so-called, The mob in public procurement that prevented the objections from concluding the contract, so someone who was actually not interested in getting a job knows that he was taking part in the open procedure, said an objection that stopped the process itself and many resorted to this procedure, a negotiating or conscious violation of the law, in order to avoid being prevented within a certain period of time by someone. Many have managed to make promises to such a mob that was entering their proceedings, to promise them other jobs, and to pay them in various other ways. It's a process that many who have participated in tenders etc., these falsified bidders or financial buyers, those who play it or for someone's purposes are doing it to raise the price in some procedure, but that can't happen with the state. Who could appear to the state as someone who would come out with an offer without being a serious bidder at the same time, and who could object to this type of complaint to stop the procurement process, which is why the state has consciously entered this procedure? So all the arguments that could justify the state for conducting such a procedure simply don't exist. In addition, the question arises as to why the proposal provides for nothing in relation to the loan plan, with the plan and the amount of the loan, with the elements of the credit claim, because the documentation is always an integral part of the implementation of the procurement procedure. So you can never go out with any new conditions or he has a request for you and that it was not already the subject of an agreement in the public procurement process. Given that the deadline was for paying the purchase price on November 30th, I have a dilemma whether the government was already in late, whether it would withdraw some heavy interest, but in any case, as was the rapid reform of the judiciary which did not give rise to positive effects, in the same way this procedure that was applied to the purchase of the building through the loan was disqualified and many who, I believe, were doing the right thing in public procurement and I cannot claim that all contracting entities in the public procurement process were on state property or on some other basis, because they have most of the representatives of the state on their board or financed from public funds, that any of them were doing this. So, by pointing out this bad example, I don't want to say for a moment that everyone in this way abuses the Public Procurement Act, not at all, but this case has done everyone harm, and I think this should be done by the number of people in some other ministries and by the ruling coalition, not allowing them to suffer the consequences and shame and damage of what only one ministry does, because collective guilt doesn't exist, they can't all be bad, nor can they all be good. This law has indeed shown a very superficial, impertinent and inapplicable practice that would have to be prevented and the reason why we are talking about it is precisely that, once again, to show that this country has no will to apply the Public Procurement Act, there is no will to adopt this law. If anyone wonders if they are making Comic something special to me because from Novi Sad, no, I only very much respect the knowledge, diligence and work and carry with me, along with the unfulfilled conditions for EU accession, a question that you, Mrs Komic, have asked your government in good time on 13 May as an MP for the ruling party, where you have sought what they have not done and what is the reason for changing and supplementing the National Integration Programme for the EU and, above all, under one, you have sought what is with the strategy for the development of public procurement in the Republic of Serbia. You asked May 13th, May 16th, the answer went, they answered very quickly, the densely typed text that is coming on ten pages, signed by Vice-President Ivica Dacic, many things have not been done, something has been done, but what they have not taken seriously, as opposition from Serbian citizens, does not matter whether it is asked by the ruling party MP or whether I am talking about it from this aspect, as an MP of the opposition party, this is a pity for the state of Serbia and this compromises all of us together. I have no intention of taking anyone's time on Friday, but I don't want to take away the reputation of Serbia and that's why these amendments have been submitted, and that's why I reiterated some of the arguments I made in the principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65026	The time at your disposal as deputy president of the parliamentary group and four minutes from the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65027	Mrs. Komic, all these amendments are practically the same content, to enter a new text "for building a building", so what I'm going to talk about concerns all these members where this is mentioned. To begin with, I have to draw attention that this thing with Aeroengineering is a long-standing public matter and that the sale of air engineering cannot possibly be something that the public will not notice, not only because bankruptcy is open, but because the whole problem has been taken over by the Privatisation Agency, because it is the bankruptcy manager in the image of Dragan Perkovic. There was advertising. One advertising was last year – the sale of movable and immovable assets by means of a method of public collecting written offers, so it allegedly failed. What we're talking about today, it was an ad sales of property by direct contract. There aren't any strangers here. Net surface – 7,800 square meters and has something off-book property rights, 1,670 and something, and when all of this is added up it is 9,471 square meters. What the public also knows, can't be avoided, that it's really a dilemma about how that bankruptcy was opened, what that woman judge was doing, because the blockade was under a million dinars. What is also known, it was announced, last year when the "Aeroengineering" building in New Belgrade was sold, it was said to be about 9.5 thousand square meters, with an initial price of about 12m euros, and a 520m-square villa in Krunje 76, in Belgrade, at a starting price of just over a million euros. That villa was sold, but there was no Aeroengineering left. Who asks most of Aeroengineering? Workers who own 43.24% of the capital in the form of social capital. Then, the Alibicapitals company with 48.24%, but this is Bogoljub Karic's company, created through Jusiko. Now, when the country's procedure is carried out, the most favourable bank will be reported to be in charge of the state, of course, the Commercial Bank, which also has personal and other touch points with the Karics. It is known who is the power of eminence, who draws strings in the Commercial Bank from a distance, perhaps even from Skopje. Then we're really going into a situation where we're thinking if this is a mistake or if it's someone, I have to use that word, a sort of experience? We can do anything, we're the government and we can do anything. You can put in the Budget Law, predict borrowing, all that you can do, no one slows it down. You have 126, you can vote all of that. But is the problem solved? The problem hasn't been solved. When it is done in such a way in the National Assembly, Mrs. Komic, it is then at lower levels of government, or even where it is not government, such as local self-government, it takes other forms, which are much more dangerous for the state and society. Here's one of those examples. People think -- if this could end up like this in the National Assembly, then it could end in Bor. You know how Bora works? Local self-government has no public procurement, no procurement, and when you go to Bor you'll see five circular intersections, each cost six million dinars, and there are some monuments. I explained yesterday, made a fountain, so that fountain should work in December. Since the temperature is below zero in December and the water freezes, the genius president of the municipality remembered to insert the antifreeze. Now you have an antifreeze fountain that works in winter. Now, a little bit, a little bit, and some Boranin comes in with a bucket and takes all the antifreeze he needs for his car. Do you think someone went there to intervene, to say – aman, people, stand under the line a little bit, normalize? Then it doesn't seem like a miracle. Bor's building a zoo. Bor's making a pit stop. I am in power, while I am in power to launder money, I can finish whatever I want. If it goes unpunished through the National Assembly, then you can imagine what's going to happen in the municipalities. There is an immediate demonstration of coalition capacity – me to you, you to me. Then one minute we're rocking the earth and then we're focusing in time and space and we say, "Oh, imagine what happened to us." Well, nothing happens by accident, everything has its own natural flow, it has its own legality. What did the President of the Republic say yesterday? He says all these duties are moral. Now tell me, what's moral to this borrowing? What is moral in this borrowing, and you have so much space that you can take care of for the state organs, so you can make some kind of new transfer, etc.? We've had a situation to blow up empty space, and the trustee, the protector, the auditor, for years, has to go to some lease, get by and off. Okay, thank God, now that's settled. Why is that done? I don't get it. Why? Whether anyone wanted to spend money at all costs, and if there was always a cover – we have a contract, there was a need, etc. Anything formal can be clean, fine, but it's not like that. Again, I propose that this law be withdrawn from the debate, because it also contributes to increasing the debt of the Republic of Serbia by more than 45% of GDP, which, according to our regulations, is the upper limit when all possible lamps are lit and the state assumes the obligation to intervene urgently in order to address the consequences of the fact that the debt is on the line. So we're going to have problems, we have problems now, but we're going to have even bigger problems next year, because it's actually falling GDP and then this level of consumption and this level of duty shows that we've crossed 45%. If you are talking about the crisis in the euro zone, about overdoing the crisis, then take adequate measures to prevent the harmful consequences of the suicide path to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65028	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Does anyone else want a word, since I haven't registered any names and names of the MP? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65029	Madam Vice President, I must note that there is one discrimination against other cities and other courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You see how much attention is paid in Belgrade when it comes to courts and their comfort, space and costs for judicial reform. This is not the case, that every judge in Serbia has a courtroom. There is no such thing in Novi Sad, nor in Zrenjanin, nor in Pančev, nor in Vrsac, nor in Kragujevac, nor in Valjevo, nor in Valjevo, nor in all cities there is a completely different situation. Now someone wants to make in the territory of the Republic of Serbia exclusively the headquarters and central judicial authorities. You know we have appeals courts in Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Belgrade. It's four appeals courts. Judges don't have a chance for every judge in the court to have his own cabinet, or courtroom. You are also familiar with the situation in Panchev and Novi Sad, where people change, one day one judge, on the other day another judge, on the third day the third judge, so that the area is cramped as far as the business space of courts outside Belgrade is concerned. Madam Vice President, as far as this government is concerned, whose statement has just been announced by "Politics" on December 13th, the government is tasked with buying the court a building called Aeroengineering. Mr. Homen here gave an explanation of how much it costs, that Aeroengineering will buy, that it costs 13 million, that eight million will be paid at the Credit Bank, etc. In this regard, I would have the following questions - did the Government make an economic elaborate on the economic justification of the purchased building in question, which is actually for the purchase of the net useful area and the amount of the purchase price per square metre and the area and the tax on real rights that the burdens sell as a particularly demonstrated price of adaptation and the building for the purposes of that court? Secondly, did the government consider any other possible solutions that would be more economically justified and if they were to indicate which, and if not, why not. In particular, did she consider the variant of the building being built on the 14th Statska Street, which now houses the first basic court chamber in Belgrade, and how many meters of square useful surfaces would be obtained by building two or more floors of that building? At what price and did the government also consider the location of a building on Statnica Street in Belgrade that is better connected by public traffic to other parts of the city of Belgrade, streets compared to the building in New Belgrade, the building "Aeroengineering"? If she didn't do it and didn't think about it, why didn't she? Third, that the government publishes the information on who owns the Aeronizing Building and informs the MPs whether it is true that there was an auction to sell those buildings with the information on who called the auction, when and at what starting price, and whether or not someone bought that building at auction and if it is at what price? And if it wasn't for the government to explain why she didn't buy the building at the auction when she could pay a lower price for it and that initial price was 60% of the value? If estimated at the second auction, 30% of the estimated value, as well as to explain how this building was purchased – whether by direct contract or through an intermediary, and if bought through an intermediary – who was the intermediary, i.e. who, by name and last name, represented the mediator i.e. Is he representing the owner of that building? Given that a public sales ad was published in the daily press, so the question arises – does the government buy a building from the person who bought that building at the auction or from the owner of the building that was the seller of the building at the announced auction, which is important because of the level of the purchase price? Fourth, the government should explain why it planned to spend eight million on the building and the borrowing from the Commercial Bank, how did the MP, Mr Zoran Krasic, explain it in detail? If the building was to be built by this court, the former Fifth, it would be twice the price per square metre than it would be paid for this building "Aeroengineering". So obviously there was no need for this building to be planned to buy for the needs of the court. Something else that everybody knows and you too, Madam Vice President. It is known that hundreds and hundreds of military objects have grown so-called weeds, so the government couldn't take over from the military some of the buildings that are now empty and the army only provides them. They're failing, and there could be a better solution. Otherwise, as far as judicial reform is concerned, it failed. She's failed for a number of reasons. First of all, the cost of this reform is high, third donations to reform the judiciary and legislation have come from abroad and still do not know in what direction these funds are being placed and who has all participated in the numerous proposals of these thousands of laws that have been passed from 2000 to today? I think there's another problem with judicial reform. You've got a road trip at work. The people of Chacka are traveling to Shabbac to judge. People from Pancheva are going to Nis to discuss economic disputes in the Court of Commerce. Prosecutors travel, judges travel from town to town hundreds of miles away. This is where drivers are hired, cars are hired, time is wasted by judges, and I don't see the need not to trust that judge to judge, say in Novi Sad or Zrenjanin or Pancheva, Nis or Kragujevac, Užica, or Valjev. We don't see why it's an economic justification, it's gone. There's no rationalization. You see, at any cost, we say, we want legislation reform, we want judicial reform. We want to bring it into line with European standards. However, a number of complaints have come from abroad, as far as those system laws that are intruding into fundamental and human rights are concerned. So I don't think this law is effective, it doesn't bring anything, it just does damage to the taxpayers, and as my colleagues have previously stated, it needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. He won't bring anything new. He will even cause one disdain for other judicial authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia because it is only forcing Belgrade. The former General Staff building in Germany 9, the military court building, where the special prosecutor's office, then the other buildings that are now in Belgrade, are being redecorated and bought for no good reason to do so to the judiciary. You see, Madam Vice President, a million cases today have been announced by the Assistant Minister of Justice that he is in the First General Court in the executive procedure. Who's to blame? It's the judges and the executioners. They're the culprits. Now, citizens, those who had 1,000 dinars during the Socialists since 1994, have been a 1,000 dinar debt, and now that debt has grown to a million dinars. You have a case in Panchev. Forty thousand prosecutors and executive cases based on a credible I.D. The president of the court in 2007 with the perpetrators shows in a report that 14,000 cases have been resolved. He falsified the report, and none of the cases were solved because it was found to have been in the closet. Now, citizens who used utility services only now receive 1994 lawsuits. In 1998, 2000, 2001, etc., and the interest must be paid from the day when the proposer, the Public Communal Enterprise, as a confidant or as a prosecutor, filed a lawsuit brought before the court. He's been looking for a tight legal interest ever since. Now, on our proposal, the SRS committee groups unanimously accepted that these cases should be audited and that heavy legal interest should be dismissed for those cases where absolute obsolescence occurred, over 10 years and withdrawn by public utility companies of that lawsuit and those proposals for execution where the court fee is greater than the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65030	It was used 11 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) A group of 21 MPs from the group, acting in Serbia, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65031	So instead of buying a building that exists, overpaid, inadequate, we suggested building a new one. If necessary, take that loan, but return it to the assets of the sale of the former Fourth and Fifth Municipal Court. Here, I'll explain it the next way. Since the move of the Panic Department of the First Basic Court and the building of the former Fifth Municipal Court will be carried out, the building will no longer be needed because more efficiency has been achieved by reform and can be sold. As much space will be built by buying a new building and the projected funds, it can be 13,000 square meters. We predict that this new and now larger building can be housed by people who are currently in the former Fourth Municipal Court, so it can be sold. We believe that by providing a special courtroom, which we consider necessary for each judge, the efficiency of the court will indeed be raised to a higher level, which will also mean a greater profit than the fees that these proceedings will, in this increased scope and efficiency, be achieved, so that the same funds can be paid off part of the loan without being burdened by the budget itself. So, without any additional burden on both citizens and budgets, I can secure a decent condition, but only this way, not how the government predicted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65032	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the last amendment to the search. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I thank all the participants in the work. I'm setting a break. The afternoon part of the session will begin at 12:30, with no extra break time in the afternoon. We'll be working after 1800 hours if it requires a search in detail and the course of our debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65033	We're going back to work. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representative, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, I have called for the sittings to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice, Zlatko Petrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and Bozidar Blagojevic, independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tosković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz; together Zlata Djerić, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojević, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Nemanja Sarović, Boris Šarić, Sreto Perić, Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta and Gordana Pop-Lazić, as well as the Committee for Justice and Justice and Justice. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65034	Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act refers to what is called the public. The existing position of 2 members 3 may not be an ideal solution, but it is incomparably better than what is proposed by this amendment, which is covered by Article 1. What's this about? It's a principle of the public, which gets pretty much into something called freedom and law. There is a right to the public to know all aspects of something that is happening, something that is happening, especially when it comes to something that is public. The high risk is taken by those who try to define the public in some way, especially those who try to do it precisely. Every citizen has the right to know what's going on in the state, in the state authorities and every citizen has the right to get full information about how the state authorities are doing and because it is subject to something called information and the public, then the right to do so, and if it is regulated, only the way to do so is regulated. How? So it's not just a threat to law. With this amendment proposed, which is Article 1. The bill, someone is trying to be a little smart, so it gets into the essence, and even when it lists what the public is, and that's why it's the basic provision, Article 3 of the existing law better, because it's more comprehensive, because there are no restrictions, there are no restrictions. This is where it was tried, by the system of detailing what the public of the work covers, that in fact the public in some way was depleted. I'm not talking about the position of three members of three where restrictions are given. If you had changed that provision by chance according to some standards, you might have somehow accepted the principle of proportionality, even the principle of necessity, and certain cases, so that perhaps even in this provision you had called upon the authority of the judiciary and the impartiality of the court, you would have understood that. But when you change something, especially when you change something that's written in a general way and you want to specify, we have to intervene because we know what's going on behind it. Behind that is exactly the opposite. Like when someone promises to hire 250,000 people, they fire 300,000 people. And so when you say that you specify what the public of the Constitutional Court's work involves, we know that you're actually making some kind of change to rule out, limit or otherwise defuse the public. That's why we submitted the amendment. We ask that Article 1 be deleted and we also say - this is how we save the public from the work of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65035	Anyone else want to go by the amendment? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) In the words of the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65036	This is Article 3. A bill relating to a member of the 10th basic text, and it's just amazing. Why did you have to build on this view that the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work are passed by most votes? Why, when the decision-making of the Constitutional Court is regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulated that. Why are you putting that in? So, so far in article 10, there was no such provision, so she didn't mind. Or maybe it's some other situation that these guys are fighting over there in the Constitutional Court, so I can't, but they're 15? There's always a lot of them -- eight, seven. It's not like it's seven, seven, a vote. They don't seem to agree, do they? So, the first reason we need to adopt the amendment. The decision-making process and the majority of decisions are regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You don't need to make any innovations. If you prescribe a provision of the Constitution in some provision of the law, you devalue the Constitution. Secondly, there was no provision so far, so there was no obstacle to the Constitutional Court's functioning. The Constitutional Court has its own rules of procedure. I might understand this situation if by any chance the Constitutional Court had no Rules of Procedure, because most of them cannot be provided. But they must have secured most of it there in no time, right? Something to include what is the previous amendment to Article 2. We are opposed to this way of narrowing down the opportunity to make an insight into the case files before the Constitutional Court. Why? The maximum number of jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court concerns assessments of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts and there is nothing to do with territorial integrity, national security, privacy, public order and morality. There's nothing. Why would they restrict the right to insight? Anyone interested should be able to make an insight into the case file. There's no need for justice to prove the vindication of any of his personal interests why he needs to make an insight. Someone's going to make an insight because they're preparing master's work, someone's going to do an insight because they're planning to initiate the procedure, so they can see what kind of attitudes are being taken over on some issues, someone simply wants to build their own archives, someone wants to wait on the curve of one of the judges of the Constitutional Court who is incorrect. I don't know why you're making it impossible, or questioning the court record by setting certain conditions? No condition should be set, it is sufficient that there is a natural or legal person, that you identify him and that you provide him with insight, photocopying, copying, etc., because the Constitutional Court does not fall under the judiciary. Learn that lesson once. So the Constitutional Court doesn't fall under justice. Judges of the Constitutional Court shall be elected by special procedure. They have a certain mandate. If they were judges and they belonged to the judiciary, then it would be the continuity of the judge's office. Judges of the Constitutional Court do not perform classical judicial functions. It's not hard to understand. But when you break the basic principles on which the constitutional judiciary rests, then we have to stamp it, we have to warn the public and we have to draw attention to something that's going on. What's wrong? We'll see. We know you well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65037	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65038	This applies to the name of Chapter 2. We do not know what bothers the name of the chapter – Selection, appointment and termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court. Why would you have to change that, to be now – Selection of appointments, termination of office and the position of Judges of the Constitutional Court? The position of the Constitutional Court judges is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a significant provision of the Constitutional Court Act. We had to submit an amendment to the title, because the next few members refer to a new view of the position of Judges of the Constitutional Court, and as regards retirement, and in terms of payments, etc. So, this amendment and the next few amendments, in fact, make one whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65039	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65040	Thank you. Speaking of the position of the President of the Constitutional Court and of the Constitutional Court, we must say that they enjoy inappropriately, i.e. after the adoption of this bill, an inappropriately good position. Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act regulates the way judges of the Constitutional Court retire. He has not been the best way to regulate it so far, but what you have now proposed, Mrs Malovic, changes and additions to this law is disastrous and it is indeed for man to wonder, what is it about and what are your intentions? Here, the judges of the Constitutional Court and their president, or the President of the Constitutional Court, will now differ from all state officials. Today in Serbia, and if we respect the Constitutional Court to the extent to which it should be respected under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and already existing law and some practice that exists in the state of Serbia regarding the Constitutional Court. How has the Constitutional Court Act been regulated by judges of the Constitutional Court to retire? It is said, when he has fulfilled his retirement conditions, he is obliged to inform the authority who has chosen him and appointed him. Since the judges of the Constitutional Court become one-third, by naming here, or by choosing here in the National Assembly, and two-thirds become the appointment. So, what is appointed by the President of the Republic and the Supreme Cassation Court, that's the second third. They inform the authority that appointed them or selected them, six months before obtaining conditions for retirement. Then it is said – if the National Assembly, as someone entitled to make a decision, does not decide within the deadline, then the President of the Constitutional Court will make such a decision. Is there a question of the meaning and purpose of this law? We thought you'd intervene and it might change. But you didn't. You've done something, and I don't think any law on the Constitutional Court of any state in the world regulates in this way. You say – the Constitutional Court judge ceases his duty to fulfil the general conditions for retirement. It's acceptable and it could stay that way. But there is Article 2 of this article's position, which is to say – exclusively from the position of the 1st member, the Constitutional Court may, because of the work on the cases initiated. At the beginning of the course. Madam Minister, isn't there a work plan? Isn't there an annual work plan in the Constitutional Court? Well, and if specific cases appear to be solved during one calendar year, then the President of the Court, among other things, is the President of the Court in order to set a schedule. He's not going to set up the judge who won, or who's going to win in that year, or maybe next year, if he's asked that to solve this case, he needs a period that doesn't fit with the need for his retirement, he's not going to be appointed Judge Reporter? And they'll vote as many judges as there are at that moment. That is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined and said when and how the Constitutional Court can work. It wouldn't be too terrible if you said that he would be extended, Judge of the Constitutional Court, working until the end of the case he started, but you didn't say so. In that position 2, you said that he could perform that duty until the end of the period, that is, the deadline on which he was elected, and the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected for nine years. You're still saying if he's okay with it. He's not going to be agreed to remain the Constitutional Court judge, especially when you are. It is clear to us why you regulate and pay the judges of the Constitutional Court in this way. You said the average, or the basis for his pension, would be the last salary he received as judge of the Constitutional Court. Here's the best possible way for you to interfere with the Constitutional Court judges to work and implement the day-to-day policy of this, and perhaps later on, some other regime. Why is that? Judges of the Constitutional Court, including the fact that, in addition to the general conditions for establishing a working relationship, that deadline cannot be a younger person than 15 years of age, the Constitution said that the Constitutional Court judge cannot choose a person younger than 40 years of age, so you have foreseen in some conditions, for 15 years that he has working experience in the legal profession, to stand out, and only the emphasis, and even these judges who are now, is to highlight the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court, for the highest number. Now, not to analyze the individual 15 judges for the highest number, the first time they stood out was when someone pointed them out on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court. This is not good what you did. In one member you try to regulate and when they get the right to retire from the Constitutional Court judge and how much pension will they receive and through which banks they will receive and which postman will bring them, why didn't you regulate and then place here and the pictures of these judges? I think that you, that the Department of Justice, if there is anything to change, could have been far better and more acceptable law on the Constitutional Court to do, or suggest, than this. This is a very disastrous proposal, and I cannot not quote a colleague, Krasic, who says – whatever some of the foreign lawyers and experts in the area of law and justice system are getting their hands on, it has gotten a completely different stream. It was not for anyone in Serbia, nor for re-elected judges, to work in such a way and to have such a reformed judiciary, but to be a single branch of government, to be an independent branch of government. Neither she is more independent, nor independent, and the Constitutional Court judge, sounds like, you know, the Constitution is the highest legal act, judges of the Constitutional Court are not judges in the classical sense, but that sounds nice. But you make it all out of your head. I'd be ashamed to be the judge of the Constitutional Court by any chance. After the law was passed, I would resign the same day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65041	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65042	We have submitted an amendment to Article 5 which speaks of the termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court. Regardless of your refusal and defense by constitutional provision that, in accordance with the conditions laid down in general, the Judges of the Constitutional Court should retire, I will try once again to assure you that it is not contrary to the Constitution itself, as a supreme act, to give an additional explanation or precision, especially if it can lead to discrimination against women in the Constitutional Court. The proposal states that the Constitutional Court judge ceases his duty to fulfil the general conditions for retirement. This provision is a little broad, therefore vague and imprecise, because no law knows or defines the general terms of retirement. The provision can be discriminatory because it can be interpreted differently and it can lead to discrimination against women who are previously entitled to retirement, if you interpret it so as to fulfil the general conditions. Or we'd be in a situation where the women of the judges have to leave office at 60, and men can stay up to 65 years old. If it is considered to be a 65-year-old, then it becomes a logical problem, because if women judges meet the conditions before that, there is a situation where they retire without meeting the general conditions. That is why we have suggested that a limit is determined by the age of 65 and we have to add that we are surprised by the fact that there is such a vague provision in the Constitutional Court Act because I assume that the writing of this law took part and I have been consulted by the Constitutional Court, or by its members, and that persons who perform such a function really do interpret other inaccurate and vague provisions, should not leave us with such a thing. We believe that the proposed reason for quitting is retirement is unacceptable for such a responsible function, because the person who retired, regardless of the law does not prohibit the work of pensioners and at the same time receiving wages and pensions, in this special place and the case must be avoided. The extension of the post until the end of the term of office is not acceptable because the term of office of the judge is nine years, so this could mean an extension by five or more years, because you have not set the upper limit for appointment to function at all. Is there an upper limit when you appoint judges of the Constitutional Court? No, I don't. So this isn't just a theoretical possibility, but it can really happen. At the same time, this provision is for itself, but also for the other views of this member, unclear. It is not possible to determine whether the proposed extension of office until the end of the term of office means that the judge is retired, so as a pensioner, he will either take the salary and retire or delay his retirement. A lot of us read this, analyzed it. It crossed attitudes and we couldn't figure out what it could represent in practice this provision. If it is both income and pension, in our court it is unacceptable, especially because of the proposed new attitude 6 which stipulates that the basis for retirement is the final salary of the judge. The determination of the final salary of pensioners is a harsh deviation from the general rules and seriously violates the equality of citizens before the Constitution, the law, which also causes discrimination against citizens. That is why we have suggested that, by adopting this amendment, you are in fact precisely prescribing when the Constitutional Court judge ceases his office, so that we do not have imbalances between men and women in terms of the length of the working age, or inequality with other professions and judges. Your inconsistencies in the application of the special position of the Constitutional Court or their equality with others vary from amendments, i.e. from arguments to certain amendments that we have submitted to the members of the law. Somewhere you refer to general rules, and somewhere you point to the specificity of these functions of those people who perform that function. There's no uniform criteria in that, no rules on the basis of which you apply community or speciality. I think that there are enough arguments to adopt this amendment, because what the Constitution says as a general rule does not mean that it should remain so broadly defined and that it cannot be so precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65043	I thank and give my word to the MP, Milisav Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I don't know what amendment or whether the Government will accept, but I suggest that it accepts the amendment that deletes Article 6. Article 6 of this bill provides that the pension basis of retired judges is to determine 85% of the last salary. Absolutely unacceptable. Unacceptable for several reasons. First, it jumps out of one PIO system, because the PIO Act determines how pensions are achieved. Secondly, there is no reason to make an exception to the general rules, general conditions, to exclude anyone, nor the Constitutional Court judges, or the President. When we use a little math, although the PIO system no longer knows the pension base of so many percent, but it's a completely different system, but if, although it can't be applied, we could use mathematics, we'd see one of the next members, who we're against, as well as that Article 6, that the very exclusive president of the court and judges when it comes to pay. So, the president has 12 coefficients, and the judge has 10.5. I'm not talking about wages, but I'm talking about the context of this. If we're looking at the Budget Act for next year, the basis is 30,000, if I'm not mistaken. If we multiply it by 10.5, that's 300,000. Even if she's the base for the lower class, state officials who don't work in court, 17,500, that's about 170,000 or 180,000. If these 85% were applied, it would go beyond all the pensions allowed. Therefore, please pay good attention to this and accept the amendment that returns the PIO pension system. It's too prominent to buy impartiality, independence of various organs. We've led to the absurdity of the Law of Salaries in State Authorities. When we look at how well he puts it there, it turns out that the most irresponsible function in the country is the President of the Republic, because everyone else, MPs and I don't count, they've been shot long ago, it turns out that anywhere in any body, which only has a name independent, independent, has a multiple salary of that. Excuse me, Madam President, your chief of staff has a higher salary than you do. Of course, you don't get paid here. So, we've passed that law to absurdity. We just keep giving someone something to be impartial... (President: Mr. Krasic, don't interfere with lustrations. )......................................................................................................... to work, to be independent, to be independent, etc. We add 10%, if one judge happens to be smaller, then it's not the budget ceiling anymore, it's breaking through, etc. What would they do with other actions? To not speak, I can be misunderstood, that in these conditions of economic crisis, when everyone has to do a lot of work and do that in the easiest way to go through it, to share that burden, there is no justification and no basis for any particular retirement basis, or for so many exceptions in salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65045	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65046	You can see, Petronievich, when Slobodan Milosevic from the SPS spoke about how it truly works. I would suggest that you adopt the amendment of Mr. Sreti Peric, because you will solve many problems. The first problem you solve is the position of the sixth member that is inapplicable. (President: Mr Krasic, we are talking about amendment 21 of the MP group, Forward Serbia. Yes? (President: I just wanted to say, you've come forward under that amendment. Here you go. I did, I'm in matter, except, unlike you, I read the bill. That's a small difference between you and me. So that view of a pension base, that's inapplicable. Here, Mr. Colakovic follows it, he's an activist at the PUPS. You see, Mr. Colakovic, that this was written by an ignorant man who doesn't know the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. These are the Justice Department experts. They do not know that there is a pension-inhabitation system of the Republic of Serbia, whose transformation has started since 2003, Gordana Matkovic, etc. They don't know what the point is, what this is, what that is. They don't know anything. Why? Because they're being watched from America, this is how they're being watched. Why do the judges of the Constitutional Court have to be in a glass pot? They're doing a dirty job with judges, re-election. That's got to be paid. They have to be rewarded for the dirty work they have to do. Now, please, why are you making discrimination with DOS champions? Do you know under what conditions he retired Slobodan Vučetic? Under what conditions is Zoran Ivosevic? Now Bossa Nenadic won't retire. The more responsible she is than the two of them. In their time – you've met the conditions, you're out of office, and you're retired. Dr. Bosa Nenadic has now opened, so start the course, so you can, ma'am, by the end of the term, as if he were a university professor. This right of working relationship that, even when it meets the conditions for termination of employment by law, because it met the conditions for retirement, they had two categories of tolerance, and later came the third category – healthcare workers. The first category was university professors. To finish the school year, was that it? Well, when democracy came, what were you doing with Costa Chavosky? What were you doing with Budimir Kosutić? You didn't want to apply that provision in law school either. Now Dr. Bosa Nenadic until the end of the nine-year term. It's a little small for her, aman! From Mikulic I can't look at her anymore, from Mikulic to here, aman! What's she so responsible for? She has determined that the MP is the owner of the mandate, His Majesty, the councilman. Ninety-nine percent of citizens in local self-government don't know the name and last name of a committee candidate, votes for the lists. Is this perhaps a debt to tycoons and organized crime, because they've given them such an electoral law that any money-cheese can buy 126? What, is that the flow of democracy? Not a single sincere Democrats will support that. Not one. What about the coefficients? What's wrong with the current coefficients? What's wrong with the pay so far? Why is the need now to change the pension base, to enable longer work, even though the conditions for retirement have been met? Why, what's changed? What's changed since 2006 to today? It's changed that we have a new category – I'm sitting at home and I'm getting paid. Right? The judge who wasn't elected didn't pass the B.I.A. check, is this judge, who isn't re-elected, a member of organised crime? Is that a message? What's the message? Why are you paying for it? If you've done everything right, it can't be done. You see, Mrs. Malovic, how dangerous it is when you take to play with these things. You personally get to play with these things. You're being blackmailed. You had to sign a solution for Karadzic and Mladic. We'll always warn you about that. You're registered. You see under that pressure what you have to do. You gave the bank to get in the circuit. A thousand dollars doesn't help you get out of the car.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65047	Mr Krasic, I will ask you to take care of the way you address the minister and all the MPs. I understand your willingness to participate specifically in the debate and there are some limits I can understand, but really don't exaggerate and don't insult people. Don't throw it away. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 5, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Mr. Momo Colakovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65048	Honored presidents and the presidency, a respected minister, representatives of the government, honourable MPs. I am obliged to say that we support the amendment submitted by the Committee and to thank the Committee for accepting the initiative to discuss it on the Committee. First of all, for two reasons. The first is that the Constitution speaks precisely about how property-retirement insurance and the system is governed by a special law and that is done by the Retirement-Invalid Insurance Act. This provision, which is added in Article 5, which regulates the question of going to retirement of the Constitutional Court judge, is totally contrary to that law and therefore we believe that this should be deleted, as is proposed by the amendment of the Committee. The second reason is that he's completely inapplicable. For ten years now, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act has not known the entire system. That is why we think that this amendment should be accepted and I am asking the Assembly to say so in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65049	Thank you, Mr. Colakovic. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65050	Madam President, dear colleagues, you have seen that right around this amendment has more or less excited everyone, in all groups of MPs. So obviously we're dealing with a single change that kind of gets deeper into the legal system than is one technical question about pay. The issue of the Constitutional Court is one of the major issues in the birth of democracy. 200 years ago, it was still debated whether the Constitutional Court was needed, how much would it limit the sovereignty of the people's representatives, but on the other hand, it was thought that it should only limit the will of the people's representatives. But this problem exists and there are constitutional courts in many countries, of course there are no constitutional courts in some countries. Here, is this European tradition, as if the Constitutional Court were the guardian of the constitutional order. The constitutional denials of the Republic seek to ensure equality, legal equality of citizens. It's their primary task. We were not very fortunate but with the first constitution writer Jovan Djordjevic, who in the Law of the Constitution, first placed that some members do not apply to one man, etc. which has already been disrupted on the basis of what is called equality and equality of citizens. Later, the constitutional courts made various extremely compromising decisions, and I'm not going to expose this history here. But one thing is very important. It cannot be based on the privilege of any establishment of the right to the inequality of citizens. Privilege, it's a trait of feudalism. Democracy has just affirmed equality and that legal equality, above all. We have one case here that those who need to guard these foundations of the democracy of the Republic, that they should have certain privileges. It's a dangerous precedent. He could later refer to everyone else. Of course, there have been various suggestions here, that MPs can, if they are in two terms to have special privileges and pensions, I am against it and thank God it didn't happen. We have to be careful here. The Constitutional Court cannot allow itself to have someone there who is a judge, a privilege over other people. This isn't any privilege. It's now going into a series of other equalitys. For example, an equal reward for equal work. Why does the Court of First Justice, the Court of First Instance, who certainly spends much more time than the Constitutional Court waiting for a debate, etc. often not at some level that solves some big questions. That's why I'm surprised it's so easy at all, somewhere down there at the bottom of this article, that they're going to retire with their last salary, etc. It's going to make the citizens sick. I support the amendment that the Committee has given and I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the Republic in this case, to vote in favour of equality between legal, citizens and to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65051	I thank Professor Micunovic. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65052	Thank you. First of all, I thank my colleague Petronivic for his consistency and reminding him of everything that he and I are talking about with these and similar reasons about the relations of responsibility, loyalty in terms of reward and compensation for performing a certain function and what he reminded him of very nicely, supporting that we must not, and also Professor Micunović, in our own way, bring about that right in this law, which is the constitutional creator, and the guardian of equality and justice and democracy, create discriminatory conditions. But I'd like to ask you to keep in mind this discriminatory role in terms of pensioning women and men with this interpretation. In Article 5a, which we asked for as an addendum, we define another limiting circumstance that gives right to those who work in the Constitutional Court, such an important job, that they work with complete commitment. We define that the Constitutional Court judge is based on a working relationship in a court with full-time working hours and we add another position, that in the event of a suspicion of a conflict of interest, the Constitutional Court judge is obliged to inform the President of the Constitutional Court and after that position 5. We have added the position 6 to the Judges of the Constitutional Court, who does not submit a report on assets and revenues in accordance with the law governing the conflict of interest, the duty shall cease under the law on the expiry of the legal deadline for the submission of the report. In the rejection of the amendment, you responded mainly to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Act or the Anti-Corruption Agency Act defines the conditions, and now these conditions must apply to judges of the Constitutional Court as well as to all others. And for a while they were special, now they're just like everyone else. In terms of preventing conditions for conflict of interest and for disregarding the legal provisions that define it, they must bear more responsibility than anyone else. First, we believe that the Constitutional Court judge, so that they can function properly with full engagement and attention and without conflict of interest. They absolutely can't do any other job or function, and not even the job of a law school professor. That's what I'm going to explain. If the judge is a professor at the same time. When I say to explain, you simply understand that in the Constitutional Court I personally know two people, I highly appreciate them and as people, but I know a lot more than that through writing some documents, acts, texts, and I appreciate a lot more of them. But I appreciate the institution itself and in principle I submit the amendments, wanting to preserve the reputation of the Constitutional Judge, and thus someone's name and last name, and so we give these amendments. When you tell me something that the Constitution has defined, and there is a law, so man creates everything. So it's up to us to improve what's a condition for the Constitutional Court's work. Not only do we have the parliamentary right to submit the amendment, but I want you to listen to the explanation and I believe that, even if you do not confess publicly, you will agree with the argument that I am about to make. This is particularly said, that the judge cannot pay full attention if he also deals with the profession, with judges who are professors at universities outside Belgrade. Currently, a number of judges are also engaged in colleges, so that the Constitutional Court absolutely fails to decide within reasonable deadlines on proposals for the assessment of constitutionality of very important laws. Work in colleges enables executive authorities and others interested to influence the independence and impartiality of judges in various ways, starting with pay, working conditions, etc., through appointment, promotion, acquisition of calling, selection of textbooks, participation in paid projects done by the university and many other ways that can please the judge or discriminate against him, and you know, perhaps even better than I do, for concrete examples of such ways of benefits that people point to bias or discrimination that gives them the knowledge that they have to be obedient. How much of that influence can be seen from the fact that some college judges earn a profit that is three times the amount of money they earn in court. If you look for specific data, you know as always, on the most official website I have absolutely all the data as many individual judges have reported receipts and wages. At this point, I'm not going to take up your time. It should not be omitted from sight or the fact that Serbia has, by law, equal and private law schools, where, apart from those problems, it appears as a possible problem and a fully defined individual interest in the owner of the university that is related to its activities in the university itself, and perhaps others. As the term of office of the Constitutional Court takes nine years, and as a rule they are re-elected, the judges still have to opt for a judicial or professorial function, both because of either the judicial functions but also the professorial functions and to protect the interest of students if they opt for the profession. If the right to make a professorial call is maintained, there is a serious danger that private colleges begin to be kidnapped to hire just the judge of the Constitutional Court to raise their ratings and it is not in the sense of some baseless assumption at all. Eventually, not possession of a doctorate. It's easy to solve, we have examples of some private colleges assigning a few hundred titles in a very short time. That this is not a mere theory and the fact that some of the judges of the Constitutional Court are already enrolled in doctoral studies at private schools. If a law relating to higher education and the position of professors should be decided then it could be in a situation where the court cannot decide because the majority of judges are in conflict of interest. Right? The Constitution in Article 173(1) allows for the possibility of a judge performing a professorship at the Faculty of Law, but in accordance with the law. This means that this right must be regulated by law, including that it can be restricted or completely denied. So this amendment is not impossible. However, that provision states that the profession is a secondary job, and in practice we have the opposite situation, that judges retain a working relationship at the university with full time, full pay and other income, and that the judicial function is done as a secondary profession, which we consider totally unacceptable, and we believe that it is not in the spirit of constitutional solution to the possibility given for the profession. In this regard, the question arises: in what legal capacity do a judge's office and receive compensation? Is it complementary work, or is it an act contract, in fact, or something third, and especially what is the scope of the engagement, that is, the court’s work and the fees they receive for it? For the same reasons, the Constitutional Court judges must only be employed in court and full-time. It's not appropriate, it's simple, it's unworthy that some more, sorry for the jargon expression, the gig is held in parallel to this function that we all consider supreme. Paragraph 5 should be amended so that, in the event of a suspicion that there is a conflict of interest, the Constitutional Court judge is obliged to inform the President of the Constitutional Court. Under the current law, the judge may request an opinion, but he is not required. We believe that a report of suspicion of conflict of interest must be made mandatory. The obligation to report property and income, in which you have only responded, must be severely sanctioned when it comes to the judges of the Constitutional Court and in the strictest possible way, which is the resolution. It is unacceptable for the Constitutional Court judges to avoid reporting property, what kind of situation we now have that, I don't know if the public is aware and what I'm risking now by getting to know them that six out of 15 judges haven't reported property, or not in the register of property and income of officials, even though it's their legal obligation. It's yesterday's data. In particular, the question must be raised why such a violation of the law has not been reacted by the Anti-Corruption Agency because not reporting property is a criminal offense. I'm not going to mention what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing and what it's threatening to do, to stick posters in a particular place where it's not intended or what I'm talking about, or at the same level of trying to bribe two top organizations that need to deal with the protection of the institution of this society and the Anti-Corruption Agency the right to choose the deputy herself, determines the number of assistants, gives the outside contracts to help it, buy a new building, etc., and here we are trying to do this with unfounded and illegal privileges and rights that we all talk about. On this issue, we must express concern that the existing law is not respected, because of the nine judges of the Constitutional Court who have filed a declaration of property and income, only two do not have additional paid functions and jobs, while the other seven have one or more paid jobs, in addition to the functions of the judge and, most of all, it is more than 50%, from the budget and public revenues. In addition to the fact that it is contrary to the Law, it is also an inappropriate position and reputation of the Constitutional Court judge, and it is particularly unacceptable that no one has taken steps to prevent it. If you don't know, you'll get accurate information on all of this. If this law provides sufficient remuneration in the new Article 20a to ensure the independence of the judge, then the ban on additional work would have to be absolute not only to protect the reputation of the Constitutional Court, but to protect the highest legal authority in the state. In that sense, I ask you to seriously consider the Amendment 5a that we have submitted. I do not specify precise names and specific data precisely because I consider the Constitutional Court to be the highest authority whose integrity I want to protect, and to you as applicants of the proposal, we can deliver these data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65053	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65054	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since you have not read the law, let me tell you that this is Article 20a: "The payment of the Constitutional Court judge corresponds to the position and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court", that is not clear. What do jurisdiction have to do with pay? It is further said: "and the responsibilities of the judge for the performance of his duties and is one of the guarantees of his independence in the protection of constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms". So, the guarantee of his independence in protection. To every man who works in a privatised enterprise in Serbia, who is not paid, raise your salary and that will be the biggest guarantee, not only to protect constitutionality and legality, but also to guarantee the preservation of the Republic of Serbia, and everyone has to love the Republic of Serbia, no one will turn to Brussels, no one will turn to organised crime, just pay everyone as well as you give the judges of the Constitutional Court and everything will be settled. It is further said: "The payment of the President and the Constitutional Court judges is determined on the basis of the basic salary. The basic salary, according to this law, is a value that is not included in the percentage for the value of past work. The basis for calculating and paying the salaries of the President and the Constitutional Court judges is laid down by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court shall be 12 and the judges of the Constitutional Court shall be 10.50. In the event that the Constitutional Court does not fill all the judges' seats, until they are filled, the president's salary and the Constitutional Court's judges increase 10% for each unfulfilled court seat." Three unfulfilled judges, each of them will have 10%, which is a 30% increase in salary. And why don't you give this to government employees? Why don't you give this to the employees of the economy? Let's say, by systematicization, 30 people are planned to work as locksmiths, for 20, each has the right to 10% of them for every unfulfilled place. What makes the job of locksmith and Dr. Bose Nenadić different? It is said: "The Constitutional Court Judge who has been elected, or appointed to office from the law school's law professor, who is exercising his labour rights in law school, has the right to a monthly fee in the amount of the difference between the salary of the Constitutional Court judge, the full-time reckoning." This was made in a variant that his salary in college was lower. In practice, she's twice as big as she's in court. What, it's not? I never lie, I guess that's clear. I'm always telling the raw truth. To stop spending these precious anti-European minutes, delete this. We requested an amendment to remove this. You know, you're not very good at basic ideological concepts of modern society. You have one concept based on political freedoms, and that is liberalism, and another concept based on political equality, which is democracy and this new, cobayage, some socialism. These are these bloody social justice fighters, like your Bajatovic, who receives millions and 350,000 every month. And he's struggling not to be... (President: Obviously, you read but don't understand. I absolutely don't understand anything. You understand each other very well, I'm sure of it. There's everything in the Anti-Corruption Agency, who reported what he reported, how he reported it, etc. I'm not going to burden you with that data. Anyone can take a good look at it and see it. Now the question is, why are you loading these people? Doesn't this bill work to you like taking that goose, so it needs to be drowned as soon as possible and then its mouth is opened and it's hooking, it's hooking up, it's getting fat at Christmas? What you've come up with is why you need these people and that so-called. A guarantee of their independence? What guarantee of their independence? Those independents in making decisions of the Constitutional Court? Who's gonna believe that? Why are you insulting these people? They meet their obligations. They're under surveillance. It is known who tells them and what decision should be made, why it is made, why some time an initiative is accepted, why some time it is not accepted, when they are under official duty to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality, legality, they now need to finish the dirty work with the cheerleading groups, etc. You know all that, Mrs. Malovic. This is where it gets into the ambis uninterrupted. Why? What is it so much that you step so openly on the basic principles on which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is based? Why are you doing this? It's not a dispute. You have 126, you'll probably adopt five or six amendments, but you'll get through this. But, you see, yours will not vote for those members that matter to you, and you only care about these members who bring it, to be situationed, free, independent, etc. Why are you doing this? When you propose one of these amendments to the Constitutional Court Act, then you get the impression that so far it has not been regulated. It gets the impression that it was as bad as it's been regulated so far. So it was regulated and it wasn't bad. You have to change it now to oil it. You have to buy that kind of independence for the judge. For God's sake, the market economy is booming, the laws of supply and demand, and pay for it, as they say. Why should we vote for this? We don't have any valid reason. These provisions, which are proposed in this law, are contrary to the principles on which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is based, and we all know that. But you're relying on 126. So your only argument is 126. He was also when you started reforming the judiciary and you see how you mutilated her. What you planned for a year to finish, here, three and a half years away. Just so you know, the unselected judges have joined some parties in the meantime. Be careful. Take care. You had what was on the tape listening to you, remember? And he became a lawyer, just so you know. And he was the creator of the regulations that you represented here for the Secret Service, right? Read a little "Pres clipping." The wheel of happiness is turning, Mrs. Malovic. Please withdraw this bill. You're not going to solve anything with it, you're just going to create an additional disaster, next to the one you challenged in the judiciary, and in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65055	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65056	We're in Article 6. We propose that in the new Article 20a. Paragraph 5 of the amendment reads as follows: "The President and Judge of the Constitutional Court have a basic salary at the height of the president's basic salary, or Judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation", and we have suggested that item 6, where an increase is foreseen for unfulfilled court seats be deleted, as well as that paragraph 7. We suggest that the President and the judge of the Constitutional Court have a basic salary at the level of the president's basic salary, i.e. the Supreme Court of Cassation. We do not believe that there are serious reasons why the judges pay these two highest courts differ, nor that they are determined by different rules, regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court is the Supreme Authority. In addition, the fact is that even now these salaries are basically the same, at least according to the information that we have as a public. The solution from the proposal you provided us here, which sets a 12 coefficient for the president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia for the salary account, and for judges 10.5 is unclear and unacceptable. Namely, the Law on Judges states in Articles 38 and 39 that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has a coefficient of 6, and the judge has a coefficient of 5. I'm talking about the difference where you dramatically increased that difference - 12 and 10.5 at the Constitutional Court. In such a situation, is it not possible to determine whether this means that the Constitutional Court judge will have a future double salary than the Supreme Court judges, or will the basis for the reckoning be determined independently of the basis for all other courts and state bodies? Item 6 should be deleted because there is no excuse or reasonable reason for the judge's salary to increase unless all the judicial posts in the court are filled. That doesn't in itself mean that judges do the job of absent judges. In addition, the argument made by the Constitutional Court itself at a time when not all judges were appointed, that due to the smaller judges they solve relatively fewer cases. This proposal is clearly inspired by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, both himself and the judges, was not elected by all judges, raised the salary by 30%, and the public remembers that her salary was then raised to 210 thousand, or 210 thousand to over 320 thousand. In addition, she received three other awards and three other functions, which was written by the press, ma'am, I truly appreciate, she confirmed, but also justice. Her example, unfortunately, is that today we are witnesses, the judges of the Constitutional Court are also taking the stand. Article 7 should be deleted, as the amendment proposes that the Constitutional Court judges cannot work as professors in colleges, for the reasons set out in the explanation of the previous amendment. In particular, it must be stressed that attitude 7 is controversial because of the way in which the judge's office is being arranged and the extra charge for performing his duties, because it comes from the assumption that the judge's salary is higher, and that doesn't have to be true at all. It is also determined only in relation to the professor's salaries financed from the budget, but other revenues received by teachers are not covered by the other incomes and are realised on a variety of grounds, nor does it cover the situation when the judge is a professor at a private law school. I don't think of being anyone's lawyer, but in this house, we've had an unwarranted call of conflict of interest, something that's about professional work for someone who doesn't get paid in this assembly, and he's been doing project studies in the medical profession, certain quality and influence of drugs. President of the Assembly, I'm not talking about the name and last name, please don't take me personally, has cancelled a contract where as a professor who continued to do his job, for maintenance purposes, we all have to learn permanently and it's required of us, it's an achievement, some of us doing it ourselves, and some of us are pushing the law. Those who do it on their own and engage additionally, get yelled at in the press and exposed to the pillar of shame, and we here consciously allow some to do it. I simply have an impartial relationship that I express through an amendment to every function in this country, as I am proud of my impartial relationship, even in the most personal things, when my children are concerned, wanting to never, because of the love of children, lose the relationship of their quality, opportunity and the rest. We really have an obligation here to show this impartiality legally, not that of those of whom we expect to appreciate the laws we're making here, in fact, we open the door for them to be in that conflict without us responding. Article 7 should be deleted because we believe that the judges of the Constitutional Court, in order to function properly with full engagement and attention and without doubt in conflict of interest, absolutely cannot perform any other work or function. The fact that the work in colleges allows for the influence that I have already talked about through direct and indirect influence is an additional reason for this amendment that we have submitted to Article 6. I ask you to define this extra work, which you are treating here, in such a way as to disrupt the fullness of the judges' posts all the time and at all times, to pay with a decent salary, but not in this way, by paying additional income to those who do the job, not only those who do the job but also those who are absent and in the same way, as I have said here many times, that no one can be a superhuman and receive a salary from the budget as one of the people, chief and assistant ministers, while at the same time being a member of the 10 commission and each of them paid, not by individual engagement and any result, but every ad hoc commission for its members bears a monthly fee. Now I'm just wondering, how can you put into harmony the need for young people who are worthy and smart, to get involved, to learn business and talk about employment, and at the same time, to allow one man to perform more functions at the same time, to show that we believe in some people as if they were more than Nivee's Zaratruste and Inhumans. Please don't humiliate the reputation of the Constitutional Court judges I'm surprised they did, and perhaps they didn't agree with such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65057	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65058	Article 7. The draft law shall be intervened in Article 21 of the basic text, by adding new views, totally unnecessary positions governing the rights of the Constitutional Court judges at the end of the term of office and by not taking up office, which is not the case when they are retired. It is very simple to solve and so far there has been no problem in practice, Mrs. Malovic. If someone from one post has been elected to serve as judge of the Constitutional Court, he shall return to his previous post at the end of his term of office. While he was in office as judge of the Constitutional Court, his working relationship rested. Very simple and simple. So what happens to plumbers, which applies to other professions, should apply here. Another thing which should not technically be in this text, the High Council of the Court of Justice, i.e. the State Major Prosecutors, shall be obliged, within 30 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court, to deliver a solution in the case referred to in Article 6. Can't formulate – they owe. They can't be prescribed a commitment. He can't. This is one specific situation when someone was elected to the office of the Constitutional Court judge from one of those places where he had a judicial office, where the principle of continuity of that judicial office was represented. So the judge's office is based on the principle of continuity, so if the judge was elected judge of the Constitutional Court in the meantime, he was at peace with the working relationship in that judge's office. At the end of the office of the Constitutional Court judge, he returns to that one of his own. There's no problem. But that's where it's especially pointed out. I don't know why especially. I don't know why you needed to know something this way, which wasn't a dispute until now. Nothing has been disputed so far. In practice, there was no dispute, so before the High Council of the Judiciary and these larger prosecutors, every day he doesn't choose, nor does he resolve the judges. They've done a pretty good job. Probably once, twice a year if there's a place to fill, or if there's any increase in the number of judges, there's a contest going on, there's a fill-up. But no. I get the impression that you had the intention of, with a large number of changes, 40 and a few members, actually presenting this with a serious bill and, in that sea, the provisions essentially conceal a few provisions. I think the most important provisions are these provisions on salaries, positions and this innovation about small and big bigger ones, but we'll get there. It's a dibidus, a disaster, it's a failure. Mrs. Malovic, I suggest you accept this amendment to the SRS, because if you accept that amendment, then less this bill will be mutilated than it is now, as this looks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65059	Used two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group or by an authorised representative? From the group. Justice Minister Snezana Malovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65060	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have waited for the debate to pass on all amendments concerning the election, appointment and termination of office and the position of the Constitutional Court judge and I will try now, uniting everything here and which may represent a dilemma or criticism, to clarify or to possibly convince you of something contrary. As regards the draft law and the provision of the bill relating to the pension basis, we were guided by a European standard in the European Charter of Judges and extending to the judges of the Constitutional Court, where it is taken as the final salary of the pension base. However, I absolutely understand all the arguments that have been made here in this regard, I understand both the situation and the situation in which we are in, not only our country, but the whole world on the global economic crisis and I welcome the opinion of the Committee on Finance which has been translated through the amendment and certainly, however the National Assembly declares itself in the day of the vote, I will respect such a decision. I also cannot agree with the fact, although I agree with the fact that it is not sufficiently accurate in terms of the retirement of women, that this represents discrimination, we have, as pointed out here, the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance, which is a general law, which applies in a certain part and to the status of judges of the Constitutional Court. So women can't and can't be expelled unless they're 60 years old retired unless they want to. They can use a 65-year-old general condition that applies to male sex. I also want to assure you that there can be no situation to receive both wages and pensions if there is an extension of the working century. Of course, again and in that case, if such a provision is passed, the Constitutional Court will have to respect the general deadline for the term of office of the Court of Justice of nine years and which, as such, is determined by the Constitution. It's a really surprising fact to me, and I have no reason not to believe that six judges of the Constitutional Court have not reported their property. I deeply believe there's a certain explanation for that. Whether it may not have been on the Agency's website or something else, but at this point I would like to appeal to the Anti-Corruption Agency itself to examine this situation and if it is necessary to take further steps in this regard. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act are clear enough regarding the inability to perform any other function than the Constitutional Court Judge, except for the profession at the Faculty of Law. Therefore, I would agree with these discussions, if such a situation were not acceptable. As far as the basics are concerned, the draft amending and supplementing law on the Constitutional Court provides for the basis to be established by the Budget Law. So far, this has been done through the government's conclusion. That basis, which you could see in the bill, is not even with the basis for judges. I think it will have to be in some small amount, given that the coefficients for the Constitutional Court judges are higher than the coefficients of other regular functions. So much for now. I hope that during the discussion, we will still have an opportunity to exchange views.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65061	Does anyone else come forward for a word in search of the particulars of the amendment to Article 7? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Maritovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65062	This amendment to Article 8 covers essentially a few more amendments, since this article is practically a prelude to any further developments. "The meetings of the public debate and other forms of work of the Constitutional Court may, following the Constitutional Court's decision, be held outside the seat of the Constitutional Court. "I don't understand why you put a new position in the regulation of the law that regulates the seat where all the Court can work. I don't get it at all. Why did you do that? Why did you need that? You have a Rules of Procedure, you have other sublaws that can be regulated. Why would that be regulated by law? There's a obligation to set up a seat by law, and where else the Constitutional Court is going to sit, where it's going to work, there's no obligation, and you put it in. Is it the Sremski Carlovci, for what? Are you looking forward to this change, so you'll schedule a Constitutional Court session in Kosovo Mitrovica? Maybe that's why. If that's what this is about, we agree, just write it down. We intend to go to the Lambhouse, there to hold a session of the Constitutional Court, there we will assess the constitutionality and legality of the regulations of the Government of Serbia, where the deal from Brussels has become a matter of regulation, and we will carry out the evaluation there, so this is what we need in order for the Constitutional Court to go to the Lamb. That's probably why you changed it. That's not why you changed it, that's why you have other intentions. This does not belong to this member by its contents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65063	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65064	We asked for an expropriation of Article 9 of the bill and it defines the position of the tenant, now that famous sentence that I do not tolerate in the laws – if this law is not different. Payments and other receipts of civil servants are set out in the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies and are fully arranged for all civil servants. This law does not prescribe the possibility of individual laws to pay and compensation differently for individual categories of officials or for certain public authorities. The law applies both to courts and to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, a different arrangement of this issue would simply be contrary to the Constitution only for individual officials or individual state bodies because of the violation of the principle of rule of law, the unity of the legal order and the equality of all before the Constitution and the law. I think that you were obliged to implement the issue of constitutionality and agreement with the legal system of disputed provisions before you proposed this law, and to state in an explanation why you believe that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, although it is obvious that it is not. If you feel that you can change the provisions of the Law on the salaries of civil servants, for individual categories and employees of individual public authorities, then you simply open up the possibility that all other authorities are asking for special laws to resolve this for them. That's why you need that supplement - if this law is not different. Therefore, this issue of constitutional law must be paid due attention and do not skip this without taking a clear position on this law, because this remark applies equally to all other provisions of the proposal which amend the rules on salaries and fees set out in the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. I don't know how many days it's been since the recent debate, when we had a story about the Police Act, it was the same subject and it's been said - it can be a special law. Yeah, we got a special law on police, but then we were under pressure strike, which broke up, because even the law doesn't mean much in terms of trust. This kind of pressure-breathing, that individual laws determine different rules for some, will actually leave that rule, that they all have some particular basis for determining wages, and that society will be an exception. I really don't think this is a good way to go, especially not at the Constitutional Court, and I'm asking you not to accept the precedents of this kind and not step down from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65065	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65066	We've asked for an expropriation of Article 10, and the reasons I cited for the amendment to Article 9, I won't repeat it, but I want to ask a question -- how does this government intend to provide funds to increase wages and additional rights, which it establishes for individual officials and bodies of this kind with amendments and additions to the law? So I'm saying this is not the first draft law to establish greater obligations and different rights, and there will be more when you open that practice. Now it's interesting to say what I consider to be the reason for this situation. They're all due to pressure and blackmail, which is part of the coalition, but it's interesting to me that they're the result of the pressure of some state authorities, but some, that they won't do their job with this salary, and when it comes to the Constitutional Court, it's not the pressure that they're going to start doing their job if you don't improve their position differently than everyone else? You know how many times we have challenged the constitutionality and legality of certain provisions of the laws we have adopted here. I think it's the most serious threat to you, that the Constitutional Court can begin to do its job, and that under that kind of pressure you tried to approve them of these unmeasured rights that you wanted to grant them. We had a similar situation when you changed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, instead of stopping the corruption from actually increasing the director's salary, and now she's trying to repay it, this is not analogy at all now, this is now a serious remark, where the opposition to glue posters for a newly invented offense has begun to be prosecuted, where pre-election activities are imaginably introduced. I'd like someone to give me a bill that contains a formulation of even pre-election activity. We all agree that everything we do is an election function and it's all a campaign. The day the ballot boxes are closed, it's an election campaign for the next election. Well, when someone's chasing you for a misdemeanor in pre-election activities, which aren't defined anywhere as the basis for the offense, and you gave it to the real director, I'm not surprised about what's next. The Constitutional Court probably threatened to start resolving accumulated proposals for the assessment of the constitutionality of the law. Let me remind you, in the Constitutional Court there have been some very serious cases for a long time, and I'm only going to quote four. Member of the 18th Constitutional Law allowing the current president to run for the third presidential term. Next -- amendments to the Government Act, which allowed Prime Minister Cvetkovic to be a finance minister at the same time. Next - a number of regulations about so-called. the general re-election of judges and prosecutors, which is why you are introducing public exclusion from insight into the case for these and these cases by this law. The law on electronic communications, I mean listening to citizens, and that's the turn of questioning constitutionality. I've singled out two groups and two specific examples, and there's a lot of them. In return, the government has accepted the judges' demands that, I suppose, demands that their salaries be doubled, that their pension base be their last salary, that they can also function as privileged pensioners, that they can work certain gigs, apologize for the expression, along with the functions, to increase the salaries of the judicial administration, in particular, and other privileges contained in this law. When it is added that almost all judges have additional jobs, that almost half of them have not reported property and income, all of this together represents a difficult disgrace for those who, under the Constitution, need to protect constitutionality and legality and human rights and freedoms. I think the only honorable solution is that either the law withdraws or at least judges of the Constitutional Court declares that they are not for these privileges and that they are finally in full-time and with full-time employment being taken into consideration at least part of the items I have listed here. But if you just take statements from the Constitutional Court, did you wait for this law to enter the assembly procedure? Because according to these statements, you can see how important matters are in the Constitutional Court. There is no insignificant problem, it is important to someone, but in the ranking of significant damages that they do, precisely in terms of constitutionality, I will dare and risk saying that they are still less important objects than those that I have cited, mostly requirements for the assessment of constitutionality which is very easy to reject or suspend, and many important things of chama in drawers. The public can see to the truthfulness of what I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65067	It was used four minutes and 23 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65068	Article 11 is about the same fate as these few previous 9, 10, and that 11 and the next one that I'm going to explain as well. It's the exact same story only this 11 refers to the Constitutional Court budget. I do not understand why you had the need to change and throw these things in order to clarify something when there is a Law on the Budgetary System, when the existing provision of Article 28 fully regulates this issue of funds for the work of the Constitutional Court. Why did you put in this Rules of Procedure? Why did you put this whole procedure in place? Why did you insist so much on this, since it's already in the regulations? The budget system law exists. The relevant provisions will also exist in the next 2012 Budget Act, which concerns the Constitutional Court. Why did you go to this, I don't get it at all? You simply needed to accumulate the changes of these members, to cover something up. What's epochal here that's changing? "The Constitutional Court has the resources of the Constitutional Court on its own," and so far it has always been. "The government cannot suspend, delay, restrict the implementation of the Constitutional Court budget without the consent of the President of the Constitutional Court." When did this happen? It never happened. Even this provision is worse. Here he insists on the consent of the President of the Constitutional Court. He can, so if he's okay with it. Strong ahead, he'll give consent to suspend payment from the Constitutional Court budget. A senseless provision that means absolutely nothing. Not to tell you, it's probably one or two points in this article that contradicts the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65069	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65070	In Article 11. Proposition 4 which states "that the procedure for determining the draft budget of the Constitutional Court is governed by this law" means the Constitutional Court and the Rules of Procedure we asked to be deleted. We think it is completely unnecessary, because the position 1 requires that the funds for the work and functioning of the Constitutional Court are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget on a proposal from the Constitutional Court, there is simply no reason and no need for the process of proposing that takes place within the Court itself to be formulated differently, as this can otherwise be regulated by the acts of the Court itself. For that reason, we have also suggested that this item 4 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65071	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia submitted. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and a National MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65072	We asked that Article 12 be deleted for the reason that you wanted to arrange the budget procedure within the court itself, completely unnecessary, excessively. Notwithstanding this, the procedure that you have prescribed for Article 12 is so complicated and unclear, and it prescribes the jurisdiction of a working body that we believe that the Constitutional Court is in charge of finance, whose composition and jurisdiction are unknown, you are re-establishing a body within the Constitutional Court, making a state in a state completely unnecessary as if the Constitutional Court had some problems with funding, transferring funds. I really don't see the reason, and I think we should wipe out and leave the Constitutional Court to do its basic work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65073	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65074	It's two Articles 28a and 28 B. I think you should delete this, because you really make the National Assembly out of the Constitutional Court. These working bodies of the Constitutional Court, and the secretary negotiates, and this one negotiates with this, and this and that, and as regards Article 28 B, please, and the Constitutional Court must have internal control. Each beneficiary of the budget must have internal control and the Constitutional Court must take care of the Accounting and Audit Act and he is not an alien and the competent inspection authorities are coming to control what decisions the Constitutional Court makes but also what material, financial business is because they do not enjoy immunity. However, since democracy took over, Mrs Comic, we will also have that agenda item Monday, the end of the office of that judge, a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Did you see his resignation text? He throws trees and stones at the High Council of the Judiciary. He says they don't even make records of these, Mrs Malovic and Bosko Ristic. No minutes from the session, no questions asked. The man gunned down resigned and informed us on both sides. So, respected citizens, if you think that all the apostles or in our judiciary are sitting in the Constitutional Court, you can invite him into the house. You'll see Monday when we read the man's resignation, what he wrote. They don't even keep a record. The vote, what don't they do there and now that I'm using an exact sentence or an exact word to describe the state of justice's transformation, I get a warning. And you see, every day, someone keeps us informed, based on a personal example, of what happens in a transformed, pro-democracy judiciary. You see, they're piling up some provisions here, writing down something completely unnecessary. The Constitutional Court does not differ from other legal entities which are beneficiaries of the budget. Point, there's nothing more to talk about. And there's going to be a budget inspection coming in, and there's going to be another inspection authority coming in, and you're going to have the DRI to check it out, and the police can come to you with a crime of interest. This is where you put it in Article 28a. "in case of disagreement." What kind of disagreement? Explain some disagreements, disagreements please? Why would the Constitutional Court, the draft budget, do its draft budget in a different way than is prescribed by criteria for other beneficiaries of the budget. What's in the Constitutional Court budget? Payments, by the law prescribed by the coefficients, the number of employees, the staff plan, and that is known how to make, past work, can be calculated, material costs can be calculated how many toners, how many paper, how much heating, how much this, how much. What would be some big disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Constitutional Court when setting out the draft budget. Perhaps in the counseling you were planning for civil servants. Your officers are strong if they have to go to the bathroom or to Zlatibor for counseling, so they were bad students. They were so bad students, they needed extra education. Or maybe a little Constitutional Court judges give a lecture and take a few diaries, like some of them were in the Bath. Please, what are you talking about? You really think any nice packaging can push anything? You know, who advertises a lot? TV only advertises falsified products. They need big commercials because big commercials are propaganda, and propaganda is how to cheat. To fool the consumer, it is very simple and simple. There is still a lack of provision, "Trust the Constitutional Court of Serbia" before the beginning of the diary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65075	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The legislative one did not answer, so the amendment is under review and will be decided by the Assembly in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65076	Mrs. Komic, this is a member of the 30th basic text that is changed by Article 13. A bill of this law. What's Article 30's second position? "The procedure before the Constitutional Court may include persons who are authorised by the participant in the procedure." It's an extremely beautiful, precise formulation. What can be added to that? Nothing. Experts have a problem with that. What are they suggesting? To this end, the procedure before the Constitutional Court can be attended by persons who, based on special powers, are authorised by participants in the procedure. A normal man would ask what's wrong with that formulation now so he needs some special power of attorney, what's behind it? What? Who's going to represent who? Well, he must always have some power of attorney. No, but to introduce something new, if we can. Do you see what's going on? Delete this, because it doesn't mean anything. This previous formulation is five times better than this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65077	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65078	In Article 13. The proposal was asked to delete the word "special" but to delete it in all the provisions of the proposal further, because in front of the words "powers" when you bring in the word "special" without any legal meaning, you can only create problems in interpretation and application of the provisions because the law does not know at all the special power and cannot determine what the difference between special powers to participate in the procedure and powers that are not special but is only the power to participate in a particular procedure on behalf of the grantor. If in any way you had explained the speciality of such power you might have left without a reaction, but then you would have "specially" replaced the word "special" as the Serbian word, but since there is no reason for any particularity, or not explained, we asked to delete the word "special" power.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65079	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65080	Articles 14 and 15, however, make up one whole. I don't know why you changed article 35 with these two in the bill 'cause that's it. That includes it, Judge Reporter. You have now inserted here – especially when this complexity of the request can be determined by one or more judges who, together with the Judge, will carry out the procedure and prepare a joint proposal for acts decided by the Constitutional Court. Excuse me, please, this isn't law matter. This is a real matter for the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work. He was a very good member of 35. On the basis of that principle in Rule 35, you could have worked this out nicely and done the job. Why do you burden the law with certain things that are really an issue of internal character, a way of organising work, and in that previous procedure? Why do you burden the law with such things? Why? Is one of the judges a reporter, whether he's going to help him out more, and you know they're preparing everything for the counselors. They're all being prepared by counselors. Another thing, if it's about assessing the constitutionality of a law, and there's a principle attitude of seven, eight years ago, not to go any further, since 2007, etc., so that attitude is prescribed, so it's not taken into the hands. You're making a philosophy out of this to justify coefficient 12, to justify the possibility of a Constitutional Court judge working after retirement, until he dies, etc. etc. You have to understand one thing, when the rules are passed on to retirement, a certain prejudgment has been created that a man at 65 years of age loses his general working ability. Are there exceptions after that? There were university professors, emergency workers, teachers, and teachers in high schools. Because of the exceptionalness of the job, it could be extended for another six months, etc. etc. It's one thing when a pensioner comes to a post, a pensioner is elected as an MP, and another thing is when a man during a working relationship acquires conditions for ending a working relationship under the law. There's no giving in. If there are exceptions, they have to be interpreted very restrictively. Why? Because of that presunciation, which means 65 years. I agree, today the question is whether this 65-year-old limit should exist, given that many things have changed in today's modern life. Life has been extended, and so on, which should be questioned, but now I'm talking here more from the perspective of principle. One thing is to stop by law enforcement, and the other is to function. Totally two different things. You can't write the law as a newspaper text, you have to understand that once. He can't go into a new text from the jargon on the street. We have this here now. He sits there some smart guy, puts a finger on his forehead and pushes, massacre the legal code, and then these Constitutional Court guys grab their heads when they're supposed to grade, say, the constitutionality of some law, so what does the writer mean? In my own time, I have advocated that every law that goes to the assessment of constitutionality must go and a stenogram from the National Assembly's session, so that we can hear exactly what the amendment thinks when he wrote the amendment and if most have voted in favour of that amendment and become an integral part of the bill's proposal and later become a member of the law, that is the meaning that this new member has. That's what it means. If we'd looked at it that way, Mrs. Malovic, then Article 102, point 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was completely different from the judges of the Constitutional Court, and then Zivadin Lekic and those who steal the mandates and Bogoljub Karic who steals the mandates would be mentioned, so that Article 102(2) came. No, you go jargon. It sounds good in the paper, it can pass, let's organize most of it, and let's get the job done. Well, he can't go on about the arm. It's a serious thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65081	It was used three minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Is there another word? No, I don't. ) Article 15. The amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65082	We asked to be in Article 15. The proposal in point 3 is deleted: "processive" is because we consider it completely excessive, because when the process is marked by the type of action in the process, it is pleonasm because all actions are part of a particular legal process, and therefore they are procedural. Indeed, when writing the Law, it should be avoided that the texts are burdened with words without any particular meaning, and this has become common practice, so in this regard we have reacted even though this is not a fundamental change.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65083	Is there another word? No, I don't. ) Article 16. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65084	This is a minor amendment to article 36. At first glance it seems that it is well done, submission, although when it comes to the Constitutional Court you should use the terms "proposal", "initiative", "constitutional appeal", "request", not "submission". The submission is something that binds to the courts and to the judiciary, but good. What we asked most for to delete Article 16 is what is proposed in points 3, 5 and 6. We have some understanding for this under three, but to reject the apriori immediately because it's anonymous we think it's illusory. The Constitutional Court is losing its meaning. The Constitutional Court should operate according to the name system as a prosecutor. The D.A. heard there's a crime scene going on, so he's running an investigation into someone in the middle of the year. and solved the crime. The Constitutional Court received an anonymous statement. Behind the anonymous performance, Gordana Komic, for example, wrote a woman, did not like some bill, she wrote, but did not want to write her name and name. (President: I would always sign, MP. Well, I took you as an example. (President: Take another example, for I would sign, don't worry. All right, then Hope Kolundji. That doesn't mean the court should reject the initiative. He takes the initiative, reads it, so if he has some basis, he makes an official decision to initiate the procedure. Isn't that right, Mrs. Malovic? Here, purely paperwork: what, not signed, throw it away. Don't be like that. The Constitutional Court shouldn't be working. It doesn't matter that much. However, this number 5) when you find that the submission is obviously unfounded. Excuse me, please, find me this man who will tell you immediately when he takes the initiative to say this is unfounded. Twenty-five MPs can proceed before the Constitutional Court, come to Dr. Bosa Nenadic, she has great experience, she says – what, 25, this is unfounded. How can he do that? It's still in this previous phase. Or under number 6) if it finds that the submission is misused by law. Please, why did you put those three things into some new look of article 36? The 36th was quite good, it was well written. It may have been legal-technical to make some changes, but in any case, the existing Article 36 is much more quality than a member of the 16th draft of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65085	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Fifty seconds you've taken advantage of the MP's time. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65086	Mrs. Komic, this should not stand in the future law on the Constitutional Court. That's the member that's very important. Here, let me read about it. The Constitutional Court shall decide on matters of its jurisdiction at the sitting of the Constitutional Court, the session of the High Council or the sitting of the Small Council. I'm not going to read any further, because later on, there are a few members who define what is being decided, how is it decided, etc. I fully agree that different decisions can be made by the Constitutional Court, that in the previous phase it can be less important, etc. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow the Constitutional Court to have a larger one. To be clear, it doesn't allow. Look, a judge can be an individual, a bigger three judges, bigger than five. But it's the judiciary. It's the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Cassation, it's the judiciary, there's the continuity, there's the resolution of individual rights and the interests of citizens. The Constitutional Court is not a judiciary. Judges are just called the Constitutional Court Judges. They choose for nine years. They decide on the constitutionality and legality of general acts. It has nothing to do with the judiciary, it has nothing to do with it. The constitution says – judges of the Constitutional Court decide most of the votes of the total number of judges. And it's impossible to make bigger now, as organizational parts, remember, it's the first mistake, as organisational parts, and then you determine different competences. I agree that there are some things about these larger previous issues, but it must always be decided by the Constitutional Court in full composition. And there's been no interference so far. That you wrote - a working body or a preparatory body, etc., and you tried to imitate the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is not the Constitutional Court of the Council of Europe. It is already a court that provides protection for citizens of those countries that are members of the Council of Europe and that is the last instance, so the fourth pillar is said to be. About what? Those situations that the European Convention guarantees should not be violated by human rights. Do we have anything like that with us? We have a constitutional appeal, it's similar. If we'd known you were going to mutilate the regular judiciary like this, we would never have put a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court. She'd be more suited to the Supreme Cassation Court today. But we didn't know you were going to ruin it like this. If we had known that you were going to ruin the regular judiciary, it would never have been a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court in the constitution, but a proposal or a request for protection of law would have gone to the Supreme Cassation Court, given that it has no jurisdiction now and cannot be compared to the Supreme Court of Serbia as it once did. But no, we talked about one thing when the Constitution was, when it needed transformation, we pushed the Americans, we gave 100 million dollars, and they mutilated this whole thing and changed the malts and concepts. That's the problem. Throw out a little – much bigger. This must not stand either as an organisation of the Constitutional Court, nor can it stand from the point of view of jurisdiction, nor from the view of the possibility of someone making a decision without all the judges of the Constitutional Court. These three things I gave you, which contain these provisions, are obviously contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't believe me, look at the provisions of the Constitution concerning the Constitutional Court. What's your excuse? You do not even justify to the European Court of Human Rights or any practice, but – we have inherited a large number of cases from the Constitutional Court of the Serbian-Montenegro State Court and we want to solve this effectively, and there are many of those cases that do not deserve a solution. And in the principle debate, we told you about the situation when, let's say, the Serbian Radical Party launched proceedings in 2001. You know what happened? A few months ago, we received an appropriate act of the Constitutional Court, that it is without substance more to consider a proposal for the assessment of the legality of several regulations, because in the meantime they are no longer in force, as new energy laws have been passed, etc. Exactly, you are about to answer the questions – how can they take the case into their hands after ten years? Why didn't they take the case back in 2001, 2002? It was thick, it was alive, Djindjic, so it shouldn't have been, because it was about that regulation on oil and oil derivatives. Remember that Novakovic, all the possible affairs that were? It was thick, so no one was allowed to take the object into their hands. When it's all over in the meantime, sold NIS, etc., now it's groundless. You know what, and after 40 years, it's pointless to talk about some of the things that are happening today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65087	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65088	We asked you to be in Article 17. The proposal deletes only a word – little. Because the marking of bigger ones with a little bit simply is not necessary, it is enough and more suitable to be called only bigger, because the greater of eight judges are called large and without that addition the larger ones are different, because we simply consider them inappropriate and unworthy, disdaining that you call one bigger one smaller. In that sense, it was an amendment intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65089	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65090	We have not submitted the amendment because of little or large, but because this is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Regardless of this – it makes decisions, makes solutions from that member, etc., everything must end on the table where all the judges of the Constitutional Court are located. We have a chance to look at these extremely nice people from that round salon over there, you saw those blue-and-black uniforms, they sit like in a semi-circuit, and they hang necklaces. They have a piece of shit with Boris Tadic, like medals, like rectors. They're sitting down, sniveling to be serious. If we come, we will put that nest upon their heads, and that nest shall be placed like those of the English lords, the House of Lords, and they shall put all the nests up with bows, and when they fear, they shall be afraid of men, and not half as afraid. When they get stuck like that, there's 15 of them, everyone's got an object, 15 photocopies, they watch who's in, who's against, that's how it's decided. That'd be pretty much the way it would be. Could anyone imagine a situation where the laws were passed by the Legislative Committee? How could that be? Or, the Finance Committee passed the Budget Act. These others aren't necessary, are they? Or, the Budget Committee finds that something's wrong and brings it back. Or, the Justice Committee says -- this is so bad, we can't even catch it and bring it back to Mrs. Malovic. It can't be like that. He has to come to the Assembly. If the congregation is to decide, it is known that the congregation is 250 and there are rules for the work of those 250 in the National Assembly. Not here. I fully agree that there is a graduation on the importance of these issues. That's not controversial. But the decision must be made by the full composition of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65091	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65092	I don't think you should have changed anything in this article 21. Everything is already covered by the existing article 46. It is a similar situation for the previous amendment to Article 20 and where it relates to Article 45 of the basic text. You've inserted this 15th point, but it's already covered by previous points, just to let you know. It is said: "The Constitutional Court rejects the request to determine the non-constitution or illegality of the general act in the initiative on which the decision to initiate the procedure was reached." You know, that's already covered by the previous points. Why do I tell you this? If it hadn't been covered by the case, so far the Constitutional Court could never have made such a decision, and he's already making such decisions. On what basis does he bring it? Based on the same article, 45. So someone who wanted to make this clear didn't understand what happened before. The situation is similar and with Article 46 - Court of Justice, the procedure for determining is in motion. I, for example, don't like it, but what to do is written in the Constitution – confirmed international contracts. As it was, like a bear's thong. But I say hello, what do I do? So, Article 46, you don't change anything much more. You're looking for some precision again. Mrs. Malovic, what is absolutely unacceptable is this last item of 10 – delaying the publication of its decision in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. That's absolutely out of the question. When he makes a decision, he has to make sure that decision is immediately announced in the Official Messenger. There is no reason to delay the publication of those decisions. Why? Will the Constitutional Court assess these Regulations of Bogdanovic and Stefanovic, so they will find that they do not agree with the law, etc., or are they contrary to the Constitution? Then he'll postpone publishing his decision. Why? That KFOR ran over those barricades over there, that's why? Then when he has run over, he will say, it is not our fault, we have carried out the assessment of constitutionality and legality. Is that it? I don't know what reason it would be to delay publishing a decision? It is very important to publish a decision – it produces a legal fact, informs the public, educates citizens about what is constitutional and what is not, and you delay. Why should late people find out what the Constitutional Court's decision is? What is this justifiable reason? There's no reason here. Nothing's listed as a reason. Or maybe it's because of these judges, their constitutional complaints, and what you need to solve, so you don't show it right away, but a little later. But you can't fool Americans, they're following it all, they've got insiders on the inside. So if you think by postponing you can fool someone, you can't. Inside are insiders, showerers. They define your agenda for the Constitutional Court session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65093	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65094	Now they've had a bit of a twist on these members, 47, 48, etc. So what was in article 47 is now going to be in Article 23. It's a bill of law. They've got it all messed up. Totally unnecessary. "The decisions and solutions of the Constitutional Court contain an introduction, a saying and an explanation." And that's enough to stand. What's it gonna be? Article 48, when it does not adopt other acts, and the Constitutional Court draws conclusions. Now you've turned it around, so you've written here that the Constitutional Court has reached conclusions, so you've cited the situation when a conclusion is made, etc. I agree. The conclusion formally-legal falls under decision, since the decision is a broader concept. It falls under a broader notion of a decision. But that has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work so far. Why are you burdening the law? A team before this isn't a decision that solves things in a meter. These are all previous procedural issues. Why did you get this into the law? I don't get it. Again, I am telling you, Article 47 and 48 of the current text fully satisfys the need for what the law requires to be prescribed. You're doing this unnecessaryly, but, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65095	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Yes, the word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65096	Mrs. Malovic, I can understand that someone has a good creation, that someone has imagination, but the Constitutional Court Act is more a legal-constitutional category than it is a political one. But here is the domination of political moments. You will best show and expose all the wrongs of one legal regulation if you bring it into contact with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court, or Constitution, makes sense because it enables and assumes the rule of law is in the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. And what exactly is the rule of law, or what is being realized by it? We have free and direct elections. Under free and direct elections I mean elections from Thessaloniki, from other places, both free and direct. Further: "Constitutional guarantee of human and minority rights, division of power by independent judicial authority". There's no more independent judicial authority here. Not only is the influence of the executive authority in the judiciary, we have influence here, or we will have if such a bill is passed, the influence of a paradoural authority on judicial authority. Because you here are legally threatening judges of regular courts that if they don't solve a situation, here, we have a Constitutional Court that's going to solve it the way the executive government wants it to. So, you've put in a new 59 members here, 42 changes, add 15, a total of 59, that you can't reveal the essence of the amendments and the addition of this law, and the essence is the increase in wages, pensions, work while they want it and little and big bigger, which doesn't allow you to do Article 175. The Constitution. Mr Krasic quoted article 175. The constitution doesn't even exist. You in the debate in principle under this bill explained something that was possible. It's not possible. Article 175. The Constitution, Article 1 states that and how the Constitutional Court decides and no other way exists, nor is the possibility of resolving it by law in any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65097	I would have covered both these two amendments to finish this. When a constitutional appeal is resolved, I don't know why a constitutional appeal should be required to define a claim, because it is not a claim, but so it turns out, for a claim for compensation for damages, etc. As far as this Article 33 is concerned, there is no significant change in Article 89, only that you have now singled out court decisions. So, when an individual legal act is annulled in connection with a constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court cannot annul the court's decision. There's something wrong with you, and that's how the sense of constitutional appeal fell out. I told you earlier, when the Constitution was passed in 2006, you remember Mrs. Comic, the idea with a constitutional appeal was to prewarn and prevent mass departures of demands and writing performances to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That's what happened. I remember very well. So, an individual legal act by the Authority of the Administration can be annulled if the constitutional appeal finds that there has been a violation of human and minority rights, but cannot be a judicial decision. Why? There's no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65098	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65099	This is the new member of 102a. In the proceedings under appeal by the judge, the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, the provisions of this law governing the procedure under the constitutional appeal shall be applied accordingly. It's a bit of a draw, to be kind of specific, because it's urgent to resolve the status of those who receive the pay and do nothing. They've been getting paid so well for two years and doing nothing. Now the question is, who provides the funds? Why are they being provided with funds? How can someone make a salary without doing anything? Where's that? I know it's in the National Assembly -- you don't have to come to the Assembly, you get paid. What are we doing, when are you gonna give us those 10% as judges of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Comic? Do you think it's funny? We die here, and they count money there. See for yourself what they're doing. That's funny to you, but that's the way it is. So people get paid and they don't work for two years. Why are they getting paid and not working for two years? How is that possible? They receive the same salary as the judges of the First Basic Court who have escaped from work, are buried in cases, according to Petar Jojic – a million cases and a million submissions, etc. How is that possible, please explain? Who's providing the money? Where'd he get the money? If it's secured from the budget, what's the revenue side of the budget for that money? Is that perhaps not an assignment? Or is it from the VAT? What's it made of? How do you provide money? On what legal basis do you pay them? If so, they have practically become a technological surplus. The judge's technological surplus. Right? For transforming the court. What do we do with employees in the economy who have become a technological surplus? Who's supposed to pay them a salary, a fee? How does a working relationship stop because it's a technological surplus, so the social program is exploited, etc., so it goes to the Employment Bureau, so there's some kind of salary in terms of years of work hours, six months, nine months, it doesn't matter? How can these people get full pay and do nothing? They're still bragging. I've got every month my association with the lawyers from Nis, we're ten generations old, and there's always that sheet at the end of the day, so we sign who works, communications phones. One of my colleagues has always written to me for two years – I'm sitting at home, getting paid. I'm asking him-- aman, man, what does that mean? He says I didn't go through the re-election. So, how are you? He says -- great, brother, you know how, pay's coming, I'm not going to work. There you go, Mrs. Comic. Now that we've said this will be based on the principles of constitutional appeal, it will be effectively resolved. You've probably forgotten that maybe those solutions won't be published, that the publication is delayed. And that publication will be delayed, so the public doesn't see who's back at work. Oh, we shaved bostan then.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65100	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 37. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65101	Mrs. Malovic, you have tried this bill to remove any irregularities, or almost all wrong in judicial reform, and it would not be terrible, it does not hurt, and I think it would be politically correct if you came here with a proposal that what was done was a mistake, to try to remove these problems from judicial reform in courts. You're trying here, but it's impossible, through the Constitutional Court Act, it's not possible to remove countless failures, countless mistakes, so by just establishing bad laws that regulate the justice system in Serbia. Then here you are trying to do it, but one day you're going to have to do it. Of course, it's not all your fault. The reform of the judiciary began after 2000, not since the moment you came to the head of the Justice Department. I reminded you when the debate was in principle that the justice reform strategy was adopted in 2006 and since then, problems have arisen. As regular court has them, the same problems exist in the Constitutional Court, especially in their work and activity, although they should be in charge, their only essential role is to preserve the constitutionality and legality of other acts. Since you didn't do it, it wasn't your goal, it seems, then you're proposing here some amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act, which in no way fix anything, actually leads to a worse situation. It's a direct violation of the Constitution, and we told you that when it comes to the creation of a large and small council, and the exemption from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the sitting to judge all 15 judges, as many as there are under the Constitution of this Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65102	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65103	Here's what Article 40 says. - the procedures to be initiated before the entry into force of this law will be terminated in accordance with the provisions of this law. That is rarely when there is an opportunity to hear, it usually ends under that law that was in force when the procedure was initiated. So you're detesting the rules of procedure from 15 days ago. How is it that, 15 days ago, a procedure initiated, and you say now, is not a good order of the procedure provisions, will apply after this law has been brought into force? It doesn't make sense. This is not a question of retroactivity, but this is a problem with the principle of legality. Excuse me, please. Under certain circumstances, under certain conditions, you're prescribing. Another thing this isn't a law where a more favourable punishment could be applied, because there's no punishment. But it can all be put into the law. What do we have in the other attitude? Requests for compensation shall be submitted to the Commission referred to in Article 90(3). By the date of entry into force of this Act, the Constitutional Court Act will be settled in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this Act. Wow, now the other way around. Compensation of damages to constitutional complaints, individual acts, etc. etc. The state should pay for the damages, established by the Constitutional Court, and enforcement goes through the ministry's commission. I would have covered both these two amendments to finish this. When a constitutional appeal is resolved, I don't know why a constitutional appeal should be required to define a claim, because it is not a claim, but so it turns out, for a claim for compensation for damages, etc. As far as this Article 33 is concerned, there is no significant change in Article 89, only that you have now singled out court decisions. So, when an individual legal act is annulled in connection with a constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court cannot annul the court's decision. There's something wrong with you, and that's how the sense of constitutional appeal fell out. I told you earlier, when the Constitution was passed in 2006, you remember Mrs. Comic, the idea with a constitutional appeal was to prewarn and prevent mass departures of demands and writing performances to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That's what happened. I remember very well. So, an individual legal act by the Authority of the Administration can be annulled if the constitutional appeal finds that there has been a violation of human and minority rights, but cannot be a judicial decision. Why? There's no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65105	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65106	This is the new member of 102a. In the proceedings under appeal by the judge, the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, the provisions of this law governing the procedure under the constitutional appeal shall be applied accordingly. It's a bit of a draw, to be kind of specific, because it's urgent to resolve the status of those who receive the pay and do nothing. They've been getting paid so well for two years and doing nothing. Now the question is, who provides the funds? Why are they being provided with funds? How can someone make a salary without doing anything? Where's that? I know it's in the National Assembly -- you don't have to come to the Assembly, you get paid. What are we doing, when are you gonna give us those 10% as judges of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Comic? Do you think it's funny? We die here, and they count money there. See for yourself what they're doing. That's funny to you, but that's the way it is. So people get paid and they don't work for two years. Why are they getting paid and not working for two years? How is that possible? They receive the same salary as the judges of the First Basic Court who have escaped from work, are buried in cases, according to Petar Jojic – a million cases and a million submissions, etc. How is that possible, please explain? Who's providing the money? Where'd he get the money? If it's secured from the budget, what's the revenue side of the budget for that money? Is that perhaps not an assignment? Or is it from the VAT? What's it made of? How do you provide money? On what legal basis do you pay them? If so, they have practically become a technological surplus. The judge's technological surplus. Right? For transforming the court. What do we do with employees in the economy who have become a technological surplus? Who's supposed to pay them a salary, a fee? How does a working relationship stop because it's a technological surplus, so the social program is exploited, etc., so it goes to the Employment Bureau, so there's some kind of salary in terms of years of work hours, six months, nine months, it doesn't matter? How can these people get full pay and do nothing? They're still bragging. I've got every month my association with the lawyers from Nis, we're ten generations old, and there's always that sheet at the end of the day, so we sign who works, communications phones. One of my colleagues has always written to me for two years – I'm sitting at home, getting paid. I'm asking him-- aman, man, what does that mean? He says I didn't go through the re-election. So, how are you? He says -- great, brother, you know how, pay's coming, I'm not going to work. There you go, Mrs. Comic. Now that we've said this will be based on the principles of constitutional appeal, it will be effectively resolved. You've probably forgotten that maybe those solutions won't be published, that the publication is delayed. And that publication will be delayed, so the public doesn't see who's back at work. Oh, we shaved bostan then.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65107	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 37. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65108	Mrs. Malovic, you have tried this bill to remove any irregularities, or almost all wrong in judicial reform, and it would not be terrible, it does not hurt, and I think it would be politically correct if you came here with a proposal that what was done was a mistake, to try to remove these problems from judicial reform in courts. You're trying here, but it's impossible, through the Constitutional Court Act, it's not possible to remove countless failures, countless mistakes, so by just establishing bad laws that regulate the justice system in Serbia. Then here you are trying to do it, but one day you're going to have to do it. Of course, it's not all your fault. The reform of the judiciary began after 2000, not since the moment you came to the head of the Justice Department. I reminded you when the debate was in principle that the justice reform strategy was adopted in 2006 and since then, problems have arisen. As regular court has them, the same problems exist in the Constitutional Court, especially in their work and activity, although they should be in charge, their only essential role is to preserve the constitutionality and legality of other acts. Since you didn't do it, it wasn't your goal, it seems, then you're proposing here some amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act, which in no way fix anything, actually leads to a worse situation. It's a direct violation of the Constitution, and we told you that when it comes to the creation of a large and small council, and the exemption from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the sitting to judge all 15 judges, as many as there are under the Constitution of this Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65109	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65110	Here's what Article 40 says. - the procedures to be initiated before the entry into force of this law will be terminated in accordance with the provisions of this law. That is rarely when there is an opportunity to hear, it usually ends under that law that was in force when the procedure was initiated. So you're detesting the rules of procedure from 15 days ago. How is it that, 15 days ago, a procedure initiated, and you say now, is not a good order of the procedure provisions, will apply after this law has been brought into force? It doesn't make sense. This is not a question of retroactivity, but this is a problem with the principle of legality. Excuse me, please. Under certain circumstances, under certain conditions, you're prescribing. Another thing this isn't a law where a more favourable punishment could be applied, because there's no punishment. But it can all be put into the law. What do we have in the other attitude? Requests for compensation shall be submitted to the Commission referred to in Article 90(3). By the date of entry into force of this Act, the Constitutional Court Act will be settled in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this Act. Wow, now the other way around. Compensation of damages to constitutional complaints, individual acts, etc. etc. The state should pay for the damages, established by the Constitutional Court, and enforcement goes through the ministry's commission. For those completed cases, where it was on the board table, it will continue according to the provisions of the law 15 days ago. You see, just now, for those who are in progress, it's not 15 days ago, but for the next 15 days. You know, there's something wrong with that. That's where you completely messed up. There's something you're up against, something you're hiding. There's a flyer out there and it's heavy. We'll see. I think that flies exist because of this delay in publishing the Constitutional Court's decision. You want something in six months to skip, bridge. There's a lot of things that's possible. For example, I would check the legality and constitutionality of this variant as the Ministry of Agriculture employs these agronomies, 1,800 experts who tour houses and villages etc. All 30,000 dinars carry nursing homes, preparing for the next election. Take it easy, people, take care of what you're doing. Bodrum two, it can't happen. You see, from the very reading of this text, the first and second attitudes, you see that something here is wrong. We asked to erase it. Of course, what we suggest doesn't answer. A big explanation why it doesn't fit, but a weak vision. If you don't mind, Mrs. Comic, I suppose I have a little more time. We now have the situation, he says, on the date of entry into force of this law, the provisions of the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, in the work concerning how the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court pay is determined. Why didn't you bring state officials and deputies into the Constitutional Court? Well, you've given them great significance in those provisions. No, it won't apply to them. Well, I don't give a damn about judges either. And they will be subject to the general wage law. What do you mean now? To draw them out as a special category. How do you think the National Assembly can allow you to destroy the legal system? I agree it's not good. What did that Balinian do with that civil servants' and salaries bill? The law specifically worked when it comes to salaries, Balinovac and Junior. So and pepper. You can imagine how bad that is. So we got the tenants, that's what happened. And the Civil Service Act worked for us by Balinovac. We couldn't calm him down if it wasn't good. Now we all suffer the consequences of it. I'm not just criticizing you. Don't get me wrong. I have a retrospective, I remember, I'm a bad memory big. I remember all the evils that were done to this people. Now we're going round and round. Now we can bite each other. But the Balinian blurred and left. Where'd he go? The flight control agency. He doesn't care. The younger one is now tabulated by the local communities and painted as the buttocks of Kiric. Here, look at the problem. And in 2005, we drew your attention that it would be a problem, so you didn't believe. Now, this is an insolvent problem. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65111	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. You've got nine minutes and thirty seconds left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 40a be added after article 40a. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65112	Thank you. This member, the need to give such an amendment, is in fact consistent because of all previously submitted amendments that restrict the performance of the function, or resolve conflict of interest. We're with that 40. This is how you arranged that part. "The Constitutional Court judge, who, on the day of entry into force of this law, performs a second function or work, shall be obliged to suspend and inform the President of the Constitutional Court within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, or to resign to the functions of the Constitutional Court within the same period. "The next position – "The Constitutional Court Judge, who, on the date of entry into force of this law, is required to cease teaching and inform the President of the Constitutional Court within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, or to resign within the same period as the Judge of the Constitutional Court. "And a third position – "The Constitutional Court Judge, who, on the date of entry into force of this law, did not submit a report on the property and income under the law governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions, is obliged to submit the report within 15 days from the date of entry into force of this law and to provide evidence to the President of the Constitutional Court. "At present, for all these three positions, we regulate that the Constitutional Court judge, who does not act in accordance with the positions set out in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article, shall cease to act by law, with the date of expiry of the term of office, 1, 2 and 3, where we have given them three months, 15 days and 30 days, without the right to pay upon termination of office under Article 21 of this Law. So, we tried to make all of those previous amendments, where we suggested that the judge couldn't do the job of a professor at the university, that he had to establish a working relationship in the Constitutional Court and act as a judge as the only job to protect independence and impartiality and prevent conflicts of interest, to which a particular salary is sufficient to ensure that independence. We have determined by searching the data that one number of judges performs other paid jobs and functions, as well as that six judges have failed to report property and income, although it is contrary to the applicable law on the Constitutional Court and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. In order to ensure respect for the law, independence and up-to-date work, in order to protect the reputation of the Constitutional Court and the judges, we have proposed that the adoption of this amendment and that the Court, the Constitutional Court and the Judges whose constitutional obligation is to protect constitutionality and legality and human rights and freedoms, must also have the highest responsibility for respect for the Constitution and the law and to set an example for all others. It may not be too great a reminder that when I enter the office of the judge, I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work, and that I will do my duty with honor, security and impartiality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65113	It was used two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group, and this is the last amendment to be submitted and is the subject of our debate in the debate in particular. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Time available for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65114	I don't have to, and I'll be done in one minute. We have proposed that Article 41 be deleted because we have proposed that the previous amendments be deleted from Articles 9 and 10 which are subject to a derogation from the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. We have explained for reasons that there is no need to pass the specific laws that make this possible, and therefore we are also looking for an expropriation of Article 41. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65115	Do any of the other participants who have time come forward for a word, since the last amendment is in the search? Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65116	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I thank all MPs who participated in the debate in principle and detail. I especially thank the MPs who participated in the debate in principle and detail. I especially thank those who have tabled certain amendments that have indeed been the subject of our detailed and detailed consideration. Once again, at the end of this debate, I would like to remind myself that the existing Constitutional Court Act was passed in 2007, when the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court gave certain jobs that the Constitutional Court had not done before, or did not know. That came from the Constitution of 2006. In particular, I am referring to procedures under constitutional appeals, or complaints by the holder of judicial functions. What was bad at the time was that the Constitutional Court, apart from the existing backlog that he had in his work, was particularly with regard to the assessment of certain general acts. Here we heard in the discussion today that recent answers to initiatives have been received that have been known maybe ten years ago. In addition to these delays, he also received cases from the Serbia-Montenegro court, all of which were initially a very abundant number of cases, which unfortunately so far failed to overcome. In addition, a significant number of constitutional appeals cases have been brought to the constitutional court. I am pleased with the fact that the European Court of Human Rights has found that the constitutional appeal is an effective legal remedy, and we of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who have the obligation and jurisdiction to propose legal texts, are obliged to enable the smooth effective work of the Constitutional Court, especially if we are talking about the procedures of constitutional appeals. In this bill of law, as you yourself have concluded, we have tried to do so. I'll also state the fact that according to our data, the number of constitutional complaints that currently exist in the Constitutional Court is somewhere around nine thousand. We simply don't want to get to the point of having a trial in an unreasonable time before such a sublime body, and that's why we've tried to make changes in the organisation and decision-making of the Constitutional Court, and that's why we've found provisions concerning the formation of a small and large council. As I said in my discussion and in principle, they follow the provisions of the Constitution and, by my deep conviction, do not at any time violate constitutional provisions or the principle of constitutionality, because a decision by the Great Council requires eight votes, which is the majority in the Constitutional Court, since their composition is made up of 15 judges. As for the small larger ones, however, three judges do not have the authority to decide on the scale, so their decisions are through conclusions and solutions and they are solely procedural. We have also tried to insert in this proposal provisions concerning both the status and the appointment of the election of Constitutional Judges as I have said in my address during this debate I will deeply respect any decision by the Assembly which may also affect the amendment of certain provisions that do not contain this bill. So once again, I thank all those who participated in the debate, and I hope that by adopting this bill, we will get an even more effective work of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65117	Anyone else want a word before we close the search in particular? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to express my satisfaction because these three amendments of New Serbia have been adopted regarding the Constitutional Court law. What I find very important is that Article 14 adds new points of view to Article 5. Paragraph 2 shall be amended and shall read exceptionally from the position of 1 of this Article. The Constitutional Court may extend the workings of the Court of Justice until the end of the cases in which it has been engaged, and the longest to the end of the time it has been elected, or the name with its consent. I think the government did well to accept this amendment, that we have completely made this one situation that I see these days and quite publicly criticised in a way that has been clarified and repaired. Finally, practically, these discussions cannot, without pointing out this one truly fact which will practically make a big mistake, given that regarding these salaries that are being violated by the Constitution, compensation is completely one unconstitutional category being placed there in the largest institution, in that institution that decides on all irregularities when constitutional solutions are in appeal, etc., etc. We have seen that there are great criticisms, and I am going to ask the question of the Minister -- what will happen on this principle in regular courts if the composition is unscathed, someone can be called by analog principle as at the Constitutional Court. I think you should have accepted that amendment to the NS because I say not only us, but one general professional public expresses criticism about all this. Finally, I will also say that the legislator finds that the proposed amendments create legal assumptions for the more effective work of the Constitutional Court and in particular strengthens its independence and independence in financial terms. I find it absolutely necessary for the Constitutional Court to be independent in every way possible, but I do not see this effect being achieved in an adequate manner by the proposed Article of the 11th Law. It is envisaged that the Government, without the consent of the Constitutional Court representative, cannot suspend, delay or limit the implementation of the Constitutional Court budget. In our circumstances, it is difficult to imagine the situation for a person who has such personal integrity to stand up to the government of the Republic of Serbia to come to the position of the President of the Constitutional Court. That's why I think it would be a better solution if, in another way, this all came up in a relationship between the government and the Constitutional Court. That the envisaged consent is required from a relevant meeting of the Constitutional Court. For example, by giving consent in writing by the majority of the Constitutional Court or sitting alone or in a third way. So, once again in the end, I'm going to say that NS tried something that, in terms of some criticism of the public, the government respected three amendments. We appreciate that satisfaction, but we think there was room for this amendment to be accepted for the part relating to the distribution of personal income when the Constitutional Court is in a defiled composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-23-0.u65119	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the search on all amendments, and I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. It's a voter's day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Monday, December 26th, 2011 starting at 10.00pm as the day for voting on the agenda points of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I also remind you that on Monday, December 26th, a new session of the regular session is scheduled to begin with the beginning of 12:00, where one of the items of the agenda is the draft Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget with the accompanying laws and other points on which the Assembly will be declared by the adoption of the agenda. Thank you, and I'll see you Monday at 10.00 hours.
