ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52076	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, the Serbian Radical Party was doing something in 2001, we were running some procedures, we were looking for answers to some questions. You know, when that democracy comes, it's all blocked and there's no answer to our questions. I would remind the public and the authorities that it can no longer be avoided now, there must be a concrete answer to all the questions concerning, in the people known, the Mercedes-Benz affair. Thousands of Mercedes have entered our country via Inex; there are entire criminal miles, many elements of organised crime can be talked about in the relationship between customs-police-banks-exporters-exporters and their families and politicians as sponsors, as protectors. You know that some of them got Mercedes on a gift, or as state officials or as ordinary natural persons. The situation is very simple. When the state government is so privatised, passenger cars are "mercedes", when they come to customs, not customs as passenger cars, with a customs rate of 40 and some percent, but customs as drugs - 7%. But the buyer doesn't see that 7% is paid, but he gets 40 percent in his invoice. The question is, where is the difference? We discovered this criminal affair, called the responsible, asked for official answers from the state, however, all this was blocked. Why? Because some very important politicians are involved in this operation. To make things even weirder, the Mercedes customers in Serbia were given a product, reportedly new, with a feller, with a mistake. So, the "mercedes" could not be sold in Belgium, the Netherlands and France, but by mistake it could be sold in Serbia, through declarations that it was vehicles intended for Tehran, Delhi, Kazakhstan, etc. Based on a simple insight into the computer system, when the numbers are ticking, the truth simply can't be hidden, it's coming out of the computer. Of course, we raise a lot of questions, someone's holding it back. However, it is clear that both the prosecution and the judiciary have come to know the details, they have spoken to their friends from this FBI, where their report (not this today's Wikiliks about Miskovic, this was before), mentioning politicians from 22 states, which states Croatia, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Serbia-Montenegro, Turkey, etc. However, there is no answer. Now we'll tell you why there's no answer. The answer was stopped by Republic Public Prosecutor Zorica Stojsic, which is why criminal charges were filed against her, and now the prosecutor for organised crime, Miljko Radisavljevic. He, in his failure to act as prosecutor, made it possible for this affair to be covered up, and a large number of people should respond. Here's your last piece of information, from March 18th, 2011. It's impossible to stop this. Dear MPs, I find it appropriate to request, on your behalf, a notice from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to provide us with a list of all those who have received the Mercedes, a list of all those who are... (President: Will you bring the end, we understand, and the question...) ) Only lists to get, who got the Mercedes, who got the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52077	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52078	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. I think it is very current, and I expect the prime minister to respond significantly more up-to-date than otherwise is the rule in this kind of relationship between Parliament and the government. In fact, it concerns the intervention that followed the Security Council resolution in Libya. First, we are a country that cannot remain without civilian casualties in Libya. We're the country that still feels the scars of the 1999 bombing. There is no obligation that hinders our authority from acting the way a responsible government should behave in one serious country. For years, we have believed that this country has specific relations with Libya, relations that go beyond politics and can be described as much more friendly than as political. If all this is true, if our authority is to be serious, then it must do something and make it very clear what its position is about what is happening in Libya. We're a party that wants Serbia's NATO membership. In silence of the current government, we recognize in fact the inability to take on the kind of role that the government wants to change the country should accept. Our politicians have been acting like Gaddafi's clowns for years. I also think of those who run this country today. A few months ago, we took a unit of our country's army to Libya to parade there in front of Gaddafi. They weren't alone there, they were with those who bombed Libya today. Gaddafi was the same, and it's still today. Our country, the government has already made a big mistake in foreign policy; it has remained absent and has kept silent before the brutal reckoning of Gaddafi with its citizens, before civilian casualties. We've been satisfied with the declarative decision to suspend co-operation in the area of the military industry. Then we made another mistake, so we remained silent before the new civilian death, which this time suffers not because of Gaddafi killing them, but because of the bombing, primarily by the military of America, France and the UK and, as far as we can see, Spain, Italy, Denmark, Norway that joined and supported this military intervention. This military intervention exceeds the Security Council's decisions, which has passed the resolution to protect civilians. We expect our government to make very clear the views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government on which it must answer, above all because it is our internal political need. If we were a NATO member, we would behave as Turkey and Germany behave today – we would be against bombing, violence and we would seek responsibility for civilian casualties. How many people need to die in Libya to question our government's responsibility for such a thing as a full member of the UN and a country that has suffered under bombs? What does our foreign minister do, except he has so much understanding for meeting with cannibals in Africa, that today he would be the foreign minister who can't declare the state's position first to condemn the civilian's death because she herself was the victim of an internal policy that has been confrontationd with the whole world, and then blinding politics that, even though it has "smart" bombs, does not make a difference between soldiers and civilians. We think that the government should plead, that it is urgent to react, condemn civilian deaths and in a very clear way to launch a political initiative, which would be consistent with the level of relations we have been assured of for years, if it is about the relationship between Belgrade and official Tripoli. If our relations are so special, let someone engage in this country to intervene in overcoming that agony that is obvious and that must be unacceptable for every democratic society. What's going on out there today is the death of other civilians, civilians in Tripoli. It's not a policy that we need to solidify ourselves with, it's a policy that we need to condemn and propose the measures that this problem will be overcome and solved. It's obvious we're silent because we were first Gaddafi clowns, and now we'd be Obama clowns. Neither of us is a policy worthy of what this country's character is, and the character of this country should be what we've been building for years -- democratic, toleranceal, very clear, with precise attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52079	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have a question for Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister Oliver Dulic, as well as Minister Mrkonjic. My question is, why did it give up an idea project on a highway passing through the Gredile ravine? Last year, we had a series of meetings in Mr Dulic's cabinet and the meeting was always attended by representatives of his ministry, including himself, representatives of the Ministry of Capital Investments, representatives of the public enterprises "The Railways of Serbia", "The Paths of Serbia", K10, as well as representatives of the CIP. At these meetings were attended by a delegation from Leskovac, at the highest level, all MPs from this house also attended, and the mayor of the town of Leskovac and the president of the assembly. It is agreed that the CIP will do an idea project on K10 highways that will benefit the citizens of Jablani County, i.e. Predejana's township. However, when an idea project was done, the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" gave up the idea project. Mr. Zivojin Stefanovic, president of the assembly, has sued for these reasons (and he is a member of the SPS, senior member of the SPS), the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Capital Investments, the Public Enterprise "Corridor 10", as well as the Public Enterprise "The Paths of Serbia" because they have retarded the position, from the conclusion at the meeting and gave up the idea project. I'm afraid Serbia is ruled by certain mafias day and day, especially when it comes to travel policy. They used to be road mobs, and now it's the tunnel mob, which doesn't give up on its project. In fact, this project that the CIP has offered is cheaper 11m euros than that project we now have on the table. For the first time in local self-government, we have a political consensus to launch certain radical measures when it comes to this idea project, because if the highway bypasses Predejana, then we put the key in the lock. There is a motel, Predejane, which was eventually named the best privatised company in 2003. That motel feeds about 600 mouths from that space. The moment the highway bypasses this place and that motel, we can put the key in the lock. If this government declares itself equal regional development, then it's time to show it, but if it's just a dead letter on paper, okay, let them tell us in time. With this procedure, you're going to run a huge migration from these spaces, and since physics doesn't know about the empty space, you're assuming who's going to move into that space. I ask once again the respected ministers to reconsider this decision, to accept an idea project offered by the CIP, as it is cheaper for 11,000,000 euros. Exactly that much will cost the taxpayers of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52081	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Konstantin Samofalov, Vuk Dinčić, Ivan Jovanovic, Olena Papuga. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to attend, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, and: Aleksandra Damnjanović Petrovic and Nebojsa Janjic, Assistant Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Milija Djalović, Head of the Department of Normal Work in the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments: Milan Avramović, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Radojko Obradović, Mirko Munjić, Bojan Mladenović, Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Živović, Dragan Stevanović, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Šarović, Radojko Obradović, Odip Sheriffov, Bojan Stanojević, Radiša Ilić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Nenadović, Maja Laušević, Dusan Marić, Milan Škrbić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentević, Bojan Žurić, Nenaslav Milović, Nenadoštović, Omišanić, Miražanović, Žaljan Žalić, Miražanić Žalić, Žalić Žalić Zaktović, Zaktović, Miražin Žalić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Milan, Milić, Drag, Milan, Milan, Drag, Milan, Milan, Drag, Milan, Milan, Milan, Drag, Milan, Milan, Milan, Drag, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Milan, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Milan, Milan, Drag, Drag, Drag, Milan, Drag, Milan, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Drag, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Drag, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, V. National MP Vladan Jeremic, written on March 2, 2011 at 15 hours and 45 minutes, withdrew the amendment submitted to Article 78(3). It's a bill of law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dragan Stevanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to which we have intervened in this article at the point of "preparation works", where we have asked that from this concept, or from this group of preparatory works, the excavation under the basic pit, the construction of protection of the basic pit, the construction of spikes or the fields of spikes under the facility. It seems to me that this is the explanation the Ministry gave us, or the government, has given us quite a bit. This is where the government told us that, among other things, by accepting this amendment, delaying land in its intended purpose would take place. That's really not true, we in no way wanted to challenge the possibility of bringing the land in for purposes, but you have to accept the fact, both you, Mr. Minister and your associates, that digging the foundation, its security and setting up the spikes is not the same as putting the fence where construction works are going to be done. Just not accepting the amendment gives room and opportunity for abuse. The foundation seems technical, so we wrote in the explanation, and a functional continent of one object and works based on can't be treated as preparatory. It's a place of abuse. This creates an opportunity to move in one direction where the project does not predict that they are going and can be abused. It is not our intention, I repeat, to challenge the possibility or need for land to be detained for purposes, but what you have predicted is that preparatory work in technical terms really cannot represent preparatory work. You can't build one foundation today, and on that basis tomorrow you plan to make the object a different gauge, smaller, larger, or any kind of plan document or project. So we suggest that you reconsider this, take this into account and that the works you listed as preparations are treated as other works, not preparatory works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52083	Thank you. To article 6 or to this amendment? According to the amendment, he wants Mr Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52084	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I will use the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In principle, we said that this law was passed 18 months ago and that after extensive analysis by the competent ministry of these amendments and additions tried to clarify certain procedures, to reduce costs, to speed up the process, to more precisely define certain provisions of this law. It's in Article 2 of these amendments and additions, which actually regulates the basic concepts that go through the whole law... We really do not understand why this amendment is not accepted. We also spoke of the principle that the making of spikes and fields of spikes cannot be classified into preparatory work. These are probably one of the most important constructive works in making a particular object. We believe Minister Dulic should accept this amendment because we cannot mix different things. This is not a precision of any provision. Every construction engineer will tell you that the making of spikes can't possibly be classified in the preparatory work, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52085	Minister Oliver Dulic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52086	The basic idea of this amendment was to achieve that construction firms get to the site as soon as possible and start working, which are not only preparatory works, but are also the beginning of serious construction works, while other procedures are in place for the issue of adequate permits. But you're right, given that your argument is very strong, it's true that within the construction profession itself, the jobs standing here, which are making protection of the basic pit, making spikes or fields of spikes under the building, are pure construction works, we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52087	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Miroslav Petkovic, who is also an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52088	Article 6 proposes to delete Article 2 in the old law, i.e. in the basic law in Article 15. The whole member regulates the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia and what it needs in particular to contain, and a strategic environmental impact assessment is deleted as an integral part of each plan. We were saying, Minister, that this law contains different things that had to be regulated by individual, special laws. So it includes both spatial and urban planning, design, construction, construction land, provisions related to the engineering chamber, legalization. I can agree with you that this area, meaning the environmental protection assessment, is regulated and some other regulations, but I really don't understand, when you've already put these things that shouldn't be in this law into amendments and additions to this law, why this strategic environmental impact assessment was kicked out of it. I think it's extremely important to find it in this law, to simplify the procedure and to make it clear, first of all, to people in local self-government. We'll come to that article later, which is why we need to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52089	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52090	In practice, four amendments are related to these articles that you have read, 8, 9 and 10, and are related to one very important matter, related to spatial plans. There are really incomprehensible differences between these plans, which should not exist in one law like this. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia contains the basics for making, and an evaluation of the existing situation is deleted. Something quite different is in regional spatial plans. The spatial plan of units of local self-government does not contain either the basics of production or the assessment of the existing state. The spatial plan of the specific purpose area contains the basics but does not contain an assessment of the existing situation. I think this will lead to confusion in the application of this law, and that is why we have suggested that these provisions be deleted, and that the provisions of the current law be applied, because we think they are more precise than what was offered in the amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52091	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. This was on Article 9. Now, the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52092	I've already said that the amendments to these articles have been tried in a unique way to capture this matter. The argument is the same as the previous report, I just forgot to thank Minister Dulic for accepting our argument and accepting the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52093	Is there anyone else who wants a word about the amendment to article 9 or Article 10? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s Parliament of the Prophets of Radeto, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to remember which pump this law is announced with, I don't know which order, the Law of Planning and Construction. Every time, for eleven years, the competent ministers have promised that all problems would be solved by adopting, each time, a new law: problems in regulating building land, in building with building permits, in legalising buildings that were built without construction permits. Unfortunately, no law so far has answered the right questions and is nowhere near a solution that really exists in the area of planning and construction. The law we passed, which you passed 17 months ago... When we talked about this law, we claimed that the law was vague, inadmissible, that there were many harmful provisions. When you announced the amendments to this law, we expected that you would indeed change it, in the sense that you would solve all the problems that existed in application, or rather say, in the inability to apply the existing law. We claimed you were passing a completely inapplicable law. You didn't believe us. We're saying the same thing today. You bring inapplicable and completely unclear law and you will not solve anything in an area where there really is a lot of problems. When we spoke in the principle debate, Mr. Minister, we from the SRS brought out a series of concrete things and we expect you to answer all these questions today. We can accept that you didn't know them that day, but in the meantime you must have talked to your associates, sent people to the field and seen what your Law on Planning and Construction actually produced. When you wanted to change the law, you should have looked back on those remarks we made to you 17 months ago and noticed that precisely because of these remarks, the law was wrong. By changing the law with this many members, you yourself have more than half the members of the law, almost two-thirds, changed, and thus admitted that the first law is no good for you. We don't understand why you don't accept the suggestions of Serbian Radical Party MPs now. It's pretty amazing that only our amendments weren't up to you, because none of our amendments were adopted. It is not good that you view amendments, MPs and parliamentary groups in this way. You should accept the fact, Mr. Minister, that we do understand each other a little bit in this area. I claim that we understand each other much more than your associates who have suggested this law to you. When we submitted this amendment to Article 16, we just wanted this member to be clearer, to be possible to apply. I was telling you, when we talked in the principle debate and about the previous amendments to this law, that people who work in local self-government in this area came to us and asked us to help them explain some legal norms, which are incredibly confusing, unclear. Simply, people read nine times and don't know how to apply that norm, because the norm is so written that no lawyer is able to apply it. That's what this norm is to you. What did you foresee and why you changed Article 31, because Article 16 refers to Article 31 of the basic law? We predicted and asked to delete attitude 2, first of all, to clarify this article. You are the rules of regulation and the rules of construction so intertwined here that it is not clear what article 2 of Article 31 is really about. With these amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, you have not sufficiently defined and distinguished what the rules of construction are, and what the rules of construction are. You have to accept that these are two completely different terms. You say the amendment is not accepted, because the building rules refer to building a building, but are applied in correlation with the characteristics of each individual building plot. What you're saying is we really don't want to guess, because it's completely vague and confusing what you wrote. Now we're asking and we're trying to explain to you what the rules are and what the rules are. You have a lot of specific cases... And that's exactly why problems happen with so-called. illegal construction. Otherwise, we do not like to use the term “illegal construction, ” it is only construction without a building permit. We remind you that construction without a building permit in more than 90% of cases is a faulty state and local self-government is guilty. A man can't wait for local self-government to have mercy on him, to give him a building permit, to arrange the construction permit, to arrange the construction plot, to make some plans. Unfortunately, it's not just at a time when you're a minister, but for many years back, the state has not heard about people who needed to build because of family expansion, because of the possibility of building plots that the authorities never wanted to organize as building plots. And then people were building without a building permit. You're not trying to help these people right now. When you talk, when a man listens to you he would say – this minister really wants to help people who built without a building permit and wants to help as few people as possible today build without a building permit. By law like this, Minister, you're not helping anyone, you're confusing people who apply this law. People can't interpret it. I claim that neither this lady beside you, who, at the time, publicly said that you do not understand, but she understands, I claim that she is not able to properly interpret Article 16, or Article 31(2), which, believe me, means absolutely nothing. We suggest, not only do you accept our amendments, that we do not see each other again about this law, it would be best if you withdraw this law from the procedure, because, believe me, Minister, nothing has been well done. These co-workers of yours, smiling, smiled the same way when we talked about the law 17 months ago... (President: Don't, for the sake of the public, tell a lie. Nobody smiles. They're very serious. ) Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, you don't see them, I see that young gentleman smiling. They turn their backs on you, and the people's messengers look into your face. So I didn't tell the truth at all, but what I saw with my own eyes, but it doesn't matter. It's not funny to them because Serbian citizens still have huge problems, on the one hand, with the possibility of legalising buildings they built without a building permit. It's still just a dead letter on paper, and it's still just a bunch of cases and demands in local self-government and there's no movement in solving these problems. The bigger problem is that people are still in a situation, they're forced to build without building permits, because you, gentlemen dear, didn't do anything. Nothing has been done by local self-government, nothing has been planned, nothing has been done since the existing plans were implemented. He continues to do whatever he will, and unfortunately he who has money does it; not for the building, and he who has the money for the building should build, but he who has the money to bribe the officers and the chiefs of the local government. Here, and today we have a man who says he sued some God Milosavljevic in the municipality of Zemun and some others who are at the head of this resort where construction permits are issued, because building permits get people in a magical way and by building... This is specifically about the former street of Marko Oreshković (I don't know what it's called now, because every moment the street names are changed), where the man got a building permit to build on a plot where only family construction is allowed to build an object that basically has 400 square meters, where apartments are for sale, and absolutely endangers the physical objects that are legally built on plots around. We talked about such examples last time, but unfortunately, it still happens. Certainly, it's not just in this community, it's wherever you go. Wherever you go. Here, I'm getting some colleagues - on the Leader. Of course, and there. They're writing a paper about it, and you're not doing anything about it, and why? You can't even do anything, because you don't have a good law. You don't have legal provisions on which your inspectors might react. We talked last time about an object on Ivic Street in Zemun, where your inspectors checked that a building permit was actually obtained. And no one found out that the Institute for the Protection of Monuments allowed a building permit to be obtained in that place and that it had given its consent at all. There are so many, unfortunately, blurry; there have always been them in this area. It's simply an area where by nature things are mostly suitable ground for corruption, for crime, for bribery, for bribery, from the lowest officer to the chief. Now it's happening to you, Minister, that someone in agreement with the inspector starts construction on Friday afternoon, when the inspectors go home; someone reports it, the inspector shows up on Monday and sees a building with the first plate. Then it should be proven when that facility was built. So as long as you don't regulate this area legally, and as long as you're not stricter to the inspectors, there will be no order in this area. We reminded you, you'll see further through the amendments, when the basic law was passed you shouldn't have allowed so much range in punishment, you shouldn't have allowed the penalties for construction without permission to be such that anyone who builds without permission was paid to double the penalty to the inspector and to build peacefully. So it's not a good whole law, and I'm specifically talking about this Article 31 and Article 2 whose erasure we've been looking for. For the sake of the public, I will read it, and see if anyone will be able to interpret what it reads here: “The building rules set out in Article 1 of this article are designed for the most important purposes, i.e. areas covered by the plan, and they relate to individual building plots to the extent that they are the basis for issuing the location permit on the total plot covered by the plan, except for the building land covered by the plan for which further planning work is required. ” When I read this, my first association was "The mouth" and a five-hectare parcel that was given for free to the owner of "The mouth", because it had a similar provision as it is in this law. So you're still creating conditions for corruption, for crime, for bribery and bribery, and that also means illegal construction, for dangerous construction, dangerous environments. A little bit so we read that some investor who has the money got permission to build next to him crashed a house that is 50-60 years old because he has money, so this member allows him to get to the border of the property where the legal house is and that house is destroyed, people have no place to live. They almost wrote a newspaper about an older lady who lived in the Hotel "Slavija", so more municipalities won't pay her for it, either, because the investor took her house down. I mentioned to you, in Zemun, on Plant Street, an investor knocked down a house on the border of his plot. So if you really want to put order in this area the way you talk, then, Mr. Minister, pull this law out of the process. I just want to mention something to you about your ministry. A few days ago, we asked a question about digging canals in the Altina area. Since you are in favour, and it is in the jurisdiction of your ministry, to preserve the human environment, it would be good for you to send your inspectors to Altina to see why the municipality of Zemun and the city of Belgrade do not allocate certain funds to the Public Business Galovica in Athens to cleanse existing channels and to dig up new ones, so that those people there do not choke in feces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52095	I would like to go back to Article 9, because a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 9th amendment, and I did not inform you that the government had accepted the amendment and therefore there was probably no interest in participating in the debate. MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I came back because I didn't ask if anyone wanted a word, but they wouldn't. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. National MP Zoran Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS insists on respecting the Law on State Administration, and regarding all legal projects arriving from the Government, in which inappropriate powers are given to ministers, we react. We claim that the minister is not the authority of the state administration, that he is a member of the government and that the original powers must belong to the ministries. In that sense, we have also reacted to this amendment. Unfortunately, very often in our laws we have confusion about jurisdiction, we have a lot of discretionary rights of ministers. I think the opportunity to prove it through an example from Jagodina, where it is obvious that the ministry, the minister himself, knowingly or unconsciously, has come into the situation that a rather clean situation regarding the legalization of one facility, refers to the discount “King”, a man who has been working as a private entrepreneur for 20 years, who legalized his facility in 2006, is under question. To a solution legalizing the registration of the facility in 2010 from one company, X Trade gentlemen, objected. The complaint was rejected by the municipal catastra and they were referred to the appeal within 15 days of the Republic of Geodesy. Interestingly, the company, X Trade, built the building literally up to the facility, and in this case it is placed as an interested person who is trying to use the help of lawyers, not selecting funds, to get to these facilities (Jagodins know it well): "Paris", the current Irish pub, and a few other facilities that go out onto the main street. All of this would have been fine if it hadn't been for the Ministry, yours, Mr. Dulic, and according to your special authority, that item from the Republic Geodesy Bureau has been transferred to your ministry. I don't know if you're aware of that, how it was done. Without any legal basis, the Ministry has given itself the right to be placed above the Republic Geodetic Institute. A solution was reached by a certain Mrs. Aleksandra Damjanović Petrovic, who is inadmissible. When the subject was returned to the municipal cathedral, your authority was not in the case. No one knows today what your authority looks like, which is why it's been issued, what are the arguments to issue that authority of yours. It was inconclusive because you confirmed that a man had the right to legalize an object, but he has no right to legalize an object in his own name, because he bought it twenty years ago from some first owner. One totally absurd, inapplicable solution, which they are trying to force to implement in the municipal catastrophe. That's why we have one application for a rally, excuse me, mobing, which refers to the mayor of the municipal catastrian administration. The Mittins are now current, as far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, so I got a little carried away. So we have a problem implementing that solution issued by your ministry. The administrative dispute has been initiated. What is interesting, the ministry asked the Administrative Court to stop the settlement after the start of the administrative dispute because it considers that it has the possibility of supplementing the solution in some way. The subject was physically retaken by the Ministry. It is obvious that someone has a desire to put pressure on the owner, who has been working as an entrepreneur for 20 years and has come into a situation to buy the facility, to take away the property or literally kidnap him. It is doubtful that the whole process is run by X Trade, which is directly interested in the location, has the desire to continue building the building (one part of the building has already been done), exits to the main street, making the price of these apartments significantly higher. As far as your ministry is concerned, in order for all of this to remain without any doubt the correctness of all that has been done, it is primarily necessary to see this special authority. Please, if possible, this may not be the time for a parliamentary question, but somehow to come up with this authority where we will see the arguments which are why you have singled out that authority. I suppose you have thousands of complaints in the Republic Geodetic Service, but it was interesting to the Ministry of Urbanism and Planning. Perhaps another question: how many such items have you taken over from the Republic Geodetic Institute in 2009 and 2010, and how many complaints have been made by the Republic Geodetic Institute in these two years? On this basis, I think it will be possible for me to gain insight into whether some citizens in Serbia can be privileged so that I repeat once again, without any legal basis, try to resolve through the Republic Geodetic Institute, disabling the institutions of the system and putting it above the law. It would be interesting to know why your ministry sought a standstill in a procedure initiated by the Administrative Court. We in Jagodina have gotten the impression that the Ministry of Jagodina's problems is not right, that there are some shortcuts for individuals and that all citizens are not the same before this ministry; that's what our fear is. I'm sure if, with your good will, we get the information, we'll know in the future how to conduct this trial, since it's obvious that this will all end in court. I'm not saying you're up to it, you're probably the first time you've heard of this, but I'm asking you to get involved, see what's going on, because this is one man that the whole of Jagodina knows that everything he's acquired through hard work, working more than 20 years as an entrepreneur. It is extremely inappropriate for individuals who have acquired capital in a suspicious way to treat entrepreneurs in Jagodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52097	The word has a minister. Mr. Dolliche, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52098	Let me just give you an explanation: special authority, it's about the application of the State Prime Minister and Cataster Act; since 1 January of this year, the Ministry has been a second-degree body by decision by appeal, when it comes to the whole cadastrian business. For this reason, the case is likely to have been taken over, along with another 5,000 cases from all over Serbia. Please bring that item after this session, and let's see what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52099	Thank you. Mr. Anticu, in the time frame, would you like to?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52100	Within time. Another piece of information, Minister: we have reconstructed and unconstructed catastres, as far as I know and how much information I've received from my attorney. When it comes to reconstructed catastres, you have the right to react as a second-degree organ, but the strawberry cadastre is still unconstructed, and only after this job is finished, as far as I know about the law, will you have the right to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52101	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Vladimir Milentijevic. Mr. Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52102	Madam President, we agreed to discuss a very important law. Please concentrate and explain to me whether the amendment of MP Bojana Stanojevic to the government has accepted and has, since the president of the Committee is not here, become an integral part of the text? It says in the shirt – the government has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52103	I'm very focused. The government accepted, but did not become an integral part of the text, and we will plead on it. I've just explained that, so please concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52104	I didn't hear the minister say he accepted this amendment, so we wouldn't talk about it needlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52105	And in writing, you have information.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52106	We don't have a committee and we don't have a minister. This member is very important, indeed. Defines mutual coherence of plans and procedures for granting consent. Some deadlines are changed here, i.e. an extension from 30 days to 45 days for the granting of that consent, but if the Ministry or the Autonomous Province body does not agree to the general regulation plans within 45 days, the agreement will be deemed to be given. So it's the silence of the administration. We're making a big comment about this. We think it's dangerous, because there's no responsibility if that object is stuck in a drawer somewhere, so it lies for 45 days. It wouldn't be the first time something like this has happened. A number of problems may arise on the ground, so I think that this provision is necessary to delete so that the law can be applied properly. It is in everyone's interest that both plans and procedures are clearly defined, so that buildings do not fall tomorrow, as has been happening in Belgrade and in some other municipalities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52107	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is something like this and this is in some way the continuity of the principled views of the SRS since 2009, when we asked, Mr Minister, that the government and the competent second-degree authorities do not release themselves from obligations and responsibilities to give consent to certain planning documents, it does not matter what level, which character and order. It seems to me that this is exactly the kind of flexible attitude you've given for the right of the administration to remain silent and to be irresponsible. You see, in the presentation of this law, you said that here you were trying to introduce efficiency, both time, both financially and otherwise. The Serbian Radical Party considers efficiency to be poor and not good. Practice has been like this before. It seems to us that the state must not be indemnity in the planning procedures, and its role must not be as it will be, in principle, when it is given the possibility that after 45 days, if consent to a plan document is not granted, that document will be accepted. We were in the principle debate when the law was passed and later in the debate on changes said that in these planning documents, it doesn't matter what level and order, different interests are built in. You're aware of that, Mr. Minister, you know very well, you're in a situation on the ground. It seems to me that this is why the state must take a much bigger role and responsibility, at least when it comes to the planning and construction sector in Serbia. Serbia is in that sense, you said yourself, an abandoned state. Now he's trying to do something about it, but the job is empty. I cannot agree with the explanation where you said that local self-government must not suffer the adverse consequences of possible silence and slowness of the state administration. I may sound strange, but I think the state has a problem with local self-government. You are a witness, it seems to me that you have had a lot of opportunities and opportunities to make sure by traveling through Serbia that everything is being built on, what all individuals in local self-government do and how they behave, what sick financial and political interests are being built on or because of them change the planning documents. The Serbian Radical Party knows that state interventionism must have limits and borders, but when planning and building is at stake, when it comes to the treatment of space in Serbia, which is objectively abandoned, indeed, not the state, the ministry, and then those second-degree bodies must not deny themselves the obligation to grant consent to the planning documents. We'll talk later, we've also submitted amendments concerning the Committee on Plans... We really believe that the quality of the planning has been questioned by the flexibility you're introducing through the fact that 45 days... In the previous law, it was 30 days, and now you've extended that deadline to 45 days. If you have extended the time limit to 45 days, then show you will and you want to control what is happening in Serbia, how local self-governments, or those who produce planning documents, treat space. You don't have a more important job right now. There can be no sustainable development in Serbia if the basis or foundation, and these are planned documents, does not set it right. Everything else will be just a farce and a distraction of the citizens. Come on, citizens, we don't have the right to distract them either, we fool ourselves that all of this makes sense. You must be very clear, Mr. Minister, to show an example of responsibility. It explains: “... because it is responsible for the adoption of planning documents on the bodies which adopt them in accordance with the Constitution and the law. “ Here the term of responsibility is so devalued, for that category everyone reaches; not specifically in this law, but in this home and politics in Serbia at all. You know, responsibility comes to all – we take responsibility, we take responsibility, and chaos metastases. Therefore, we invite you to find a way, time and energy and to force people below you to deal with these things, to control how space is defined in Serbia today and what it will look like tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52109	Thank you. Minister, here you go. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52110	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that, apparently, these papers are flying around us, you haven't had a chance to see that by accepting one amendment from the MP, that's Bojana Stanojevic, that's exactly what we've solved. So the silence of the administration will exist exclusively when it comes to pe-ge-ers (PGRs), because there are many of them. As for spatial plans and some urban plans, the silence of the administration will not exist, and from 45 days we cut to 30 days. There's one thing I have to say that's none of your business, but it's public concern. In the sector dealing with this huge business, given that almost all local self-governments are currently adopting spatial urban plans, for three people. We can't cover all of Serbia with three people within 30 days. It's just like that, and whoever's sitting here would have a similar problem because they are. We can't just for every general regulation plan to give consent, but as far as these things are concerned, there won't be a silence of the administration. When we check and see if it's consistent with the spatial plan, with the higher order plan, we'll give those consent, no matter what happens, these deadlines will probably be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52111	Mr. Stevanovic, you can speak within the time of the authorised representative, and Mrs. Radeta also reported. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52112	Article 33 is a fundamentally bad member, all of it. Our basic objection to this article is that it does not recognise the actual state of affairs. So, how do you plan to complete the legalization of the facilities next to the first position of this member? That's one of the main problems. Of course, this amendment by counterpart Martinovic is also in the same sense as that of our principled position not to recognise the practical state, Mr Dulic, if the documents of the spatial and urban plan, as he says, must be harmonised so that the document of the narrow area must be in line with the document of the wider area. That should seem logical and normal, but we have a fact that there are 100,000 objects without a building permit. That fact must also be recognized in law. When it comes to attitude 6, whose removal we have suggested, among other things, you say that local self-government must not suffer the adverse consequences of any silence or slowness of the state administration. And are citizens allowed to suffer the slowness and silence of local self-government? That's the main problem. You're complaining to us now. This explanation of why our amendment isn't accepted looks like you're complaining to us that there's something you can't do. When you explain to your colleague Stevanovic why the amendment has not been accepted, you complain even more, you say you with three employees in that department can't solve the problem. Well, you hire 33. When we talk about public spending and about the state spending more than it should on the state administration, we don't think it should be at the expense of effective work. How many in other parts of your ministry or in some other ministry, anyway, and only in agencies how many people you have who have nothing to do and who don't have to work. Re-distribute. Give them where they need more men, let them be more, because this is really a problem that the state finally needs to solve. You know, eleven years, since Shumartz, since 2003, when Schumarac was the first Law on Planning and Construction... Should we remind you of that? Some November was the deadline when the application was due, so we talked about it – people, this has nothing to do with the brain, this law can't solve it. That's when you made people make demands just to pay huge taxes, and then it came to the budget that I don't know how many million just on behalf of the citizens who filed legalisation demands. What's done? It's nothing, not one percent of the facilities are legalized. Now you're talking again about harmonising higher and lower plans, not acknowledging the actual state of affairs. So the basic thing is that you have to admit the actual state. Basically, you have to accept that all objects must be legalized. When I say everyone, of course, if a facility in such a place is built that it's impossible, if it's on an infrastructure facility, etc., such an object cannot be legalized, but it's very small. As long as you don't regulate it by law, that official in the municipality will say -- here, he's a member of a commission that legalizes and he's going to say this can't be legalized because this plan doesn't fit the plan that's above that. I don't know what you don't understand, Minister. Simply, you have to accept the fact that there are illegally built objects, or objects without a building permit. If you truly want to get legalized, and if you truly want the community officials not to take the money for it, not to give more than it costs to legalize, you have to law-abid these people to commit that they have to do their job. They need local self-government to do their job. It's not an excuse that you don't have enough men to control them. It's no excuse for saying that local self-government can't suffer adverse consequences because the Ministry doesn't have enough people. What adverse consequences can local self-government have in the first place? Only citizens suffer the adverse consequences. Of course, citizens are first instance local self-government, you're just next. I'd really like the minister to say what he doesn't understand, so let's talk about this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52113	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52114	I must admit, no matter what you may be familiar with this area, your concentration has dropped a little or you haven't read these things properly. We're talking about the same thing right now. So MP Stevanovic proposed an amendment, or defended Mr Martinovic's amendment. Just in the clarification, I said that we accepted that suggestion, though, not through the amendment as formulated by MP Martinovic, but through an amendment that defined MP Bojana Stanojevic. But the goal we wanted to achieve was achieved. The other thing, I see you like to talk about legalization, but I have to tell you one thing - you obviously didn't read those members of the law. So the plan base is no longer the basis for legalization. Nothing to do with the compliance of seniors with the lower plans will have anything to do with legalization. No more plans, unfortunately. It was a very difficult decision we had to make. We basically put urbanism aside when it comes to the legalization of illegally built objects. That's gonna cut thousands and thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases. So now you're explaining to me why it has to be done, and I want to tell you that we've already done it and put it into law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52115	Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52116	I'm afraid, Minister, your concentration has dropped. Tell us what you're saying to local self-government. Show the citizens of Serbia how much you really have done from what you promise and what you say. Explain to us, MPs, why you prefer Bojana Stanojevic, rather than Aleksandar Martinovic. How come you didn't accept the amendment of your colleague Martinovic, and Mrs Stanojevic did, and that somehow you arranged him with her? Mr. Minister, you haven't convinced us what you're saying, and worse yet, you haven't convinced the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you're saying is that there are no legalization plans, that this is now going to break off and get legalized, is simply denying this article 33, especially his first position denies what you're saying, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52117	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. It's the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52118	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has accepted the amendments of the LDP MPs to Articles 32, 62 and 49. In this way, the law will be well improved, given that we from the Liberal Democratic Party have been guided by certain principles in construction, which are also necessary for this devastated business branch. These principles are, above all, efficiency, rationality and integrity. These principles are reflected in all our amendments that have been proposed to improve legal solutions in the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction. This amendment to Article 19 provides that the title above Articles 34 and 34 are to be changed. The legal text provides for both title and article 34 to be deleted. Our proposal is to mark as the title "The mandatory delivery of the contribution of the plan document" and that Article 34 reads: "The order responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the catastra shall be submitted to the regulatory and nivelation solution of the streets and public areas with the elements for marking on the geodetic background. “ Our argument is that unless there is an obligation to deliver these documents in this way, the work of the Catastrian services will continue to show enormous problems and inability to act effectively. Unfortunately, we did not find any positive co-operation by the proposings, who rejected this amendment with a reason that the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and catastra only provides the contribution of the regulatory and nivelation solution of the street in case the cadastre is marked on the geodetic basis according to the contribution indicated in the tabled amendment. Thus, it is simply a cadastre that is a single obligation that would significantly improve efficiency in solving certain problems under this Law on Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52119	Thank you. You have received your resignation, honourable MPs, Elizabeth Paunovic, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation of the case under Article 88(2) of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to the MP, Elizabeth Paunovic, elected on the election list ZES - Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're moving on to work. The minister wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52120	I suggest that the Government accept this amendment. If this is not possible, I suggest that the National Assembly be made a positive statement on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52121	Thank you. So, the proposaler's representative accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52122	Thank you, Madam President. To agree that we are all highly concentrated, but Mr. Dulic is aware that the situation is changing from minute to minute. We just heard that the Assembly will come forward on this, and now we have a report from the Committee that the amendment has been accepted and that it has become an integral part of the text, the one just now. My intention was just to speed up the work of the Assembly, not to hold back and explain something already regulated by the amendments. It shows that when a doctor and a lawyer agree, then the building in this country will flourish. This Article 23... So the amendments we submitted to Articles 23 and 24 are identical and they relate to the definition of the central register of planning documents. In fact, so far it has been done by the Republic Geodetic Institute, and now amendments and additions to this law provide for the Ministry to do so. The deadline for entry into force and the establishment of this register has been one year since the entry into force of the law. I remind you, the law was passed 18 months ago. These changes and additions, unfortunately, are not defined by that member as to what is being done with the existing register, whether it exists at all, in what way it is transferred to the Ministry, within what time. I think that's what it takes to explain to us, Mr. Minister, that we know if it's being run in two places, whether it's just going to be within your ministry, just so people can plan and know what they're going to do and who they're going to address. The law really didn't define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52123	Minister Dulic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52124	The creation of a sublegislative act is foreseen, i.e. a regulation to which all this will be worked out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52125	For the sake of the public, if the proposing representative accepts the amendment at the session, and it has not been discussed on the Legislative Committee, we must declare ourselves in the voting day. Yeah, simple, that's the case. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52126	Thank you. Well, here, it's about the same story as the last one, the amendment... The power's up. So, the story is similar to that of the recent amendment. We have requested that paragraphs 2 and 3 be deleted in this Article 23, as we felt that, since the register was not established within the previous legal period, the ministry would have to be in charge within a new period of one year. It is also unacceptable to accept the illogical explanation that has come from the promoter that the amendment is not accepted, given that the register of planning documents has not been established. Now, I'm just going to take a few steps back and remind you, and I'm sure you'll remember that, too, that it was actually the central register and it was your idea, right, that it was foreseen by law. Yes, it is. It is also a fact that registers have been established from some of the less important areas, and here, an extremely important area, is not there, especially when it comes to the fact that the register, which should contain a record of the coverage of the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia with the planned documents, should be found so. I'm really interested in why you gave up on this, that is, how will the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Urbanism do a better job than it would have done in this way?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52127	Thank you. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52128	I was already talking about the previous member we submitted, and subsequently this amendment is also addressed. The minister explained that sublaws would regulate the matter. I would like to express my satisfaction once again with the adoption of the DSS amendments, which is somewhat corrected by this law, and I am sure that we will also discuss very quickly new changes and additions, given that the concept is wrong and that this will not remove problems, particularly in local self-government and then at other levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52129	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52130	This can continue on that story from a moment ago, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we criticised efficiency at the expense of quality. The minister said they had a big problem with the fact that the work we were talking about only three people in the ministry are doing. That is indeed a problem, but it only confirms the Serbian Radical Party's view that the political concept run by the government really does not recognise what national interests are. I'm afraid that this new reconstructed government will succeed, Mr. Minister, to understand you, to change the position in the sector in which you, I say, ministry. The new energy your prime minister or head in the government has promised us is not really going to solve this problem. We've said a hundred times, this country has money to pay at an annual level of 70 million dinars for the Fiscal Council, but there's no money to hire people to do a job that is significant and from which citizens will benefit in particular on the ground and in life, which is what some of these people's life problems are going to solve. Instead of paying agencies, commissions, directorates, various advices, etc., it would be much smarter for this country to pay and finance people who will solve, I repeat, life problems. Now, you, on the one hand, laminate over the Ministry's fate, and on the other hand, now in the planning committees they're going to sit, say, people without a license. Why? Why is that? We're just interested. If we're looking for quality, if we're looking for something that's supposed to be good, if we're attaching meaning to something, why are people with licenses being removed from the planning committee? That's one thing, that means we're interested. It creates preconditions for the planning committees, which determine what will happen to space, to become mere administrative bodies. On the other hand, the possibility of a re-election is predicted. We don't think that's good. In the principle debate, we also said, I think we called the city administration in Subotica, someone's been a member of that planning committee for years, and now he has to be again, there's nothing else to do. This requires dynamics, requires changes, requires professions. It seems to us that this amendment of ours should be accepted, Mr. Minister, because of it the quality of the law and this area will not be questioned at all, it will be of more quality. You have no reason, I repeat, not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52131	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52132	Well, I'm really trying to run a quality debate, and I'm sorry that you obviously don't have, didn't we have time to distribute all the papers... You have no idea what this law will look like when the amendment that the government has accepted has just defined this area. So we accepted that all members of the commission must be licensed engineers, with one concern – if we limit their term of office to two mandates, we will have a problem in smaller areas, where we may have a problem now because there are no licensed engineers. You have to understand that we're building a general act, which is not only for big cities, where there are definitely licensed engineers, but also for small environments where it may be a problem to find licensed engineers who will be an integral part of the planning committee. This is about us seeing what reality is, we have a good cut of the situation. So from now on, the planning committee will be composed exclusively of licensed engineers. It was your suggestion, and we accepted it through the amendment, I think, of MP Ivan Jovanovic. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to limit maximum to two mandates because we would not have enough licensed engineers in many areas. So you have to look at it that way. In any case, I ask you, I don't know if it's the Secretariat of the National Assembly, whether it distributes all the material, most of the things and suggestions you've given in the debate in principle we've accepted through amendments, which may not be yours, may be from some other parliamentary group, but they've been formulated in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52133	The material is distributed; whether it's timely or not, I don't know, but it's divided. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic and Parliament MP Olena Papuga (addition with correction). The government accepted the amendment of MP Ivan Jovanovic, and did not accept the amendment, with a correction by MP Olena Papuga. The 28th amendment was jointly submitted by Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52134	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have proposed this amendment that the rule that the documentation cannot be subsequently requested be extended to the issue of a building permit, which is very important in order to prevent the lack of awareness in the work of the administration. In addition, we have suggested that the last position be complemented by the word "building", which is the attitude which deals with the issue of local permits, because the point of the problem is not only to upgrade existing traffic, but to build new ones, and the efficiency of local self-government will be seen precisely in the flexibility of this standard in a situation where the urban environment is poorly decorated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52135	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 28th amendment. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52136	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are at the head of a ministry where there are major problems. They have particularly started to be born and grown since 2000, beginning with Dragoslav Šumarac and beyond; they also existed during the capital ministry. It is probably not all the problems in this area that you and Mrs. Damnjanović Petrovic are to blame, but it seems to me that you are not getting into solving these problems with enough energy, energy, well, I would say, and expertise. When it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, there is a need to engage, but truly, top experts in the field of architecture, buildings, geodesy engineers, graduate lawyers, in order to make a good law. On the condition that you accept all amendments submitted by the MPs, you cannot remove the numerous mistakes that occurred when this law was passed that entered into force on 11 September 2009. However, there is another concern, if you know there will be more reconstructions of this government – that the ministry "snaps" you more. Then there won't be a theoretical chance that you can solve the problems that are accumulated in this area. So, before you are the legalization, conversion, launch of the construction sector. There is another very serious problem, which is "Let's Clean Serbia". I don't know if you were after the November floods in the areas of Bajina Basta, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik and Loznica? I think that, with the involvement of a man, with your ministry engaged in full capacity, it should take twenty years for him to get back to the state he was in before, even though it wasn't particularly good before; now, after the flood, when the water retreated, it was a catastrophic situation. They add mining to you, and there's no theoretical way that you can solve these problems. I'm talking about an amendment to Article 28. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, which refers to Article 54 of the basic law. I absolutely wouldn't mind if a colleague named Bojana Stanojevic signed under my amendment so that you would accept the amendment. She's from Vranjska Banja, though, and I'm from Love. Love is also a beautiful town. Well, it could be a motive for you to accept that amendment. What's this about? In Article 54 earlier, it stated: “Before applying for a local authorisation, a building plot shall be formed, in accordance with this law, except in the cases provided for in Article 69... “ etc., and some attitudes. You are now suggesting that this position of article 54 be deleted and you say: “The local permit is issued for a cadastral plot that meets the conditions for the building plot, which is determined by the authority responsible for issuing the local authorisation... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” It's not good to put this problem this way. I think the cause of corruption in the construction licenses sector is largely the fact that there are some things that have not been resolved systematically. It seems to me that corruption is subject to many, of those inspectors who visit construction facilities to those employees in your ministry who should bring and issue other permits. Then that's where everyone's got everything. When everyone knows what the others are doing, there's no way to obey the law. In fact, you get the impression that it's not your goal, but that the goal is to remain a vague, confusing situation, so that a certain number of building inspectors, including those involved in your ministry, can, in addition to good, solid salaries, take more. If there's a family facility in mind, I'm talking about it, not business facilities, right once in my life, in order to solve the housing issue, then our citizens need to get the most out of the way. No, you don't, you don't even show a good will to do it. In particular, for these amendments and additions to the Law, we have suggested that this position of the 8th Article 28 be deleted and that the previous solution be maintained, because, before issuing the local permits, unique building plots should be formed. If no single building plots are formed prior to the issue of a local permit, it is likely that it will be designed and later built, the object of which is situated on several cadastrian plots, and such an object cannot be entered into a catastrian operat, yet it is necessary to make a preparation. The preparation procedure is not expensive, it is very simple and efficient. I think it's an incomparable solution to what you're offering in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52137	Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have asked, Mr Minister, for a new position to be placed in this article – that for all the plans for areas of special purpose, the Government is required to do implementation programmes within a year. This argument is very interesting: “Amendment is not accepted because it is more comprehensive that the deadlines for the adoption of the implementation programme are determined, i.e. from the date of entry into force of the relevant planning document, rather than the law. ” We agree with that. So, I totally agree, but I'm asking you now: for the special purpose planning documents, who's going to bring the implementation program, and how is this defined by this law? In fact, this law rules out the government's obligation to bring implementation programmes for the planning documents for areas of special purpose. I'll just remind you that these are protected goods. These are good things that are of national importance to the Republic of Serbia. I come from a municipality that has one protected good, and as a minister, you've had a chance to get to know what crime is going on up there, what abuses are happening there, and not just by the citizens, even they're the most banignant in the whole story. Those who are obliged, under these laws, to implement and protect national interest, both the Republic of Serbia and local self-government and protected goods, they promote crime, they promote lawlessness, they stimulate illegal construction. Be careful, and after the adoption of these laws, whatever we think of them, those who need to implement them, in accordance with the law, the legalisation process and the adoption of defined planning documents and strategic interests, are as local officials, as someone representing a state at that local level, promoters of lawlessness, promoters of the collapse of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia in one area. So we ask the question why has the government decided not to bring implementation programmes precisely for these documents, documents that are of national importance and represent the national interest of the Republic of Serbia? For SRS number one are national interests. If anything has a national character, protected well, it's a national interest. Indeed there is, multiple: economic, demographic, cultural, touristic and each other. Let's not tell a story about planning, how it's defined and what it's done, but we really don't get it. Then all you're telling us is that these programs need to be brought in, deadlines to be established in relation to the plan document, and you've ruled out the possibility or obligation of the government to bring in the implementation program. I will remind you only, we asked in the process of adopting the first version of this law in 2009 to provide in the law that implementation programmes are an integral part of the planning documents, not that implementation programmes are being implemented later. That's what we asked of you, and you didn't accept it as a legislator. You had your concept; whether it's good or not, it'll confirm time. What experience do you have on the ground? Here, we are coming into a situation today to change the law, to avoid the obligation to make implementation programmes in very subtle places, i.e. protected goods of national interest. We're interested in why that is? We think you could accept this at least because of those plans that have been made in the meantime and for which someone, or the government in particular, will find an alibi for them not to bring in a program of implementation for them in this vacuum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52139	Mr. Stevanović, what time? So, from the time of the authorized representative. Thank you very much. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is Mrs. Vice President Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52140	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed this amendment one way to address the problem of a kind of preparation, namely the merger of several parcels. We have provided for the possibility that, with the requirement laid down in Article 1, the conditions for correcting the borders of cadastrian parcels and the geodetic marking project are provided. The aim was to immediately start bodies dealing with this specific activity, which is to determine the conditions for correcting the borders of cadastrian parcels, as well as for geodetic marking of certain parcels, to include in this assessment whether or not the correction of the land limits is possible and whether a geodetic marking project is possible. In the event that these conditions are not obtained, it would not be possible to submit that claim to the owner. In this way, the owner would be informed at the beginning that it is unnecessary to expose himself to costs, since it is impossible to make a certain correction. In this way, we would reduce the burden of the body dealing with the correction of the borders of these cadastrian parcels, and we would also disburse the home budgets of the owner of the parcels which would be unnecessarily exposed to costs because they would not be able to achieve the objective they had foreseen when they applied for the correction of the parcel limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52141	Thank you. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Zoran Babic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52142	I thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 71. The Law on Planning and Construction defines the establishment of a Republic spatial planning agency. By Article 37 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, you have authorised the Agency to be the holder of the business of creating spatial plans from the domain of the Republic of Serbia. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that the existence of the Spatial Planning Agency is completely unnecessary. We have translated that opinion into an amendment requesting the removal of Article 71. The law on planning and construction, and in this way we are looking for the abolition of the Spatial Planning Agency. According to the Law on Public Agencys, public agencies are, as a rule, established to carry out professional and development activities and can possibly carry out public administration tasks, only in case these jobs can be better and more effective than the Oran of the State Administration. In this case, as you provided for by this bill, the Spatial Planning Agency only performs the tasks that only the Ministry should perform, while other legal and physical persons are engaged in professional affairs, at least that is how you provided for in Article 79. The Law on Planning and Construction, which states: “In order to carry out certain professional activities under its jurisdiction, the Agency employs other legal and natural persons, in accordance with the law. ” What, then, is this Space Planning Agency going to serve, is it going to be a mediator between the Ministry and the legal and physical persons you're going to hire to do professional work? I believe that this agency is just another case of unnecessary establishment of public agencies to carry out the tasks of the ministries, which also increases administration and budget expenditures. The Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, will refer our draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Agencys in the assembly procedure, as the practice of forming public agencies is totally out of control. The total number of public agencies is unknown even to the very government of the Republic of Serbia. The costs of these agencies and the obligations imposed on citizens and businesses are increasing, which seriously increases public expenditure. The total number of employees in these public agencies is unknown, but it is estimated to be several thousand people, mostly admitted by party membership, and not by expertise. Government public agencies are receiving employees in a working relationship without any public competition. When we multiply these several thousand employees in public agencies with their gross salaries, thus adding to the receiving of part-time associates and board members, business costs and travel expenses, we will come up with a bill issued by the former finance minister, to spend over a billion euros annually through public agencies in Serbia, without any control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You will admit that such a practice could not withstand a much richer and more developed country than Serbia. In accordance with the SNS's view that surplus agencies should be shut down, disbanded, and the business of others under control, I suggest you adopt this amendment and abolish the Spatial Planning Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52143	Thank you. The 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52144	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, this is a very important law, which will have implications during the coming period. He's had them so far, but unfortunately, the state hasn't expressed any good will to solve the problems in space, and that's why we have chaos in construction, we have problems in normal functioning in this area. My amendment refers to a member of the 94th Old Law, i.e. 40th Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. It is important here to highlight the provisions of Article 93 and not knowing the essence of Article 93, and then the article of 94 is nakarada, as it is here, and especially this change, which I will talk about later. The key member is Article 93, which refers to the construction land. All provisions until provision four can go into practice, however, the provision of Article 4 is essential. In the debate on the principle of this law, we pointed to this and asked the Ministry to take another look at Article 4. In practice, local self-government does not apply attitude 4; the Ministry does not control. We have arbitraryness with local self-government, which is allowed by the Ministry, and that's why we have problems with legalization in practice. The ministry made a mistake the moment it failed to define the construction land. You can't do it without definition. Then all elements should be elaborated, according to the given definition. When we talk about the construction land arrangement, every local self-government in the contract with the investor must state everything that is important, which is inherently related to the construction of municipal infrastructure. Gentlemen of the Ministry, no local self-government defines the scope and structure, the deadlines for performing works, and that is the essence. It's not a dispute, from the investor's point of view, how much will it be, but -- how much do I get for it? It's a bond relationship. For years, the Serbian Radical Party has indicated your obligation to respect the Law on Liabilities, because it is a two-sided legal work from which the obligation of local self-government to build what is defined by the regulations of local self-government itself, with deadlines, with dynamics and with the structure of municipal order. Without that, there's no contract, there's no fee. That's why investors don't pay you, that's why we don't have legalization. Mrs. Damnjanović Petrovic, you're a lawyer at the ministry, you confirmed that when you corrected the minister and said there was no illegal legalisation, that the minister was wrong, and you're right. But you can't do that, and here you have to show the minister, he's a different profession, he doesn't understand, but you have to understand. What we're telling you is that you're breaking the law and allowing local self-government to violate the law. It's a drastic violation of the law. You say - we failed to legalize in 2003, we will succeed in that law since 2009. Now you're making adjustments, etc. We're still here to discuss who knows how many times you've been legalizing and amending and supplementing this law or innovating this law, because you haven't realized the essential thing. You don't understand that, it's a problem, and you allow local self-government to do whatever it wants. Investors are left to fate in relations with local self-government, because the provisions of this law are written as well. Now, with what you've done with this provision of Article 40(3), God help you, and investors. You say this: “The persons of the 1st position of this member who owns the building land on which the planned construction of municipal infrastructure is planned under the current document can be recognised as the market value of the land as the actual cost of municipal land equipment.” Well, you've "mixed pots" here. How can you mix the value of building land, which must be shown in some monetary units, with real cost of municipal equipment? You can't mix that up. It's two separate procedures. These are two separate phenomena that need to be defined in particular and cannot be "smacked" as you have stated. What happens when local self-government accepts such a provision and compensates for the value of construction land with municipal infrastructure? Who's going to do the communal infrastructure and with what resources? The aim and purpose is to get funds from investors for construction, construction land by structure and by size as envisaged by the plan. If you let it be estimated by local self-government, how did you define here, to accept market value, how do we get to market value? What does the market value of 2008 mean compared to 2010 and what will it be in 2012? What are we going to get in terms of the construction you've defined in article 93? We won't get anything, you'll make up for it, which you haven't defined anywhere in the terms of this law. You've mixed pots, you've made out of three or four laws, you've "broken" everything into one law, it's completely inapplicable. That's why we're telling you to pull this off on time. As far as building land is concerned, it must be a special law, public property law must be a special law, the law on legalization must be a lex speciality law, to define the terms, not to impose provisions that are incompatible with the provisions of this law. Legalisation will not take place, implementation of this law will not be carried out, as has not been carried out under previous laws either. Pull this back on time, don't put investors in an even more unfavourable position. A little further on what the minister was stressing here that there were no employees in the ministry. Don't talk about such things, I think it's funny and tragic to say that we don't have enough workers in the state administration and that we can't respect deadlines because we don't have them. The General Administrative Procedure Act is a system law, which primarily you in the Ministry must respect. Neither you respect him nor respects the local self-government. Your legal requirements are in local self-government for ten, twelve, fifteen, five years. The provisions of the law are clear – the general deadline is 30 days and the extended period is another 30 days, 60 days, the end of the administrative procedure, it is suspended, either being resolved positively or negatively, etc. You must apply the provisions of this system law. You hereby inaugurate some deadlines, but not deadlines defined by the General Administrative Procedure Act. You do nothing to affect local self-government that it respects those deadlines, etc., etc., we will later. Drag this law, you have enough ten-year experience in non-application and infringing certain provisions and inability to implement all that you have planned with this law. Take it back, 'cause this is already a little embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52145	Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52146	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41, which reads: Article 1 in this article should be deleted for several reasons. Item 1 reads: "The alienation or lease of construction land under the position of the 1st member, when the owner of the building land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia, is carried out by the Republic of Serbia, or by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province when it owns the building land in the public property of the Autonomous Province", which, in our view and in the light of this amendment, does not exist. The law on public property... As the predecessor, Milorad Buhha, said, should be framed specifically by law. We believe that your coalition partner, who is with you in the coalition and here in the republic and in the province parliament, has long been asking for autonomous provinces and local self-government to return to management, i.e. to make the autonomous province and local self-government manage and dispose of building land. According to the SRS program... If you had applied it and accepted it as such, everything would have been different and it would have been easier to implement it because, according to the Serbian Radical Party programme, broad rights and autonomy should be given to local self-government. There's a lot of things to be solved. You yourself are coming into collegiate with the arguments you have given on this amendment that many things as they are under the Constitution, according to the Law on Public Property, that local self-government in the Constitution in Article 86... The provisions of Article 183. The constitution is prescribed to govern autonomous provinces, and the Law on Planning and Construction is prescribed that the right of property on building land in public property has a Republic of Serbia. So it is clear and loud that only the Republic of Serbia can alienate public property. That's why this amendment was submitted, so that item 1 could be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52147	The 41st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 41st amendment. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the moment the Law on Planning and Construction came into force in September 2009, there have been conflicting views on the quality of the text itself, whether or not it is applicable to its effects in practice. On the one hand, from the ministry that worked on this law and from most of the government, we have heard more than once that this system law was introduced or order would be introduced in the area of urbanism and construction, which, however, we listened to in 2003 when the previous law on planning and construction was passed, but was brought in the time of the major economic crisis. On the other hand, from a large part of the expert public, above all those who on the ground, in practice should be managed by this law in carrying out jobs for citizens, businesses, etc., we hear that law enforcement is practically impossible because it is very bad, that it has stopped investments in Serbia, which were otherwise one of the declared objectives of adopting the Law on Planning and Construction. In any case, nothing is black or white, but if the law were great today, we wouldn't be discussing amendments to the law in as many as 90 members. And what's certainly bad is the fact that the law with many supporting sublegal acts did not predict the consequences it would produce in depth, which led to a number of problems, so we tried to remove some shortcomings with amendments. Thus, the amendment to Article 41 reads - in the present position of 8 which becomes the position of Article 9 96. The law, at the end of the first sentence after the words "between the owners of building land in public property", adds the words "with the consent of the government". With regard to the sale or lease of real estate in public property at prices below market prices or free of charge, we consider that such availability of public property requires the consent of the Government in each individual case. From the proposal's explanation why this amendment has not been accepted, it appears that the amendment could have been accepted, but it has been said that this issue will be drawn closer through the sublegal act. We think it was better to accept this amendment and to regulate this in this way. I'm going to use a few more minutes of Parliament time to point out some ideas of people in the profession that concern members who are subject to amendments to the law, but for certain reasons we haven't responded to the amendments. Suggestions are extremely well-intentioned, present problems in practice. If nothing else, until the next amendments to the Law may be given from the Ministry an interpretation or explanation of the people working on these jobs, so we did something useful again. In Article 46. The draft law amending and supplementing, with regard to Article 101 of the Law, in the third paragraph, requires to define what needs to be delivered on request, therefore, evidence that those who have submitted and holders of the right to use on building land. In Article 63. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, relating to Article 144. The law had to be clearly established that an act of the building competent authority was not necessary to set up air conditioning on the façade of the facility. In Article 80, it was necessary to define how to legalise an economic facility and to harmonise what is in the Regulation on criteria for determining compensation in legalisation procedures – that the technical report on the state of the facility, installation, infrastructure network and external arrangement for the person holding a personal licence, which has already been implemented in the application of the law. In Article 81. The draft law on amendments and additions, and with regard to Article 190 of that Law, it is necessary to define who makes the sketch, therefore, the person who fulfils the conditions for the responsible designer or the responsible contractor, in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Finally, it is certain that solutions under this system law should be a practical incentive to build, which can lead to a more comprehensive development of our country. It concerns the fact that in the previous two years Serbia has fallen by the speed of issuing building permits from 171 to 178th place, from 181 countries, as well as the fact that no one is building anything anymore. The reasons of the Ministry, as far as this ranking is concerned, that the methodology, i.e. the cost of issuing construction permits, which includes compensation for the construction land, the number and duration of the procedure, can be used and the excuse is, so to speak, for internal use, but how do you think foreign investors react when they come up with this kind of analysis? It's exactly something that should have been removed by this law. So let's change things that cause our country's problems to move forward, attract the necessary investments, because of our citizens and their future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52149	Thank you. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 41. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has not accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. National MP Maja Lausevic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52150	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. My colleagues and colleagues, this amendment removes one inaccuracy, i.e. injustice, the difference between two groups of investors: those who have borrowed land and those who have received land on use, because the initial changes of Article 101 proposed to delete the position 3, which reads: ‘Employors or owners of specific physical parts of the facility built on building land for which the lease contract has been concluded to build on a period of over 50 years, determines the right of property on building land, i.e. the right of property on building land relative to the area of specific physical parts of which they own, without compensation. “ We have such a situation, when it comes to the right to use land, that land can be obtained without compensation. We believe that there is no difference between these two groups of investors, especially those who have leased at market prices, won some kind of tender, paid off the lease in advance for the whole period; we think they should get land without compensation, as those who, under other conditions, often and not marketable, get the right to use. Since you accepted the amendment of colleague Lausevic, who says the same, I am in principle satisfied, I am not going into the debate why; Mr Stevanović said earlier that you accepted Mrs Stanojevic's amendment rather than Mr Martinovic's, because she is more beautiful. And Maja Lausevic is prettier than I am, but let's next time, if we have similar amendments, the criteria will at least be who tabled the amendment first. Well, since I submitted the amendment at 9.55 a.m., March 2nd, and my colleague, Lausevic, also on March 2nd, at 9.45, ten minutes earlier, it's fine to accept her amendment. It is important that this injustice be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52151	Thank you. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52152	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is one of the key amendments, which confirms our initial position that the Law on Planning and Construction could in no way introduce the resolution of a property reform such as a systemic shift in relation to social property on building land. The key words in this amendment are "in official duty". We propose, in the position of the 3rd member, that, when entering the right of property, which is exercised by the authority responsible for the conduct of the activities of keeping records of immovable property and rights on them, this is done not on the request of those persons, but on official duty. The explanation we received from the promoters why this amendment is not adopted is as follows: "Amendment is not accepted since the authority responsible for matters of national diameter and cadastre, in addition to regular activities in establishing a single record of immovableity in the Republic of Serbia, has no capacity to perform as a regular business under official duty and this type of enrolment. “ The proposer considers that the proposed amendment should be accepted for the reasons set out in the reasoning. Our argument followed by the amendment, in addition to already said, that this is a specific law, which deals with planning and construction, and that there is no room for this kind of property transformation that has been regulated by several members of the law in question, is: namely, the nationalisation of building land has been done by the competent authority in public books simply breaking its seal with the conclusion that the land in question has become the property of the state. Citizens were often unaware of the fact that they had lost property overnight. There is no reason not to correct the wrong done in the same way as it was done, by establishing a civil servant by official duty that the right to use on undeveloped building land has ceased and has passed into property rights, without compensation. This amendment actually simplifies procedures, avoids legal gaps and speeds up the conversion process. Therefore, if the cataster of immovableity has the capacity to operate on the demands of citizens, I do not see why it would not have the capacity to change that substance by a simple movement of feathers, therefore, by one seal, whether it is social property, state property or the private property of the one that has built the facility on that plot. On the one hand, the catastres would be relieved of their actions under strong requirements; therefore, the capacity in the immovableity cataster would be less burdened. On the other hand, citizens would be exempt from paying unnecessary fees, as well as from wasting time when collecting documentation to apply for that conversion. Therefore, the benefits would be great, the procedure would be simplified, and I think it would be of great benefit and for the very cataster of immovableity because the procedure would be much simpler.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52153	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52154	Thank you very much. By adopting the amendments to the Committee, we have resolved this issue. And we believe that the registration of the conversion of the right of use to property without compensation should go on official duty. It's a matter of catastra capacity. Until a single record of property is completed in Serbia, which is by the end of the year, it is not realistic. For this reason, we have adopted an amendment that says that the registration of property rights at the request of a person will be carried out by the authority responsible for the conduct of the property records and rights on them within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. At the end of this period, if there is a technical possibility of keeping an immovableity record, that is, the Authority will do so on official duty. So, from the day of entry into force, we have given another year to go according to the demands of the citizens. After one year from the date of entry into force of this law, this will be done on official duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52155	Thank you. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 46. The proposer accepted the amendment at a session of the same committee. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the People's Ensigned Maja Lausevic. National MP Maja Lausevic withdrew this amendment at a session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 48. At its meeting of the Committee on Construction and Urbanism, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52156	Mr Minister, in Article 49 of the proposal, re-add to the position of Article 104(4). The law is amended and it states: “The conversion of the right to use in the right of property under Article 1 shall take place upon request of the holder of the right of use. ” In the new position of Article 104(5), The law of the word “if they have paid in full the amount of the lease for the period on which the lease contract is held” is replaced by the words “with the compensation of the market value of that land, minus the amount of the revaluation of the lease paid”. Change the text of the new item 4 of Article 104. The law is proposed in order to comply with the Constitution and to remove the ambiguities it contains, in particular: the proposed text of this attitude requires that the user ceases to be entitled to use if, within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, no claim for conversion is submitted. First of all, it must be taken into account that citizens are not subscribed to the "Official Messenger" and are not in a position to study all the regulations in detail in order to learn that they must apply within 30 days in order not to lose already acquired land use rights. The passing of such a law would be a widespread legal violence and fraud and the mugging of citizens who acquired this right of use by law and paid at market prices. It shall be prescribed that the competent authority, under its official duty, determines the termination of the right to use, in which case no procedure shall be laid down that would allow the holder of the right of use to participate in the procedure and protect his rights, as well as the right to appeal, thereby openly violating the right to legal protection and the remedy guaranteed by Article 36. The Constitution and international conventions on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Deprivement of the right of use violates the right to property guaranteed by Article 58. The Constitution and international conventions, as the right to use property rights which forms part of a person's property, cannot be taken away except in the public interest and with fair compensation. However, the text of the proposal cannot establish that there is a public interest in such intensity in order to justify the confiscation of property rights, and no fair compensation for the seizing of property rights is prescribed. The provision confiscating the right to use already acquired has a feedback and the conditions laid down in Article 197 are not met. The Constitution for the adoption of rules with a feedback. It is prescribed to establish the right of property in favour of the unit of local self-government, but not to specify which unit of local self-government is involved. In accordance with Article 188 of the The constitution, units of local self-government are municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, so where municipalities are in the composition of cities, there is an indecisive problem to determine who will be the lucky winner of free building land, which will be expensively sold. Amendment 5 is proposed to ensure that property rights can only be acquired under the conditions of payment of the market price and thus protect public interest and equality of citizens. Mr. Minister, as sincere as we are in the attention we pay to this bill, the materialization of this law will be done in practice. I'm afraid he's rubbing his hands off the only construction mob. Fight as long as you can against her; when you can't, then the SNS will.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52157	The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Mr. Stevanović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52158	I'll just take a minute. Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, it was our idea to send this amendment a clear message, a political message and an SRS stance, and not, as explained, that, possibly by accepting this amendment, we would allow legal and physical persons from the former Yugoslavia to exercise the possibility or right of conversion without compensation. If so, they have been able to do so so far, because this is something new that is introduced into the law, and that right will eventually be able to accomplish with compensation. The Serbian Radical Party believes these are things that have a broader political background, however, are a major problem so that they can be resolved in one of the Law on Planning and Construction. We believe, Mr. Minister, that the government is obliged to be governed here by the principle of reciprocity. I will only remind you of the position and status of property and legal and natural persons in Croatia. I would like one single piece of evidence to be given to me by someone that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have such or similar rights and opportunities there. They may have regulations, they may have norms and members of some laws, but in practice and in reality, the situation is completely different. I'll just remind you of the fact that the Republic of Serbia, legal entities from the Republic of Serbia in Croatia, have several billion-euro assets. This property is also available by the Croatian privatisation agency, I don't know what they call it; they have it, they sell it. Serbs or other citizens who are here, who have their property there, have no option, neither similar nor approximate, although I repeat, such a thing may exist in norms and laws. I believe that as a Government, you are obliged to show the will and determination to respect the principle of reciprocity in relation to all states that have these problems and that this is done in a much more thorough and serious way, and not like this, to create and give them the opportunity through one member of the law, which, if you show a political weakness, can become very unpleasant to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52159	National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 51st amendment. The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52160	The Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment to Article 51, as well as the amendment to Article 48, deals, in fact, with the precise deadlines; it is clearly defined by a time period in which a certain right may be required and within what time period it is possible to achieve this right, in which way the state body undertakes to address certain requirements of the citizens. It is very important to introduce a certain order in the conduct of a state body towards citizens when it comes to such serious topics as certain requirements in terms of the planning arrangement of a segment in the construction, certain permits, the start of construction, the change of certain rights on building land and the like. That is why we felt that in the legal text these deadlines had to be precise and accurately marked. That we have had a certain kind of understanding for such a kind of legal solution also confirms the reasoning of the promoter. Although the amendment was in fact rejected, it is in some way determined by those deadlines and said that the conversion is fully acceptable, in terms of a certain period of time, and that such a proposal submitted by the Liberal Democratic Party, or its MPs, and how possible, and that the government will work on building certain sublegal acts which would be clearly marked by these deadlines. In addition to these priority deadlines, in this Article 108 of the Basic Law on Planning and Construction, it is very important that Article 103 clearly defines what is actually foreseen for building land, as a condition for certain benefits to be achieved on that land, whether there is a need to be a major activity as one of the conditions, or the purpose of the land determined by the plan. It is obvious that some compromise has been reached there because it is largely taken as a provision; it simply overlooks the fact that the purpose of the land is the subject of this law and, in particular, that Article 103. It is a little unclear why it is so insistent on this large-scale activity, when the plan document which sets out the purpose of land is still a priority; it should nevertheless determine all the conditions necessary to deal with the building land. Therefore, it is very important that this law finally specify a certain will of the legislator in terms of deadlines and the purpose of building land, which is now, in fact, changing its essence. In fact, it changes the state's attitude towards building land, which loses that quality, that is, the possibility of the state having its own building land, because the citizen, or the legal person, has only the right to use in relation to the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52161	National MP Milisav Petronijevic withdrew an amendment that he submitted to article 51. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 54. At its meeting of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, the Proposer has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Mr. Zoran Antic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52162	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the government's intention, as far as I can see, was good at first sight – a desire to allow the investor, if he already has a rightful solution, to continue building. I think it's essentially an unreal solution, that it brings in a lot of legal uncertainty and that in no way can a serious investor interfere with the construction of this member of the law. After this judicial solution, which, therefore, is not finally, you have a administrative dispute, which can last in our country even for up to three years In a second position you leave the investor to build on his own responsibility. Who today, if there was no final solution to construction, would enter such a huge investment and then be in a position to eventually lose a court dispute and to let everything he invested go to waste? I think that this solution, regardless of some good intention, is quite irrational, that it can only encourage a variety of abuses, that, no doubt, means one legal uncertainty, and of course, I think it's contrary to the government's commitment to fight corruption and crime. With these solutions, you can only encourage corruption, because, certainly, someone who has invested some money in an object will not choose the way and way to protect that investment. Therefore, we must respect the legal system of the state. In this case, we intervened with an amendment that requires that, instead of a judicial solution, we have a final solution. It's the only normal and the right way and the way, and that the administrative courts are slow to solve cases, that's another problem, that's already being solved by the Ministry of Justice, that's already the problem of judicial reform, and it can't be solved by such legal projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52163	Thank you. National MP Maja Lausevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. No one answered for the word. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52164	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in Article 60, or Article 140 of the basic law, in Section 2, where a building permit is said to cease to be valid if within five years of the date of eligibility of the solution issued by the building permit does not issue a valid permit, except for the facilities of Article 133 of this position, we have added – and for individual family facilities. There is something very interesting here, as the representatives of the promoters, namely how the government treats and treats whom as an unconscious investor. So, they say that the exemption of family housing would create the possibility that the facilities would be built in half, without facades and so on, thus continuing the practice of investor unconsciousness. The government's treatment and attitude towards unconscious investors are very interesting. In Serbia, where, as the government has almost told us, there are almost a million illegally built objects now being created, in a financial sense, such conditions that people can (and should) legalize and introduce legitimate flows; they are now taking a completely flexible stand, and that is fine. It's an interest and it's okay, but how can someone be considered an unconscious investor if his building permit expires? So he showed security and responsibility in the beginning, and joined building the facility according to the law. He can't be, in any way, an unconscious investor. We've run nothing but economic positions and economic opportunities in which the state is located, and every single person in it. We don't believe there'd be a lot of those who would be in a situation if after five years they didn't build an object until I said... at that stage to introduce him to get the used permission. If there were such opportunities, they would be people who fall into such a situation for some objective, economic reasons. We believe that the legislator, or legislator, could take these arguments as valid and show good faith. These are individual residential buildings, they're not legal entities that would invest and possibly be, as you say, unconscious, so that there's a large facility in the city center that's not sold, or it's not finished and it's a mockery; these are individual residential buildings. I think you could look and see through these people's fingers, because at the beginning they showed the will and determination to build their individual housing according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52165	The 60th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a People's MP... I'm sorry, Minister first, so you will, Mr. Babice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52166	Given that what Mr. Stevanovic was saying is almost the same idea as the next amendment, which was handed over by the Prosperity Group to Serbia, but it is more precise, we would accept the amendment to Article 60, which the advances submitted. Basically, it solves this problem that you've been talking about. So, when it comes to individual housing, the validity of a building permit is longer than five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52167	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52168	Mr Minister, for this acceptance of the amendments, I will thank you, not on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, but on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, indeed, because of the difficult financial situation in which they are, are not able to complete all these facilities. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52169	National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Maja Lausevic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52170	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is very important, given that it deals with deadlines. We have foreseen in the text of the amendment: "The Commission for Technical Review is obliged to form the competent authority within 30 days of the date of submission of the requests and, on a proposal from the investor of the facility, from the list of licensed institutions". The proposed supplement is very important, given that this procedure often takes a year and a half, because no solutions are made to form a commission. We think that it would be truly appropriate for such a solution to be introduced into the text of the law and in this way the Commission is obliged to resolve, within one appropriate time, the request of the citizen who requested, or legal person who requested a technical examination.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52171	The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word is Dr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52172	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 76. It refers to the addition of a new position 2 in Article 182. I'd read that line concerning the amendment. The proposal for this law states: “This article’s note contains all relevant data on the day, place and type of facility, as well as on the name of the investor or contractor, if known, and if not, the procedure will be against the unknown person. “ Our amendment proposes that the words “all relevant ” be deleted in this attitude. We believe that the presence of these words is "all relevant" absolutely unnecessary and that it can lead to ambiguity in interpretation. On the other hand, the General Administrative Procedure Act and other procedural laws do not know the term ‘relevant data’, so this term should not even stand in these specific laws. If we had read the sentence after eradicating these words, it would have read much more precisely: “The note from item 1 of this article contains information about the day, place and type of object... “ And so on, that I may not read any further. Practically, these two words are unnecessary. In response to the Government's reply, this argument is: "The amendment is not accepted, given that it is incorrect and that a legal solution is proposed in accordance with the provisions of the general administrative procedure. “ We claim that such expressions do not exist in these laws of general administrative procedure. Perhaps the explanation should have been better, he says – the amendment is not accurate. Well, if we have made it clear – the words "all relevant" are deleted, the reason for the refusal of amendments is absolutely inadequate, but it is written, here, to refuse the amendment. That is why we believe that by accepting this amendment at least in this technical sense this member of the law would sound better and be much more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52173	Thank you. The 78th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Avramović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52174	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we have Mrs. Saska Damnjanović, I assume she will be competent to respond to the minister, since he is not in the O.R., which is the purpose of this amendment. Assuming she was giving answers to these amendments, I'd be very interested in some answers, but the Rules of Procedure won't allow advisors or cabinet heads to speak. I'm going to have to turn to an empty bench or a deputy, who can't give me an answer. My amendment refers to the fact that a discount on the compensation for city building land is made possible for all citizens of Serbia, except for those of the citizens living in the first and extra zone. I would remind you that in 2009, the Belgrade City Assembly made a decision on zoning, which is completely unfair, that it made catastrophic mistakes in that zone with the ambition to build something, and that it put the unequal position of the citizens of Serbia living in the first zone compared to others. I'll remind you of article 19. The Constitution of Serbia, which states that "the guarantees of inalienable human and minority rights in the Constitution serve to preserve human dignity and to achieve full freedom and equality", underlines, Mrs. Saška Damnjanović - equality, "every individual in a fair, open and democratic society, based on the principle of rule of law". You gave me the answer here that everyone in front of the Constitution is equal, which I can't agree with. This amendment clearly defines that the Constitution should be privileged and not punish those living in the first or the A zone, the extra zone, whatever you want to call it, because they do not have the right to a discount that everyone, all other zones, both in Belgrade and across Serbia. I will remind you of the error made in 2009 by the decision on the zoning of the city of Belgrade and the error made in 2010 by the decision to amend and supplement the City Assembly Decision on the zoning of the city of Belgrade, more precisely from 29 December, where parts of the old Belgrade, the Old Town, Vračar, the Savawen, the areas of Čukarica, the New Belgrade, Zemun, and even Bezanija are placed in the zone. I will remind you that everyone, including you, Mrs Damnjanović, who worked in the Sava Venec municipality, knows very well what infrastructure is like on the Sava Venec municipality. I only refer to the Sava Veneto municipality as an example. Why as an example? Because the Law on property taxes put the Sava Venac municipality at risk, because the discount is being realized or the possibility of not paying taxes on land under the property and on the facility itself, in this law that is in the assembly procedure... Allow everyone over 10 acres to pay for it and not 10. And you know that the only surfaces of over 10 acres are exclusively on the Savaweave. By doing so, all who live on the Savawere punished. When you put this together, that we don't have the right to compensation for city building land, when you put together the tax that is planned, to whom is it worth living on the Savaweave, Vrakar, the Old Town and in these parts of Belgrade that I listed? With respect to some principle of social care, which you stated in the context of the amendments, I did not realize that you know the infrastructure of these central municipalities, I did not realize that what is listed as the zoning criteria, which are the market value of the facility and land, municipal equipment, public facilities, coverage of the planning documents, developmental location, quality of location and central parts of the city, the purpose of the facilities and other conditions... So the boundaries of the zone, I'm going to remind you, between the two municipalities are different, so the left side of the street is an extra zone, one, which is an example of the Dedinj's regulatory plan, which is also covered by this zone, and the right side is even the third zone. There is one illogicality that a healthy mind cannot understand, that part of Belgrade, such as the Small Hill on the Savaweave, the Fox River, which has no market, no store, no road, no drain, no water supply, frequent power shortages, and even no planning documentation, in an extra zone, is deprived of the right to discounts that everyone else has. I will also remind you that a change in the plan for the detailed regulation for Dedinje has been launched in the City Assembly and that a decision on zoning has been made on the basis of this plan. The question now arises, Mrs. Saška Damnjanović, that they all launched the legalisation process in 2003, when it was the second zone, and this decision was put into the first zone, and that the compensation for them was charged in fact, according to the regulation, for the first zone, although the process started in 2003, so, eight years ago... We now have the threat of both the Constitution and the citizens living on the Savawedding, and we should also pay attention to the facilities of small businesses, which are also threatened and not released from all of this. They pay huge taxes to the state, hire people, and are threatened in the worst possible way. Because of this, I have launched an initiative in the Sava Venac Municipality to establish a commission to compare the rights of citizens of the three municipalities, especially the Sava Venac municipality, with all other citizens in Belgrade and Serbia. However, the political decision is that the leaders of the municipality, representing the backbone of the former DOS, the Democratic Party and others, must not tell their mayor that they do not live in the middle of what they live in, because it is a decision of a higher legal act, more specifically the City Assembly. Because politics has contributed to the fact that some must not address others to improve the standard of living in all parts of Belgrade, not in certain parts, in order to favour what is in fact a smaller priority, and these are suburban parts of the city, and not centrally, we become the culprits that we were born where we are, that we inherited what we inherited and that we live where we live. I wouldn't go into any small details now, since I assume that this amendment of mine applies, so I've stated, that this rule and this discount apply to all objects in all zones. I totally don't see any economic loss and a reason to answer my amendment, that it's just so written that social categories would have the privilege. Do you think, Mrs. Damnjanovic, there are no social categories at the Savawedding, Vjerar, Old Town, Zemun, New Belgrade, Bezanija and all that has been made through the decision of the City Assembly? Do you think these people live in fairies, as planned for Tolstoyeva and Užička Street, where they live, say, perhaps Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic, where Mr. President lives, where Minister Sutanovac lives? Do you think all the citizens of the Savawedding live the lives of those individuals from that street, so they should share their destiny? Or do you think everyone's going to get free facilities, so when they get free facilities, at least let them pay their taxes? I remind you that these people are mostly land users of over ten acres of land, pay taxes on property, land and property, and that they are double taxed and do not have the right to discount, and that they are all under ten, and over ten are located only on the Savawedding. The users of the plot, not by their own free will, but because of the economic situation, were not able to preparate the land, because you know yourself that it costs 500 euros only on application and that professional persons, not physically, are not able to give themselves the privilege of living on land below ten acres, so that they can achieve a discount, means to stay alive on the Savawen. So I ask you to transfer the minister to accept this amendment, not economic damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget. You prevent local self-government from misusing the selection of citizens in the first and second order by inventing zoning and unfairly putting the criteria that adopting a plan document is a priority whether or not someone will be in the A zone, as if citizens are bringing a plan document. This is what units of local self-government do, with the agreement of the Belgrade City Assembly, for example, in Belgrade. I would remind you that the Belgrade City Statute has put the mayor of the Belgrade City Municipality in the status of the local community; all that is done is at the city level, not at the municipality level, especially when it comes to the setting of zones, taxes, the establishment of construction permits, up to 800 square meters, the municipality goes over the city. These are all criteria affecting the poor development of local self-government, especially in the city of Belgrade, because the statute is so, and this law allows people in downtown Belgrade to be forced to sell their facilities and go to live on the periphery, because they do not have such income that they can pay and comply with all the obligations imposed on them through the Property Tax Act, through the Law on Planning and Construction, through compensation for city building land. However, Mrs. Saska Damnjanovic, I will remind you of one more thing, of your friend, the president of the Sava Venac municipality, Tomislav Djordjevic, whom neither you nor I sympathise. He made a 30% discount with the Directorate for Construction and City Building Land and paid compensation for the construction of city building land of 85,000 euros; he is the privileged resident living in A zone and can afford it from fair work in the municipality and receiving 70,000 dinars as president of the Sava Venac municipality. So if we're all the presidents of the municipalities and if we have the opportunity to just pay 85,000 euros, with a 30% discount, because when you pay the entire sum, you have a discount... Who can pay for the entire sum today, the issue should be answered by the Organisational Crimes Administration, which will finally start to solve problems in Belgrade, especially with the presidents of municipalities, such as the Sava Wreacher, the Old Town and, I cannot skip, Rakovica, since one part of the Fox River belongs to Rakovica, and they are the third zone, although they are the right side of the street. In order to solve all these misunderstandings, I suggest you accept the amendment of the SRS, not to select the citizens in the first and second order of the zone, which none of them chose, to respect the provision when they went into the legalisation process, to end the process, therefore, in that area, and to let people live in downtown Belgrade, because they were born here and are not guilty of being where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52175	The word has Mrs. Radeta's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member seems to be the best example of what we talked about in the principle debate and otherwise, when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, this law cannot and must not be proposed by sitting in the office. You gentlemen can't see the real situation on the computer. In order to make such a law and that it really has an effect, it was necessary to go around the field, to see what the real situation is, and not just on the basis of the sound name of a piece, in particular, Belgrade, and certainly other cities, to bring such regulations. Why wasn't your criteria, like, a degree of luxury object, no matter where it is? Not only can the location and the very surface of the object be criteria for determining the extra zone, the first zone, as you predicted. If someone is building a house that basically has a hundred squares and works, say, ground floor, floor and attic because there are two adult children who already have formed families, and the facility is run by whoever owns it, because they couldn't work differently, then you should also make sure that you can't treat it the same way, when it comes to a reduction, as someone who for two or three family members has luxury villas that look like traps, etc. So you had to see what it really looked like. The very fact that someone has a house, a colleague Avramovic talked about Dedinj, or, for example, at Gardos in Zemun, does not give you the right to declare it a first zone. Have you ever been to the Gardosh, which is the beauty of Zemun, have you seen what houses are like, what streets are like there? Do you know that this part of Zemun doesn't have a sewer? When we Serbian radicals there were the authorities we managed to do the sewerage on Gaje’s street; believe it or not, if you know, it was the “dryest” center of Zemun, and they had no sewers! So there are a lot of elements that should have been kept in mind before you were identified for such a legal solution. What you say in your explanation is really interesting – that the reduction of the compensation for the planning of the building land does not apply to the extra zone and the first urban zone, whatever that means. "The reduction of compensation, as proposed by this law, applies only to persons who illegally built buildings, to a certain area, taking into account the number of members of the family household. “ Then you should give us an answer as to why someone with two or three family household members has a 500-600 square-square villa, mostly public figures, does not pay a fee 120%? Who can you even that with? You deceive Serbian citizens with this law. I asked last time, I ask today, because people who conclude contracts, who can't pay suddenly, like this president of the municipality that Avramovic spoke of, tens of thousands of euros, but can't pay 500 euros at a time... And you're deluding them by determining the possibility of a longer-term fee. I ask you again, if someone three and a half years ago concluded a contract with the Directorate and started paying off the amount of 380,000 dinars and if he had to pay another 17 wars, his first war was 4,300 dinars, now his war is 6,800 dinars, the rest is about 50,000 dinars, and if he continues to pay 17 wars per 6,800 dinars, even if it doesn't increase that amount further, he has to pay 115,600 dinars, can you explain that bill to the citizens of Serbia? The same bill awaits Serbian citizens when the law is applied. In your explanation, you've revealed to us what you're really thinking. This is really amazing. You say under what conditions is allowed to reduce the payment of legalisation fees, among other things: "... keeping in mind that persons who have been permanently addressing their own housing needs by building the facility, which is not disputed, but look further, "as if they do not have any other real estate in the territory of the unit of local self-government on which the object which is subject to legalisation is built. “ Is that normal? Does this mean that someone can have a villa on Dedinj, so they won't get a certain reduction, but at the same time they can have a villa in Earth Calvary, so they'll get a reduction there; or they can have one villa in Belgrade, and the other one on Zlatibor or Kopalnik, one will get a reduction, one won't get one for the other. How did you judge that? Does it make sense for you to assess and say that it only reduces that amount if you find that someone in that same municipality, the same local self-government unit doesn't have any other facility? Do you see the tycoons, the rich, who know how to become rich, who can abuse this law to have five fairies illegally built, where they will be able to exercise these rights because, especially in every municipality, they will exercise the right of reduction, regardless of whether they are in the first, extra zone, etc. So, here, this article is the best proof of how recklessly you've done this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52177	Thank you. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. People's MP Bojan Đuric came forward for the word. I'm sorry, Mr. Maric will go first. Here you go, Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52178	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party believes that families with four members, if they have an apartment or a house of up to 100 square metres, should not pay compensation for their legalisation. As a result, we suggested that Article 78 point 1 of the tax reduction be increased from 99 to all 100%. Accepting amendments would not allow people who need to legalise their facility any financial benefit, any savings, that one per cent, however, would simplify the legalisation process. I am also taking the opportunity to look back at the construction of 5,000 so-called cheap apartments in the "Step Stepanovic" settlement in Belgrade and ask why all these apartments are being built in Belgrade and why are they even being built in Belgrade? Will this contribute to the even development of the Republic of Serbia? Anyway, he won't. Such a policy will lead to already crowded Belgrade becoming more crowded and Serbia's interior even more uninhabited. Because if you offer insiders cheap apartments only in Belgrade, there will be one number of citizens who will try to buy these apartments and move to Belgrade. I remind you of the fact that there are more than 80,000 completely abandoned rural properties in Serbia. I ask the question – was it not more useful and socially responsible for these tens of millions of euros to be invested in building apartments in Belgrade to buy and revitalise these abandoned rural properties? Or, if they have to build apartments to build apartments in the interior? For the same money in the interior of Serbia, more than 7,500 apartments can be made. Secondly, the construction of these apartments would motivate people from Surdulica, Crna Trava, Velika Plana, Smederjevska Palanka, Arilla and other smaller places in Serbia to stay in their homes, which would in any case contribute to a more balanced population of the Republic of Serbia. Even the political benefit for the ruling coalition would be greater, as in any case it sounds better if it is said that 7,500 apartments, 150 in each municipality, were made in the interior of 200 municipalities, than if 5,000 apartments were said to have been built in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52179	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Đuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52180	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported formally under this amendment, but this whole article 185, i.e. Article 78 of the Amendment to the Law, is in several segments problematic. The minister's not here right now, but the ministry has been defined for this concept where practically the main idea, the main news is that reduction to 99%. In his amendment, Mr Maric suggested that it be a complete elimination of this fee, i.e. to be a full release and to replace the 99 per cent by 100. You've given quite an interesting explanation why the amendment refuses. You say, when it comes to buildings built without a building permit, that compensation under the law can be reduced, under equal conditions for all persons who have illegally built those facilities. I think the point in this is "under equal conditions for all persons who have illegally built objects". Here we also return to those conditions that are given, for example, in attitude 6, i.e. attitude 8, and the attitude of the 11th member, which are problematic. Mrs. Radeta was talking about it part of it. The question of which the ministry or government must answer has now really been raised. Mrs. Radeta spoke of a situation where a person who is in the legalisation process, who is to exercise the right to a discount, or a member of his family household, may have some other property on the territory of the same unit of local self-government. I am not sure that this example from Belgrade she spoke of is possible, therefore, Dedinje, or the Sava Wreath and let's say Zemun, because according to the law of the Belgrade city municipality, they are not units of local self-government, but we need to clarify this situation. The worst situation would be if when the application of this law begins, hundreds or thousands of citizens face the problem. So, for these people, this problem has been going on too long: the first law since 2003, then the 2009 law, and these latest amendments to the law. If you look at the comments of people these days on internet sites and in direct contact, people are completely weird, they do not know how this part of the law will work, and that is what they are most interested in – in which percentage, under what conditions and within what time they will be able to achieve the right to discount. Another problem is this provision, that is, the condition where those persons are said to have a permanent residence of at least one year at the address of the legalized object. What year is it? I assume you meant a year before the law was passed or before the law came into force. It's probably in hundreds, thousands of cases, that date, that possibility of achieving this right is different. Another problem is the one that exists in practice. You probably know very well that people have often had serious problems reporting their residence in that address where an illegal, or illegal object is located. The situation was different and different conditions, i.e. different papers were sought from people, depending on the territory that police administrations are dealing with. This opens up another problem, that most often only one person, only one member of the household reported formally at that address, and that other people stayed at an old address, at that address where they used to live. This will cause a problem for you when a practical unit of local self-government is interpreted this condition whether members of the family household have other immovable property on the territory of the same unit of local self-government. Finally, (this is already about the next amendment, but not to report again), you have rejected one amendment by Parliamentarian Petronivic on the grounds that this is not about the imperial norm, when you are talking about the right to achieve this discount having those persons who have concluded the contract for obtaining documentation with the local self-government unit. It is true that it is not a formal imperative norm, but only a possibility, but in real life it will happen practically in all situations. If the right to discount is related to the conclusion of such a contract, it is natural to expect people to enter into such an arrangement, by force only because of this discount. Of course, in some situations and in order to make it easier for them, simply to obtain documentation, but it seems, for a deeper reading, that it's an explanation that it's not an imperial norm quite superficially or, let me say, formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52181	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52182	I assume you're allowing the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52183	You have no right to a replica. You have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52184	Okay. I will only use one minute of the parliamentary group. It is amazing that I do not have the right to reply, given that my colleague Đuric called me by name and last name. I just want to explain, unfortunately, that it is possible that someone can exercise the right of this member and two city municipalities on Belgrade's territory because the monasteries are divided by units of city municipalities, not just for Belgrade as a local self-government and because taxes are paid at the level of city municipalities. Therefore, it is entirely possible for this law for someone to exercise this right, i.e. to make a discount for paying legalization facilities, although it is in a completely unequal position with other citizens, because it is possible that there are 17 facilities on Belgrade's territory, as much as there are local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52185	Thank you. This will be the time for replication. I'm sorry. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 78. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 78th Amendment was submitted by National MP Maja Lausevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to the 78th People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, was withdrawn in writing. On Article 78 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the Serbian Radical Party on Article 78(3), which reads - the words "or if he or members of his family household do not have other immovableity in the territory of the unit of local self-government on which the object of legalisation is located" are deleted. The explanation we have given is: if someone has an old, wasteful or smaller house, and next to it makes or buys an object that would solve their living issue, there is no residence in that address, there is no reason not to allow that person to be reduced from the position of the 6th member. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. Given the fact that the amendment has not been accepted, we believe that there are few situations in practice, there are too many problems, and I think you should have had an understanding of this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52187	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 78th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52188	It's just, I'm sorry, can you tell us the time of the parliamentary group or mine?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52189	The SRS parliamentary group has 19 minutes and 20 seconds, and you as an authorised representative have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52190	I'll use that time with the amendment. I will generally refer to this article 78, which in principle, according to reactions and comments, the most controversial in this whole law, has opened up the most controversy and debate. I think someone just said, Mrs. Radeta, that it's an expression of thoughtlessness. This is proof that the government, in the policy it is leading, has neither a clear vision nor a clear strategy how to deal with problems that have gone backwards in Serbia's space for years. There's a series of evidence here for that sort of thing, so that's even this attitude that I've submitted the amendment to along with my colleagues, where I've asked for this one-year period to be extended to three years. The Committee has submitted an amendment which has been deleted for one and three years and has no time limits. Be careful how interesting it is: when we adopted this law here in 2009 it is firmly said – what is built up to this moment, it will be possible, after that, to be the subject of destruction. Then, two years later, the promoter introduced in his law a provision that it was enough to prove that he lived for a year at that address for an object to be legalized. We didn't accidentally propose three, to return you to the period until the basic law was passed, because you will allow, from that day forward, some objects that have been unconsciously, or illegally built, destroyed. In the same period someone was building, his object was destroyed, and someone was also illegally building after the adoption of this law, and now they're going to get a chance to legalize. Now you are even more flexible – there is no time limit, or no time period in which they were obliged to apply to this address. We think it's been very correct for three years. We managed what you suggested, what you assured us two and a half years ago when you passed the basic law. Here's a manifestation of the state's complete weakness. We don't care who's to blame, because we don't have people in the ministries, because local self-government is like this or like that. It's just that this is a weakness. This is the kind of thing that's supposed to make the government fall. We cannot recognize the equality of every citizen in this article, by who knows how many basics; I have now stated: some of you have already broken down houses, some will be rewarded for the same offense and will legalise their facilities for free. So, some are damaged by their homes being torn down, others being damaged only by the fact that they were safe and paid, or they entered the construction process according to the law. We're talking about justice and responsibility. A lot of these problems are directly blamed by local self-government. Instead of "biking" local self-government, you now impose on her the law to do five times as many jobs. That's what we said in the principle debate. Here, here in Article 78, they have the opportunity to obtain a document, so now local self-government will only deal with legalization. She doesn't have running jobs. We asked in principle – who will finance these obligations of local self-government? The presidents of the municipalities whine – small transfer funds. Yeah, it's a little transfer money, but a little bit of what he's got right now is going to be financing a job in a cataster, a job here, a job there, so someone can legalize their facility, and then someone in five, two, three years' time, as the law provides, will return that money to the municipality. This is a job that hasn't even taken effect yet, and it's already doomed to failure, because you haven't trained local self-government to deal with such serious affairs in the meantime. We come to what may be the most important, and as far as this article is concerned – what about people who have entered the building process or are now legalised, how will they be equal to those who are privileged and able to legalise their objects through this law? You refused our amendment. A colleague, Radisa Ilic, put up with it. He'll talk about it later. Give proof, or show the will, that before the Constitution or before the law in this country all are equal. What kind of answer did we get on that amendment, here, I just have to go one step ahead: “... for the reasons that the deadline in the proposed amendment, which is 1 January 2004, is not based on the relevant regulation. “ What does that mean? We'll explain why we looked back on that date and on that deadline. But in reasons, you're not really going to answer why it is, which is why you are in all of this, what are the principles, and where we can see Serbia in three years based on these legal norms that you've proposed. In addition to the fact that three people in the Ministry will still be dealing with these affairs, because there is no money in the budget to fund it to be 30 people, and a bunch of administrative obligations will come out of this law both for local self-government and for the state, which has to exercise control. This job can't be done without one categorical... and without the state's octrophe; here the state must show both courage and determination, politically. She's not here. First, no political courage, no political concept and no political will. Perhaps Mr. Dulic could have more of it, perhaps personally showing much more initiative to do so, but simply, this is a completely, completely boisterous political area to solve such serious things in this way. It seems to us that you will get into even bigger problems, that you will get deeper into the maze, from which you will not have the need to come out, but you will leave it in the heritage of some others to come out of it, to seek the way out, and you will only declare it, calling for responsibility, to be far away from the position and from the obligation to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52191	The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52192	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment tabled by counterpart Sarovic also refers to Article 78, which is obviously, as counterpart Stevanovic said, one of the most interesting members in this law. This Article in paragraph 5 refers to the percentages provided for by the law to be reduced in the legalisation of so-called ‘legislatives’. illegal facilities or buildings built without a building permit. Your proposal is for a certain group to be 60%; we suggested it to be 70%. What it says about the unseriousness and irresponsibility of you from the government is an explanation; you say that "an amendment is not accepted because a legislative solution is more comprehensive, given the purpose of the facilities, which is one of the criteria for reducing the compensation for the construction land in this case". What do you prove to be more celery? Here, we claim that our proposal is more consistent. So, you're only doing this for the sake of order, and the point is, to get back to the beginning, when we talked about it in principle, the point is that you don't generally have any desire or intention to solve problems of illegal construction in Serbia's territory. Here, as the debate takes place today, people from the field are being followed, we received a fax from the SRS parliamentary group of construction inspector Stanimir Drobnjakovic from Priboj. Believe it or not, the man, just because he wanted to work in accordance with the law, ended up on VMA, because he was still unknown, with phantoms on his heads, on November 29th last year they waited outside his building, beat him up, and nothing. I say nothing to anyone because in September he was threatened and he spoke to the police and the competent municipal authorities to distract them that he could not do his job as a construction inspector. It's about what I told you in the context of an amendment, that this inspector has made a solution to suspend the construction of a certain investor named Pjevac Jelenko because his facility seriously threatened the business space of a certain Sreten Komarica, so, and physically threatened him. There was a question of who had stronger ties in the management of the Pryboy municipality. Apparently, the inspector who did his job in accordance with the law had no protection or municipality in which he was employed. This gentleman states he's still... Of course, he mentions both prosecutors and family ties between investors and prosecutors, i.e. deputy prosecutors, etc., but says there are other cases of illegal construction in addition to this case where local authorities are preventing the inspector from law enforcement, preventing scheduled demolitions, as was the case in the case of a cafe bar "Jin" owned by Vitomir Bajic, and the "Serbian ravine", members of drug lord Darko Saric. Look how much the law is not worth to you, how much it's not worth to you what you're prescribed in the law. That is why we claim that this article in 78 will also be a source of corruption, abuse, a source of border-determination. So not only will inspectors be corrupt, but also competent in municipalities that will determine the boundaries of the first zone, the second zone, the extra zone. That's why it's not a good criterion for you, so you should have used the criteria of what we told you in the principle debate and what we're saying today. But you only show that you are not interested, as part of the regime, like this government, in solving any single problem for any single citizen of Serbia. You're just dropping the job, making bill proposals. Every two or three months we have amendments and additions to the same law. When we discussed the Law on Planning and Construction 17 months ago, we claimed that due to its inappropriability, we would soon have this law in the form of amendments and additions. The minister said publicly that it would certainly not be the case with his law. Here, that case happened, today we're discussing it. And now we claim to you that you are, and you will adopt, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, an inapplicable law, a law that is a source of corruption and crime. Again we will have unresolved problems in this area, and again we will have the Law on Planning and Construction, that is, its alterations and additions on the agenda, and you will again swear that this is the best solution, as we have heard from the Schumarc and beyond, here, to this day. We will listen to this until further notice because, unfortunately, in Serbia, corruption is the only way to function. They're all corrupt in the system of government. We don't have system institutions, we have corrupt civil servants, and that's a fundamental problem, unfortunately, which ends at the very top of the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52193	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Bojana Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52194	I thank you, Your Honor. I had to answer and comment on Mrs. Radeta's little statement that this government has no intention of resolving the legalization problem. As someone who deals with this profession, I'd like to say that since the time this area has been regulated by law, there have never been any greater benefits for illegal construction, or for illegal construction. I also want to remind myself that it's about people who are unconscious, who have built lawlessly and that we should essentially carry out one analysis of how there have ever been a million illegal objects, in which time it happened that we now have to figure out ways to pull that red line, which we are talking about so much, to stop this illegal construction, or to legalize what was wrongly created in some previous period. I'm talking about people who are basically unconscious citizens because they built illegally. In doing so, I will take into account all the circumstances that have occurred in this country and that have in some way forced the citizens to behave in this way, sometimes yes, sometimes not, but they now more than ever in this country have the opportunity to legalise their illegal objects in a favourable way. As I said in the debate in principle, I will now underline - we did nothing if we did not stop the illegal construction. So there is clearly an effort by the state to legalise illegal objects, but we also have to work together to stop this illegal construction. If we don't stop the illegal construction, then with all this, that we go beyond the principles of the profession, through urban parameters, and sanction something, we haven't done anything, if it keeps repeating it. So I continue to insist on strict application of the law, all regulations, that both local self-government and all competent institutions enforce the law properly and that we exercise control here. Only then will we be able to be content with what has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52195	Thank you. Right on the line, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52196	As for the Serbian Radical Party, it is really unacceptable for us to say that people are unconscious, that Serbian citizens are unconscious. Of course not, there are no citizens of Serbia or almost no citizens in Serbia who would not want the facility built with a building permit, that it is listed in a cadastre, that it is listed in a land book and that everything is completely legal. Unfortunately, the main culprit for the fact that there are millions of illegally built buildings in Serbia is the state, are local self-government, is the inability to get a legal permit, to unform construction plots, to abuse local self-government units, and also to the ministry itself. Mrs. Stanojevic, I am not speaking personally, Mrs. Stanojevic would have to accept the fact that this regime has no intention of resolving any single issue of Serbian citizens. Her claim that she insists on law enforcement... Since she is a colleague from Vrnjaka Banja, here is a question for her – is "The Trade", that famous SNS financier Tom Nikolic, who has illegally built half of Vrnjaka Banja, has legalized his facilities under what conditions? How he legalized and has he legalized his facilities Mr. Zoran Babic, who plays the MP in this House? So, since her colleague said she was in the business, I really don't know what she's doing at the level of local self-government, but if she has to do with power in Vranjska Banja, since she's in the DS, among other things, let her check these two cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52197	The word is Mrs. Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52198	I'm glad that there's a place I'm from and that I'm, in the end, weak, especially since I'm from that profession and how I take care of everything. I couldn't directly answer this question if these objects you're talking about were legalized. I am well aware that they are being built in Vranjska Banja, I am well aware that they were without proper papers, and I can promise to ask each other in any case, both for your sake and for your sake, and that we can talk about whether legalization has been done in the meantime and in what way. By the way, Vrnjačka Banja really has a big problem with illegal construction; it has a problem, at the very least, with legal construction, but I just said that, it's about the objects that occurred in some previous period. That's exactly what I've been pointing out – that we need to analyze what period they were created for and why. I repeat, I recognize well, given that I am from this profession, that the state intends to withdraw the red line and legalize illegal objects. I appeal to everyone to make it possible by law that it no longer happens with us and that this country looks arranged, as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52199	Thank you. The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the views of this member, is said: "The right to reduce the prescribed article 6 and 10 of this member can be achieved by persons who conclude with the local self-government unit an agreement on the arrangement of mutual relations with regard to the compensation for the arrangement of construction land or the arrangement of mutual relations with regard to obtaining the prescribed documentation by 31 June 2012. And in the principle debate, it's just amazing that in one such serious bill, you put June 31st! If this were a proposal from the local community, I might understand, I might understand, but I would certainly demand the responsibility of the president of the local community. If the level of the municipality, it would already be a serious failure, the level of the city -- even more serious, but if such a proposal comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is simply incomprehensible. Such failures must not be allowed. Also, this law was signed by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. So, past the Ministry, past the government, these are the most serious, responsible people who run this country. Is it possible that no one reads this? Is it possible that whoever wrote, who typed, did not look at at least at the calendar of how many June days, so that by June 31st, this position of this member would be valid? Also, I suggested that this date be deleted. Why? How will citizens conclude a contract with a local self-government unit by this date if they don't get an answer from the municipality whether their facility can be legalized or not? Why would I go to the local self-government unit if I didn't have an answer from the municipality? Excuse me, I filed a request three, five, seven years ago, I didn't get an answer from the municipality, whether the facility could be legalized or not. I claim that by this date, by this deadline that you have set, a large number of citizens will not get an answer from the municipality at all whether their object can legalize or not. That is why I have also proposed that this date be deleted and that only after the municipality's reply be concluded contracts between the persons and units of local self-government. Also, during today's debate, we have been informed by the Committee that you have corrected this technical error and that it is now 30 June. We also received information that the Committee has proposed five amendments. In this regard, I only want to ask one question to the President of the Assembly -- how is it possible that the Committee, which was scheduled yesterday, where I came from, four MPs were, of the 15 that this committee has... The board was cancelled yesterday because there was no quorum and it was said that it would most likely be held today without knowing the time or place. Is it possible that the Committee was held today without members of the SRS Committee being invited? As Vice-President of the Committee, I am also not invited to today's Committee, although I regularly attended all Committee meetings whenever they were scheduled. I repeat this question once again to the President of the Assembly – how is it possible that today the Committee will be held, who has scheduled it, when it is scheduled, where it has been held and why such a failure has been made, that members of the Committee are not invited and I am not invited as vice president of the Committee to attend today's session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52201	Thank you. This is definitely going to be checked in the break, so we'll see what it's really about, because it's not right if it is. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to article 78. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78, which reads - Article 13, item 14, which reads: "The legal and natural persons in the ordinary procedure or in the legalisation procedure paid compensation for the construction land for the period from 1 January 2004 to the date of entry into force of this law will pay 50% of the tax on property until 31 December 2016." So, this is not only the case when this law is about paying compensation in the legalisation process, but it has become, I would say, a practice for the reconciliation of tax obligations by citizens – that those citizens, meaning those bonds that regularly settled their obligations, which paid the state what the malts are now feeling deceived. You are now giving a discount to those who are now legalizing an object or who are just about to do so, even though some deadlines have passed. If you had accepted amendments and suggestions from the SRS and determined minimum and acceptable fees when this law was passed, it would have been the first and this second legalization too. Like this, you from the Ministry are acting, as I would say, like some intrinsic merchant at the fair. So, you take the goods out, the price is too high, so whoever buys it, gets it, and in the end, it doesn't waste the job, the rest of the retailer's goods you give to be worthless. The Serbian Radical Party wants the amendment to provide a certain satisfaction to those who regularly reconciled and reconciled their obligations. That's why you should have accepted this amendment. One question for you: how does a man who respected even a bad law enforcement law and a square in the legalization process, say, pay in some extra zone of 10,000 dinars, and his neighbor didn't do the deadlines, house to house, same street, all the same, that square today with some discounts, say, pay 500 dinars? The feeling is, believe me, really painful. The state, because of the measures it proposes, should have a responsibility to those who respected the law. Here, the amendment mentions on 1 January 2004; the reason is that before this date, we remember, the first Law on Legalisation, at the time of Dragan Šumarac's ministry, and under even more difficult and worse conditions, with much higher taxes and fees; then the latter came. Whoever settled all those obligations should get some kind of satisfaction for the state's zeal. Otherwise, what's the state's message to the taxpayers? Simply – do not pay anything; now the fee is high, wait for the regulation or the law to be passed, so you will be aware of some maybe 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52203	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52204	Thank you. I am reporting on the basis of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In order for this debate to continue to make sense, we ask that before this debate is concluded, that is to say, in the next few minutes, if the Committee on Urbanism and Construction has indeed been held, which of the MPs, members of the Committee, has been invited, how many were present. Because there is clearly a doubt that there was no quorum on this committee. It is obvious that colleagues from the SRS, members of this committee, are not invited to the Committee's session. So we can move on at all... Because if you've led the National Assembly astray, then it's really something we should really talk about. So, please, Mr. Chairman, ask for your service. It can be delivered to us in the next few minutes. In any case, we ask the President of the Committee to inform us which is why the discrimination of the SRS MPs has been committed and why they are not invited to the Committee's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52205	Thank you. We've already requested that report. I've informed you there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't do it right before this. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52206	Mr. Minister, since you're here, I think this amendment really deserves your comment and you're telling us why you didn't essentially accept this as a government, as a pronoun, because I think what it says in the explanation is a little bit funny. It says: “... on the grounds that the deadline in the proposed amendment, which is on 1 January 2004, is not based on an appropriate regulation, on which grounds could be laid down for the reduction of the amount of the property tax. “ I have two questions. Why aren't you having a disputed date from 2016? What logic did you manage when you set this date as controversial? That's one question. I'd really like you and your colleagues to tell me, or anyone from the congregation majority, which are the relevant regulations on the basis of which you will be exempt from paying a 99 percent fee for all those who get the opportunity under this law? What are the regulations that freed them from the obligation to pay compensation for the construction land? So, here's just a matter of your political will, do you want to accept. Here are the rules, this should be a regulation that will determine the reasons for reducing the property tax of 50%. My fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I have brought my project and contract with the Building Land Directorate to be discussed in principle. So in 2005, it cost me 3,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, to enter the construction process completely legal. At the time, Mr. Minister, I said I was the president of the Assembly and I asked your colleagues if a construction inspector should come to my yard. Of course I wouldn't, but I didn't wait for the Swiss law, or the 2009 law, or these changes and additions. I tried to show an example of how it should be done as a local official in front of the SRS. I ask, on behalf of all people who have tried to be safe and responsible, the SRS requires these people to be equal with all those you will allow (which is good) to legalize their facilities. It's good because of the property tax, it's good for all that Radeta's colleague said about the enrollment, the catastra, it's good for everything. Let's show good faith to these people who did it in a legal way. Why in 2004? Because we didn't want him writing on April 22, 2003, when the 2003 Law was passed. It is easier for you to enter, in some ways, from 1 April 2004, because of the tax on property, because it is done annually, and to get going. Those who have done so legally for the next five years release 50% of the property tax. What is the issue, what causes the need and reason for doubt, for question, or is there no basis in law and regulations? That's really pointless. So, as you want to show the will to legalize this without money, show the will and impose that obligation on local self-government to free people who were correct in property taxes, those 50% of the value they should pay. First, it's not much, local self-government won't suffer a great deal of pressure or lack in the budget, because the property tax is their original income, and I think you will show the will and determination to respect the Constitution, the laws and equality of all citizens in this country. Otherwise, unfortunately, it will cast a thick shadow on this law, so if this job were to succeed one day to bring an end, it would mark it as something that was discriminatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52207	Mr. Lapchev, according to this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52208	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, is about an amendment that is quite meaningful and I don't see why it hasn't been adopted. But the essence of the whole story here is, among other things, the way the legalization of lawless objects will be done. About a year and a half ago, when this law was passed, about July 2009, the minister explained in his then presentation that the essential reasons for introducing order in the area of construction were to cover the whole country in a plan to create conditions for further legal construction and, of course, to shorten procedures, to speed up the process of obtaining the necessary building permits, and to allow legalisation of illegally erected buildings, which have very much on record by the Ministry. It is mainly about people who have been building these facilities for many years back and who have not had the opportunity, because of their social status, to pay certain fees for editing city building land. They simply had to invest more money in building the facility, and they had no money to solve the problems of paperwork and fees paid to local authorities. It is then recommended that local self-government bring specific regulations, where legalisation will be made possible in such a way that, with minimal paperwork and at a symbolic price, legalisation of all possible objects, legalisation wherever possible. The process has started, therefore, by applying the law since September 2009 and beyond. According to the data I own, around 250,000 requirements for legalisation of the facilities were received in Belgrade, and barely about 5% of these requirements were processed. So if for a year or a year or a half it took to process 5%, it takes about 20 years to process all the legalization requirements that have been filed so far. There's a similar case in Nis. It's roughly between 5% and 10%. So it's going to take us a long time to process the objects that are subject to legalization. After a year and a half of the law we passed in 2009, we are changing this law today in some important matters. Minister Dulic told us, at the end of December of last year, that now additional fees for legalising facilities will be reduced, that they will practically be completely free. When asked whether this means that money will be returned to those who, in the meantime, in those years and a half, applied for legalisation of the facilities and paid compensations, which are far lower than those that are real, was said – no, it will not be, of course. Whoever paid for it paid for it, and those who haven't paid for it so far, who are entering a new procedure, they will get free legalization. The question now arises: What is the essence of a law that is passed in the National Assembly? Is it essential that he throws out a mockery or that he treats all the citizens of this country equally? You have one category of people who are safe and who have built all their facilities as predicted by the law, with all the procedures and paperwork planned, paid compensations that were far greater in the regular procedure than those for legalization. They're likely to be, we can't play with percentages, but surely over 70-80%, those who built and owned objects. They paid the fees. Here, I'll take an example: my neighbor, who built the facility completely legally, with all the papers, paid a fee for setting up construction land in Nis. He paid about 5,000 euros in compensation for editing city building land. 20 meters from him was built by a man without a single piece of paper, wild. Construction inspection and competent authorities did not, of course, prevent it. The man submitted a request under the Law on Legalisation to legalize his facility and paid about 600 euros. They've been building apart for over a year. Now you tell me which message is sent by this law and this kind of approach to people who, on the one hand, are building legally by the letter of the law and by those who don't respect the law? A clear message is being sent that you who do not respect the law will be much better off. Well, and those who have been late, or at the last minute have submitted legalisation documents under this law since last year, have not paid that fee, will now be rewarded again, so they will not pay even those symbolic 10-15% of the regular price, but will be fully rewarded so they will not pay anything. It is indeed an absolutely unacceptable practice, which will not put order into this area, but will further degrade the area of housing in Serbia and send an ugly message – that people who respect the law are discriminated against by those who do not respect the law. On the other hand, it is appropriate to say a few words about the ministry itself and its role in the whole story. We had a debate last week about the government. As Minister for the second time, you've been chosen to lead a portfolio of urbanism, spatial planning, environmental protection, and now you've been added mining, I don't really know on what basis and by what criteria. There was an opportunity at the time, and I expected the prime minister, proposing you and other ministers in the government, to say a word about how certain ministers led certain ministries and on which basis the ministers who proposed to be re-qualified to continue their work in a particular ministry and in the new government. It would be logical to conclude that those who led certain resolutions in the previous three years in the government of the Republic of Serbia led the area right, that they had improved the situation in these resolutions, that they had certain successes and that, of course, they should continue to lead the ministries, in order to deliver even better results. What results did the ministry you run give, Mr. Dulic? I'm not sure it gave any good results, if only after a year and a half we're changing the law. I'm not sure it's produced results in the area of faster and shorter procedures for issuing building permits... (Chairman: Mr. Lapchevic, I apologize, I must interrupt you. I would ask you to link that generalized discussion of yours to the amendment of Parliamentarian Radisa Ilic, which we are discussing. Be nice. If you followed closely, I've been talking about legalizing and legalizing objects until now. I'll be done in a minute, if that story bothers you. I know that truth often hurts, but simply, the facts are such that ministers who have not done anything are rewarded, but have caused chaos in certain areas. This can be said freely for this ministry, as the number of permits issued over the previous year and a half clearly concludes that the procedures are much longer and that construction in Serbia has stalled. Inventing a pre-election law, not a law to reduce the consequences of the economic crisis, building buildings and helping Serbia's construction industry, is another way in which Serbia's money will be used very badly, not to say abused, because only similar companies, which are close to certain parties in power, will be able to build under the law, without tender procedures, public procurement procedures. It is clear that such laws and procedures are totally against the constitution. In the last year, there were no effects and aid to the construction industry at all, because almost no object was started to build under that law. Look at the wonders, it's going to start mostly this year, with big investments, and it's just a coincidence ahead of the upcoming elections. So that's why this bill is pre-election, and that's why all the things that have been happening with this ministry are absolutely unacceptable. This law won't do any good. Not to mention 400,000 dinars, or how many, spent on the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign; not to mention that over a million euros were given only to billboards for the campaign; not to mention the 25,000 euros given for the development of the Ministry's site, etc. It's absolutely under wraps. Nor will this law, nor will your assembly, most likely to support it, contribute to the construction industry, and it is the driver of many others, nor will order be introduced into these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52209	It bothers me, of course, whenever you abuse the Rules of Procedure and the word I give you to talk about the subject on the agenda, because I suppose neither Mr. Radisa Ilic, the applicant of the amendment, could recognize his amendment in your discussion. Mr. Oliver Dulic has his word, and after that, I'll set a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52210	Thank you. Okay, I think I'd really have a problem getting into a debate with Mr. Lapčević about all these things he said. I don't have to explain to you the reasons why I think this ministry has not only fulfilled its objectives and tasks over the past two and a half years, but also done the things that I can do freely, and one day you might be in a position to notice and accept, call it historic. We have established order in many areas where order did not exist, in which there were neither laws nor nor nor nor norms. When we talk about the Ministry of Ecology or the segment of environmental science, we've passed 20 very important laws, over 300 sublegal acts. As for meeting our obligations in line with our path to the European Union, this ministry achieves the best results. As for the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, I am extremely proud of it. For the first time in recent history, it has popularized something that is obviously a huge problem, and represents a civilizational step; it will continue to work, regardless of all the vicious attacks that come from those who are trying to take on just every possible result that is undeniable and which is so obvious deny. In the area of construction and urbanism, we inherited enormous problems. One part of them will be solved through a legal initiative. The fall in the construction industry is not due to any law, because it exists throughout Europe and the whole world. The fall in the construction industry is due to the global economic crisis. Just thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which through investment in housing, which through the implementation of major construction projects, in this year, be sure, we will record one big growth, which will save the construction operation and certainly contribute to the growth of our GDP. It's not up to you to judge whether they're results or not. I don't expect you to commend the results, but they're indisputable. What you're trying to do by bringing me into contact with any kind of affairs is really embarrassing, especially when you're exporting numbers that absolutely don't stand. With great pride, I can say that the government of the Republic of Serbia helped hold a tennis tournament. If it hadn't been for your help, he wouldn't have been maintained, and he has to be maintained. It's been done over the past two years through the Ministry of Environment. In this and next year, if there is a need, it will be helped on the other side, but the state has to do these things, whether the public understands it or not. When you open the site issue, I can only say that the portal "Let's Clean Serbia" is an extremely successful portal and probably one of the cheapest ones this country has built. There are much more expensive ones, which are also paid at a real market price. Even at one point, expecting that question, I had for you ready answers, about how much web portals and websites cost... Mr. Minister, I must warn you to talk about the amendment. I'm just answering the question. At a time when DSS members... (President: this is not the time to answer questions. () Only in the end to return to the amendment, very briefly. It was actually a theme. I just don't know since when I don't have the right to answer the question they asked me? I don't know what kind of changes the Rules of Procedure made impossible for me, since Mr. Lapcevic here asked me a question and accused me directly of some things, I don't know which Rules of Procedure I can't answer, as he has the right to ask me all these questions? Okay. As for fair compensation or compensation for those who have done everything in accordance with the law, I would prefer that the illegally built buildings did not exist in Serbia. Personally, I was inclined to find a way to compensate those who stood in line, waiting for permits, or paying for legalisation by other pricers. That, unfortunately, is not possible through the property tax. Taxes, i.e. property tax, are entirely different categories, which represent the original incomes of local self-government. I'm afraid that by accepting this amendment, we would do damage to local self-government, because we would leave them without certain incomes. On the other hand, the category of persons to be covered by discounts is significantly smaller than the number of illegally built objects, which is shown in any possible statistics. The discounts will cover only social categories of the population, which are very precisely defined by law, which otherwise the state should assist and assist them in this way. All those who built buildings in the first and extra zone, who built economic facilities for the market, who built industrial buildings, halls, plants, etc. They will have to pay the full price of legalisation, as well as citizens who have legalized facilities under some other laws and some other pricemakers. Here we are talking about the most vulnerable categories of the population, which in case we try to find compensation for everyone else we essentially deny for this kind of help, because it would be easier to tell them too – you pay the full price, than to go back on dates and that those who also illegally built, but they paid for some other pricer, now we're sort of rewarding. The whole legalization is a very complicated process, which implies forgiveness from the sins of breaking the law of the past. Believe me, we've spent a lot more hours and days trying to find adequate solutions to this problem than you can possibly think of. We've been dealing with this problem for months. This isn't the best possible, this is the least bad way to get out of this problem. There is no good way out of the problem of illegally built objects in Serbia, there is no fair model, there is no way to say now – we will make a model for everyone to be satisfied with. We are aware of the fact that many will say – why did I stand in line and pay full price, and now you forgive someone? Yes, but if a certain infrastructure is to be built, he will not be able to expect that infrastructure to be joined as the one who paid the land planning fee. He'll have to pay for segments of building that infrastructure. He will have, too, some other obligations that some before him have paid. When you try to explain this problem a little bit... Again, I was inclined to find a way for them to compensate, but it wasn't real at this point, and I'm sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52211	Thank you. The reminders for the purpose of Article 106(1) – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted – obliges me to warn anyone who does not adhere to this obligation. Based on Article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 3:15 p.m. Thank you. The word will be first given to Mr. Stevanović. [[After break – 15/15]] We're continuing our work. The 79th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52213	The Serbian Progressive Party intervened in two positions of this member because we believe there is a lot of uncertainty about this institute of public interest and that serious abuses are possible because we do not have a clear rule on what is marshland, what is an unstable terrain. Tens of thousands of construction buildings on such grounds come under question. We tried our amendment to solve this problem for the benefit of the citizens. It should be recalled that, on the basis of Article 198, if the legalisation of such facilities is refused, the destruction should follow. The damage would be too great, and the question of the state's responsibility is also raised, in the sense that individual skates and waterways are eventually being remedied and that life conditions are thus improved when these citizens are concerned. We believe that this amendment has its own logic, and it particularly bothers us that there is no regulation based on which it could be determined which objects could fall under this category. In part two, we intervened on the position of the fourth member. This refers to the different treatment of natural and legal persons on the one hand and, on the other hand, the state, state institutions, which, as well as citizens, often built buildings without building permits. The principle of equality before the Constitution must be respected, according to us. We often have practice, when it comes to state authorities, to issue permits very quickly, which is said overnight, that citizens and legal persons are in another plan and that much more time is needed to resolve their status and their demands. Therefore, in the next amendment that follows in front of the SNS, we demand that both state bodies and natural and legal persons be regulated in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52214	Thank you. I'd just like to let you know that today we're going to finish this item on the agenda, and tomorrow at 10.00 we're going to continue our work. Since Mr Putin, the prime minister of the Russian Federation, will be visiting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow, we will work an hour before his arrival. Orientatively, that arrival should be between 2:30 and 15.00 hours, so we work normally in the morning. That's why today, after this point is over and the work is over, we'll continue tomorrow. Tomorrow afternoon... We'll assess, I think we'll only work before noon. We'll make a deal tomorrow. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Oedipus of the Sheriffs submitted together to the 79th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 80th amendment. National MP Petronijevic withdrew the amendment in writing on 22 March 2011. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 82nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52215	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, before the SNS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 82, and the amendment reads, "Article 191 is deleted." So the amendment refers to erasing this member. Why? In practice, Article 191 of this Act prescribes specific conditions for the legalisation of state-owned facilities, which are significantly less favourable than the conditions laid down for the legalisation of objects owned by non-State-owned natural and legal persons. We believe that the legalisation of objects cannot be subject to different arches or rules, or that these rules depend on whose ownership these objects are. If this principle applies, then the principle of equality of all before the Constitution and the law of Article 21. The Constitution and the principle of equality of all forms of property referred to in Article 82(1). It is difficult to explain how private owners submit all evidence of ownership of buildings, land, installation reports, infrastructure networks, external arrangements, so all the necessary documentation related to these facilities, and practically, according to this article, for state-owned facilities, this is not binding? That is why we believe that eradicating this member is in fact a state where all owners of objects and investors will be in the same position, which is in line with our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52216	The 83rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The amendment was rejected on the Legislative Committee. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have left me with an answer regarding a member referring to a discount in relation to city building land and planning. Mrs. Saska Damnjanovic was in the O.R. I'd like to get your answer, it would mean a lot to me, because I was really trying to convince you that today is Tuesday. In Article 83, I asked for the addition of one attitude, which says: “When the object which is the subject of legalization was built on a building land in the state property, without other land users who later appeared for enrollment in an immovableity catalogue on any legal basis, the state with the property owners in the legalisation process solves property-legislative relations. ” What was I looking for that for? Because there are huge problems when it comes to enrolling in the catastran. There's a possibility that public insight doesn't show up people, they don't deliver any documentation or evidence of property, and then, when you're looking for a state of enrollment gene, you can see that people who don't actually live there or have an object, or have any right to property, and they're listed in a cadastre. Of course, it causes problems in the legalisation process, because you know that all the users of the parcel need to agree to the legalization process. Then what's going on? A large number of blackmails from those owners, people who are enrolled in the cadastre in a strange way because they were not in public view and have no proof. There are court disputes, claims to be wiped out of the catastra, and the process is pretty much ongoing. We have an example in the elite part of Belgrade, on Topcider Hill, where the property of the state of Serbia, which granted the competition land, to the purpose, to certain persons. They managed to implement the legalisation process, but failed to resolve property-legal relations with people who did not know that they existed on the plot because they had just appeared. I will also remind you, for example, of the foreign ministry, which is also listed in the cadastre on a parcel; when the copy of the foreign ministry's defence attorney was taken out, he saw that the defence ministry was registered there. It then initiated a procedure to delete from the cataster of the Ministry of Defence and certain persons, and the procedure was obtained in court; the catastro was sent a solution to delete certain registers from the catastra. What is also bad is the craftsmanship of the catastra, the head of the cadastrian service in Belgrade and the individual presidents of the municipalities. For this reason, and because of the major errors and failures that occurred during enrolment in the country's cadastre, it is necessary to resolve property-legal relations, because property-legal relations are a prerequisite for legalising the facility 100%. So when you get consent, you get the consent of those users that were then on the plot, you can't get the consent of those who weren't on the plot. When the subject comes to legalization on the agenda, people who are enrolled appear. While you are asking them to be deleted and while asking for their consent you do not need, while explaining it, to pass the legalisation deadline; thus you are prevented from participating in the legalisation process, as allowed by this bill. I'm going to give you an example of how the president of the Sava Veneto municipality put himself on the wrong plot. It's like this. This is from the act between the Building and President of the Municipality, which says that the investor delivered the conclusion, so the number of conclusions, time and years, issued by the Department of Construction and Communal Affairs of the Sava Venac Municipality, which corrects the error in the position of 1st dissociative solutions from the preceding indent, so that instead of "on the catastrian plot 11335", the "katastrian parcel 11335/2" should stand. So there's this possibility of an administrative error, the errors of the catastra itself, especially on state land. Let your mistakes be solved by the state. It is absolutely insane that the proceedings are being initiated by those people who have complied with the procedure in accordance with the law and it is absolutely insane for someone to enter someone's plot without knowing it, and that when the legalisation process or any other legal action comes he has a problem because he is being blackmailed. There is the possibility of enrolling in the catastran due to rehabilitation, the appearance of the old owner and any other way that interferes with whoever is on that plot, whether catastrian or building, because one building can have more cadastrian plots. There is a problem of blackmail and a problem by the municipality, which has been doing something by mistake and writing. Then let her correct her mistakes. I cited the example that a public defender or attorney of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was given the solution to delete the entry into the defence ministry's cadastre, which was registered here without object, without any evidence, without participation in a public debate initiated by the Catastrian himself. There are huge problems in the catastrophe, everywhere. Please, Mr. Dulic, pay attention to that, too, because there's a lot of corruption and crime. The former Judge of the Second Municipal Court took part in this by granting the right to a solution to enroll certain investors. They were able to build on this, while other investors, who are not similar or not members of the Democratic Party or who did not want to pay what they were to pay, were given the right with seven, eight, nine months late, a copy of the cadastre, while in court. Then you had a selection of those who could do something and those who couldn't. Please accept this amendment, that the state solves property-legal relations with those who later, on any basis, entered the cadastre, and that people in the legalisation process... (President: Your parliamentary group no longer has time. )......................................................................................................... This process ends in accordance with the law, which is so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52218	Thank you. The 84th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dukević has a word. The parliamentary group has ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52219	This amendment we have submitted concerns Article 84, where we propose to be in Article 199. Laws 2 and 3 are deleted. Why? In this respect, it is clear that immediately upon refusal or rejection of the legalisation requirements, the exclusion of the facility from the water, electricity and all other networks must be carried out. So, immediately after rejection and rejection of the requirements, there is a exclusion from the mentioned networks. We believe that there is no reason for this exclusion to take place immediately because in most cases, it is about objects where people live, very often with small children, so that exclusion from all energy networks creates a social problem in these people, i.e. it prevents normal life. If the law already provides for the destruction of these facilities, why should it be necessary to rule out a water, energy and other network much earlier? If there's a legal solution, it takes a day before that to do what's mentioned. We believe that these views should be deleted and that during a period of time during which rejection or rejection requires and destruction allows people to use these objects, not to bring them into abnormal living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52220	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta, you don't have time for this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52221	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. In your absence, Madam President, we have asked for information as to why the MPs of the SRS are not invited to the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, and they are not. We doubted the fact that there was a quorum on the board. In view of the fact that this committee has 17 members, the quorum should consist of nine members, however, the deputy secretary explained that the Committee was managed by Article 23(3), which says – if the parliamentary group does not propose candidates under Article 1 of this Article, the Committee shall be established in the composition in which it was elected on the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary groups which have proposed. This could be so that there is no member of Article 45(2), which says: "The termination of the duties of a member or deputy board member and the selection of a new member or deputy member of the National Assembly Committee shall be decided at the next session, following the submission of a proposal from the parliamentary group. “ So this is about the fact that the two MPs who resigned were members of the committee. So, we don't have a case from Article 23, where the parliamentary group has failed to propose its members. But we understood... We still got from the deputy secretary a list of members who participated on the Committee and we understood why you wanted to hide this – because of the fact that this quorum, which by us is not a quorum, is a quorum of eight members, in fact, the eighth member was Stefan Zankov from this phantom parliamentary group Advanced Serbia. You wanted to hide that fact that they gave you the quorum, and then you tried to convince us that the quorum didn't really need to, or that everything was regular. Nothing's regular. So he has the right to give you the quorum, which is why you made him, I mean, their MP group, to have a quorum when you need him. It is not disputed, but it is contentious that under the current circumstances you do not have a quorum on this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52222	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, no reason for your excessive, unfounded suspicion. So it's about this committee right now counting 15 members and it's the 8th majority. Therefore, there is absolutely no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you are not satisfied with my answer, I suggest that the assembly in the plenary assembly be declared in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52223	If I may, I'm pleased with the fact that Stefan Zankov gave you the quorum. Thank you. You don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52224	Okay. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52225	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this amendment applies to Article 85, more specifically to Article 201 of the basic law. It is predicted that two more points are added after point 25, so 26) and 27. As I understood from the explanation, or explanation of your ministry why this amendment was not accepted, the idea of the Ministry is to adopt a sublegal act that would refer to the parcel, regulation and construction. So, you will bring one sublegal act and one rule, is that so, which will be binding on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, one typical, I would say, rule. So, what happens in practical application of that rule? I hope you agree with me that in the next period of local self-government, they will come up with their own spatial plans. In this planning documentation, local self-government will have provisions that contain rules on parceling, regulation and construction. These provisions, which will be provided for in these plans of local self-government, will often be in great collegiate with this regulation that you provide for. In this case, very often this rule will not be applied or will be terribly difficult to apply. That's why we suggested formulating the rules for long-term application. That is why we asked for the addition of Article 201 to add two more points: conditions and norms for the design of residential buildings and apartments (this is the first point), and the second point we sought – the way and the procedure for calling and implementing the urban and architectural competition. I think you should have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52226	Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52227	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the scope and complexity of the changes suggest that it may have been more comprehensive to pass a whole new law. In this way, the existing law in one part becomes excessive, and in the other there are too many legal gaps, in the third one too much relying on future government regulations, in the fourth one it enters into the subject of some other laws. In particular, this Article 88 has one deficiency, given that it is not an armed time limit within which the competent authority should react to something provided for in the previous three positions of this Article 88. Our amendment provided for it to be a three-day deadline and to add another position to the existing positions, which would specify how the competent authority should react and within what time limit. It is very important that each member who provides for a certain obligation of the state authority is provided for a time limit, i.e. the deadline within which that obligation is to be carried out, because that is the only way we can achieve that the state is working effectively, that is to say, that its officials really respond in due time to the demands of the citizens. It seems to me that there is a certain problem in Article 52 regarding the application of Article 52. 103 and 104, because unless those who have the right to convert with compensation are allowed to be allowed to give up that conversion... In that case, they shall be denied the right not to complete that conversion if they do not meet that price. I think it'd be a lot more celebratory to let go. I would also point out certain objections to some new kind of norm, so-called. urban cohesion, given that urban cohesion is clearly intruding into another law, which is the Expropriation Act. Only under that law could everything that these new members of the Amendments and Supplements Act foresee. Therefore, if it is such a complicated law, which is so important for the state, we must not allow too often to make changes and supplements. It is much better to notice that the law is inadmissible, that there are serious problems in its implementation, to approach the creation of a new law, by making use of the experience gained by applying the existing law when it is written and proposing a new law, because only in that case will it make sense to pass a new law. So, the experience gained by applying this law indicates that many things need to be changed in order to have a good and efficient law on planning and construction. Not to mention, in the meantime, we should have passed a law on public property and all the other laws that they have on the subject and contained regulation of such serious matter as property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52228	Anyone else want to go by the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I must say that we are very surprised by your sentence, President of the Parliament, when you said there was no injured Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are injured because representatives of the SRS are not invited to the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. It's a serious injury and it has to be stopped and it has to be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52230	Please, you haven't advertised the Rules of Procedure, but I must say, for the sake of correct information, SRS MPs have been additionally invited. Some didn't answer, but they were really invited and don't... You know there's no such discrimination here. The problem is that you don't want to participate in making quorums, but it's your right, which I've never disputed. Don't tell a lie. Since I am in charge of keeping order on the work of congregation bodies, I simply ask you, I am very much esteemed, but I am asking you to address the facts. Thank you in advance and stick to the agenda. Thank you. You can advertise the Rules of Procedure and talk about it, but simply, it's behind this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52231	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, this must be determined...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52232	You can't advertise the same point, the same content you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52233	Article 107. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52234	Here you go, Article 107, just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52235	Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party are not invited. They stated here that they were not informed and could not participate in the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. That's one thing. Representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party were informed and two representatives were there. We have now learned that Vuceta Toskovic, a member of the Committee, participated and gave the quorum. Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, once again, have not been informed of the session, regardless of its announcement at yesterday's session, that it will be held today, but have not been called today. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52236	You've turned off the microphone yourself again, haven't you? Do you want to make the MPs known in the day to vote on whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured? Yes, you do. That's how it's gonna be. You have a word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52237	I'll read article 88. Proposal for a Law: "Decision of a request for approval for the construction of a valid permit and other requirements for the resolution of certain rights and obligations lodged until the date of entry into force of this Act will continue under the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this Act. “ This is one general provision, but this provision excludes all procedures, and these procedures should be given a bonus, I am talking about legalisation but also other procedures and other rights and obligations arising from the provisions of previous laws. If you say that the proceedings will continue according to the regulations that were in force until the day of entry into force of this law, then there is no bonus. There's not everything you've been saying and saying for six months, that legalization will be free, that it will be with great discounts, etc. You turned off those discounts. If what you wrote here is meant to be interpreted, then that's it. Now you have to tell me if you turned on all those bonuses or not? Or are these bonuses related to the next legalization, which will be inevitable because, under this law and these amendments and the addition of this law, there is no legalization? There's no end to legalization, you have to understand that. Legalization must be solved with a lex special, with all conditions, ways, procedures, and bonuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52238	The 88th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Sasa Maksimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52239	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS refers to Article 88, which adds Article 5. The amendment proposes to give a deadline of one year for the legalisation of objects built or reconstructed before 11 September 2009, in accordance with this law, taking into account that certain legalisation conditions have changed in relation to the basic law, so that the conditions for legalisation of glass and persons who had previously failed to meet the conditions, or were unable to pay the costs, which have been significantly reduced by this law for certain categories of citizens. It must also be taken seriously into account that the applicable Regulation, which provides for the technical documentation and the content and methods of issuing a building permit and the use of the objects subject to legalisation, entered into force on 13 February 2010, or less than a month before the end of the six-month period of application. Such, inadmissible, by delaying the adoption of the rules, without which no application could be filed, most interested citizens were prevented from collecting documents and submitting requests in good time. Such a proposal for a new deadline is in the best interest of both the citizens and the state, as it is a common goal to settle this issue. This would remove the consequences of obvious law-making failures, since the majority of the reasons for these changes are to remove the ambiguity of the law. In particular, it states: “Articles 78 - 84 of the proposed provisions remove certain ambiguities in the legalisation procedures of the facilities. “ If these provisions were unclear to the legislator, the question arises how can citizens or local self - government manage to do so? Finally, it should be borne in mind that the main culprit for the lawless construction of states is precisely because of these vague and delayed regulations, and is now passing a law that transfers all problems and all damages to the burden of citizens. Certainly, what I have stated is sufficient reason for you to accept the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52240	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to article 89. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been tabled on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group and refers to Article 89(1). The suggestion is to simply delete that attitude. Why? In one sentence, it would read as follows: It is deleted because it is in breach of the provisions of the rules relating to property and property taxes and there is no clear legal provision. This kind of fee is simply something that was inherited from the past, from past times of social property and is insufficiently defined term. Here's an example of practice, i.e. the real situation on the ground. The local administration never defined what it was, not today, and that's why it was applied selectively. The municipalities considered richer were not in charge of that kind of compensation. They didn't want to get into that problem at all because they had other sources of income through taxes. The poor municipalities, on the other hand, were in fact forced to introduce that kind of compensation to try to survive, although they knew there was much undefined. It happened that Serbian citizens were brought into an unequal position because some paid and some did not. We've heard it in previous exhibitions, and you know it well, that it can't, and all citizens are equal by the Constitution, and this example that I'm saying isn't like that. In this law, they cannot be identified anywhere as defined criteria and criteria, and not even the very concept of how, why, and how to regulate and define this area. That is why I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, that Article 89, paragraph 1. The bill is deleted. In general, by not accepting the large number of amendments that the MPs have submitted, the MPs of the SRS, you will come into the situation, and we are just warning you that more and more will become complicated, on the burden of citizens, who will wait two or three years for changes to be made to individual solutions. Our idea was, in fact, to allow a faster procedure and to simplify everything, and thus to help the citizens. I need to remind you of something that I have already spoken on several occasions, of the undefined borders of the Serbian state, of the irregularities in this area and of the cadastrian maps that many municipalities today serve and act on them. These cards were, believe it or not, respected citizens, back in the 19th century, which the people commented and spoke – from the time of Mary Teresa. That's true. In many parts of the field there is no sign of what is drawn in them; there has been a movement of soil, rivers, canals, forests, coves, etc. I'm saying this because I want to point out once again the Municipality of Apatin, where these examples I'm talking about are obvious. I ask you to finally start to solve these big problems, which are later, during the implementation of this law in practice, the introduction of some new systems, I don't know what to call it, because the law cannot identify and define the intention that would solve these problems... So, there's still maps of maps that... (President: Please, you have no more time, but finish your sentence.) ) Here, once again, I urge that these cards that exist from Mary Teresa be changed. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52242	On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52243	My colleague Škrbić gave a slightly wider explanation, and I will continue in that direction. See, paragraph 1 says: “The compensation for the use of construction land is paid in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” See how empty that is? You who have done the proposal of this law have not given any explanation and definition of what compensation means, what it means to use building land, what it is paid to, where time limits are paid, what criteria, criteria, etc. That's what you had to put in that term. If it's a legal rule, then you have to explain to the termist what it means, and all the essential elements of that rule of law. You didn't do it. You allow, under the provisions of Article 2, that the unit of local self-government prescribes closer criteria, criteria, height, manner, payment deadlines for the use of construction land, and may, it says, prescribe them taking into account and the purpose of using the facility. This is unprincipled and against the law, even against the constitution. Why? The fee for using city land must be defined by law and it must be in accordance with the Constitution. The constitutional provision is that all citizens are equal before the law and that all citizens pay according to economic power. You've made it possible here to make no use of construction land in certain municipalities, and you've allowed others to enter. One will pay at enormously high rates, especially in those municipalities that have fewer original incomes, so they use that type of compensation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-22-0.u52244	Time. Thank you. The 89th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your cooperation. We will continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. by discussing the proposal for a social protection law. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records, 65 MPs are present. There's obviously more of us. To see how many of us are in the O.R., please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 85 MPs in the hall, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP Lasslo Varga. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have invited you to attend today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ljiljana Lucic, State Secretary in the ministry, Susan Paunovic, Assistant Minister and Neven Rajkovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the National MPs Gordana Pavnović Milosavljevljevic, Dušanka Plečević, Paja Momčev, Boris Alexic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Sreto Perić, Vjerica Rade, Natasa Jovanović, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Dejan Mirović, Dragan Mirović, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Šarović, Nemija Vojić, Miletić Mihajlović, Zuran Bortić, Zlata Travar Miljević, Bajram Šehović, Bajrović, Donka Banović, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitljević, Nikola Lazić, Milica Markić, Milja Marković, Milić, Miljević, Milet Mijić, Miletić, Miletić, Mirna Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Žović, Mir, Žović. The amendment was written by the MPs: Elizabeth Paunovic, who proposed the addition of new members 108, 109, 110, and joint MPs Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Balint Pastor to Article 82. National MP Bozidar Delic withdrew his signature from the amendments to Articles 19, 73, 82, 85, 87, 93, 103, 104, 112 and 146, which he submitted with a group of MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
