ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56804	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. To determine the number of MPs whose identification cards are present in the parliamentary units of the electronic system, please register in the electronic voting system with your MP card. I find that there are currently 86 parliamentary cards in the electronic system. I ask the MPs to take a look at the identification. The system showed 86, now it shows 84. To unquestionably establish that there is enough in the electronic system, and visually more than 86 MPs are present in the hall. People's MPs earn that they do not believe that there is more to the hall than is present on the e-cards. If the MPs don't believe it, then we have a big problem, because it means we don't see each other. I see you. So there are enough MPs present in the O.R. The electronic system works and the visual system works. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its position 1 that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or any of the authorised representatives, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Varga Laszlo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56805	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to request a notice from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, or the Minister of Finance, on the issue of restitution. I believe that the restitution, or failure to implement the restitution, is one of the biggest unfulfilled promises of all previous democratic governments since 2000 and there is no valid explanation of why it has been avoided for years or decades. On the other hand, the restitution is one of two, three key issues and for obtaining candidate status, i.e. to get a date for the start of negotiations. That's why I want to ask a few questions. Before that, I want to say that, unfortunately, since 2000, various processes have been launched that have had a major impact on the problem of restitution, i.e. not implementing the restitution. In 2001 privatisation was launched, the Rehabilitation Act was later passed, so the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, and in 2008 the Law on Free Action was passed, and later the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, all without a single concept, which, unfortunately, has led to this issue being extremely complicated at the moment. Two weeks ago, a debate was held in the National Assembly on this subject, with the participation of numerous heirs, those whose property was seized in the late 40s or after World War II. Several questions were raised in this public hearing. One of these concerns was the implementation of the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities. One of my questions would refer to that law. Is it true, then, that it corresponds to the fact that, even after the Constitutional Court's decision to challenge the law, it still does not implement the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, and is it true that this is not being implemented so that the government obstructs the appointment of the Director of the Restitution Directorate? If so, then we are looking for an explanation of how it can fit or comply with the rule of law, which is one of the most important criteria for obtaining candidate status, i.e. to get a date for starting negotiations. The next question concerns today, that is, this moment. Is it true that even this time without a unique concept, the first law on public property is planned, and then the law on restitution? I think it would be more complicated already and such an extremely big problem. The last question concerns deadlines. So, within what time does the government plan to deliver the Restitution Act to the National Assembly, that is, the Restitution Act, since, according to the Government Action Plan of December last year, it was designated or established for the adoption of the Restitution Act on 30 June? Since the day after tomorrow will be June 30th, I think the basic question is why and how late is the preparation of this bill, or the bill? What is the most important question is when will this law come to the National Assembly, since it will be of paramount importance whether or not this law is passed in the process of drawing up the opinion of the European Commission on our application for EU membership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56806	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has always been a democratic state and in the old Yugoslavia there is quite a Roma, almost the most Roma in Europe because Serbia has been democratic and respected by minority people and all minority communities living there. We know what's going on in the media these days and in print and printed. It's not Serbia, it's something new. I was born in this Serbia, I didn't experience this as permanent tortures and attacks on the Roma community. I believe that we are historically bound and have always shared historical and good and evil and that we have always been respected by the Serbian people and the Serbian state. No one has the right to do this and produce torture over the Roma community. If this Parliament, if this state has passed a number of positive measures and laws that should be respected and implemented in the hierarchy, from Parliament to the lowest, why do individuals do so? I claim and say that our police are professional, that they work on ethics and morals and respect for all the legal measures they need to represent as police against the citizens. Individuals who want to destabilise and just like this appears in our country, which reduces the value of democracy in our country must absolutely get in their way. I believe that the Ministry and the leadership of this state will do anything, not only to temporarily remove them, but they must be kicked out of police institutions. Everything they've done, they don't deserve to work in the police department of this country. I believe that it will be maximum done to remove such people who do not want the welfare of this state, or the stabilisation of the state, or the democratisation of this state. We must grow together in democracy, in tolerance, and I believe that this is the attitude of both this country and this Parliament and all of us in the institutions of this state. But individuals have always been and always been, but that's why they have to be removed. As MP and president of the Democratic Left of Roma, I demand that all reports of the prosecution be delivered to me by the Ministry of Justice in 2007, what has been done and what the MUP of the Republic of Serbia is doing to remove such people from the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because we must have police who have their own values, which respects human minority rights, which should work under the law and arrest criminals and lead them where they should and process them as provided for by the law and the Constitution of our country. Not on one of the most brutal, believe me, I'm Roma, if it were another nation I'd perform, what I've seen is terrible. That's why, because of that kind of torture, we have to get people like that out of police institutions. I hope the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and the other authorities will do the maximum and remove such people and lead this country on the right path to democratisation, because these are not European values. We keep talking about European values, there are no European values here, but that doesn't mean that they won't be if we remove such people who appear and destabilize. I hope that everything that this country has the right to do will be done to normalise and stabilise the rights of national minorities and all its citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56808	The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56809	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the prime minister of this country, Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic. The specific question is whether Serbia's government will finally allocate enough money for anti-building protection? In fact, we are witnessing these days, on June 24th, in afternoon classes of the Municipality of Luciani, Arile, Ivanjica, were struck by the elemental disasters. A cloud unusual and so far unseen configuration, moving from the west, from the direction of Drina came to the municipality of Luciana and the municipality of Ivanica and caused great material damage. There was a city that was the size of a tennis ball and that many of my fellow citizens didn't remember in their lives. Hundreds of rinks in the municipality have been activated, bus traffic has been partially cut off. The biggest damage was suffered by local communities, seven local communities in the municipality of Luciana and the municipality of Ivanica. The Municipality of Luciani has decided to declare an emergency situation. This decision ordered the competent authorities to make available all available resources, people and mechanisms to assist the citizens of the Municipality of Luciani and the municipality of Ivanica. Commissions have been formed, entire working bodies and have been found to have damaged 604.760,000 dinars on the territory of the municipality of Luciani, 538 million on agricultural cultures, residential and other buildings of 18.800,000 and on local and untegorised routes of 47.960,000 dinars. In addition to the estimated damage to the field commission, reports said most of the affected villages could be very difficult to reach. The people have no electricity, the water has completely destroyed the infrastructure in the municipality of Luciani, the land has been destroyed and without adequate housing conditions is a large number of households in the municipality of Luciani. The elemental disaster affected the area in the area of 6,000 hectares and was broken on construction buildings of over 350,000 creps and 7,300 salons. Since the budget in the Municipality of Luciani for five months in 2011 is planned to be filled, but it is filled with 57% and cannot be available with sufficient resources to help the citizens of Lucian, I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to help the endangered area, i.e. The territory of Ivanjica, Arilla and Luciana. Namely, Serbia's anti-building system, i.e. our anti-urban system reduces the frequency of cities by 20% and the EU average is 50% decreases. In the past year, we had a reduction in anti-building protection funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In Serbia, anti-urban protection, noting, is financed exclusively from the Republic of Serbia's budget and is projected to be 3.5m euros per year, and it is necessary for Serbia's territory to be 10m, according to certain estimates. An additional problem for farmers is that less than 10% of the population is secured in Serbia, i.e. agricultural holdings. It's an extremely small number, but in some ways it's understandable, because it's big investments, and we have so expensive production, and we have uncertain placement and uncertain prices for agricultural products. Farmers from Serbia do not have the means to secure their production, as the country's deputy prime minister cited on several occasions these days as the main reason for all of this. It's not just a lack of blood rockets for chaos that rules in anti-urban protection. The first and primary problem is the lack of communication with neighbors. Opposite protection isn't as expensive as it's supposed to be in this country. The price of a single missile is about 250 euros, and it is also worth it if it is used in a timely manner and fired in a timely manner. The damage suffered by Serbia's cities is estimated at over 40m euros and almost all agricultural crops from both the Niš, Alexinac and the surrounding Užica, Sjenica, Kruševac, Lucana, Ivanjica have been completely destroyed. Many orchards, raspberries, that's where the multimillion-dollar damage... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. The malts were destroyed on average by 95% of their production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56810	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56811	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days I attended Parliament's debate when it was explained that there was money and when some former ministers came out here and gave lectures as much money as you wanted, they just needed to deploy properly. That's why my question is to the prime minister and the finance minister -- why is nothing being done, as far as elementary disasters are concerned, primarily at the rink? The rink that appeared in the settlement of Mramor in Nis has destroyed 17 houses, and 80 houses are currently in an area that will collapse due to the skating of the land that has set off and a whole hill that is moving towards the settlement. Recently, the previous government built 10 houses that were then destroyed. Does it make sense now that people in 17 destroyed objects live in the minors in half the house and wait for the rest of the house to collapse? So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to urgently secure the funds, get the funds to Nis and get this job done. The elemental disaster that occurred cannot be contained by the city of Nis, because there are no funds, and also the locals do not have the means to end it and to prevent the other 80 houses that are in the demolition phase. This slide is about 22 meters deep. They are located in an area of about four kilometers [4 km] and it has to be resolved by one draining, the resolution of wastewaters that occur could also be contained by sewering, since the entire village has septic pits that make the situation much worse. Therefore, if there is money, and these days it has been said that if there will be money for the new agency, what will be discussed today, this life issue of the citizens of a town of Palilu municipality must be resolved and resolved immediately. There is no time to wait here, and therefore I ask you to resolve this problem immediately and to define the funds at the first session of the government to build houses. There is a location where the city will give its location, as it did last time for those 10 houses that were destroyed and built. Therefore, these funds are not large, but they need to be identified immediately and done at the disposal, the settlements do. An examination that has been completed in the previous government and should only be carried out in this project. Also, a similar situation is with Umka, where the Duboka rink has endangered the entire area of Umka and where this government, especially the city of Belgrade, is constantly visiting this problem that is extremely large and some cosmetic things are being solved, there is paint on something, a tree is planted, a park is being taken care of, and a settlement that slides along the Sava and where houses are threatened, where the road is completely threatened by regional road, where the height of the asphalt has come, when it is seen from the Sava River, six meters, the issue has to be resolved and the future highway of Belgrade-South Adriatic is passing there. This is also a very important question. I'd just go up, it's a shame in the 21st century what my colleague used to talk about, that we're discussing a town that kills villages all over Serbia, it's a shame that no one reacted in the area of Luciani, Ivanica, in the Kruševac area, Aryl, where thousands of houses were discovered without any scratches and no one reacted to help the locals cover the houses, at least to preserve the rest of the property that was left. Look at Dubak, Lisa, Wolfie, there's no crep on those facilities. Everything's been discovered and the peasants are waiting for someone who promised them that crack to be delivered and to cover their facilities. In the 21st century, to say that one third of Serbia destroyed the city, it's a shame for this government, a shame for all of us. The new anti-urban protection methods applied by Europe and which has not known about the city for decades have not been applied, and we have all the preconditions for this and the elaborate that has been done to implement it has also been created. They're not big funds, because we have an existing air force that we could use, we have existing airports. So it's got to end. It is a shame today when a municipality in Serbia appears and says – we have anti-urban missiles. (President: five minutes. ) It is a disgrace to this government, a disgrace to Serbia, and therefore I ask you to deal with these problems urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56812	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56813	Today, on June 28th, Vidovdan, the date that Serbia and the Serbian people mark as one of the most significant in their history, as a reference to the date when the Serb army fought one of the greatest battles in its history against the Turkish Empire, in Gazastan in 1389. After the battle, which historians say the Serbian army lost most of its own and vast people, five centuries of slavery lies under the Turkish Empire, in which many crimes were committed, baptized people, kidnapped children, people impaled and everything seemed to destroy Serbia and the Serbian people. After four centuries of slavery in 1804, Karadjordje and his rebels and princes raised the first Serbian uprising, as a wish that after four centuries of torture and slavery, the Serb people finally freed themselves from the Zulu that made up the Turkish Empire. One of the greatest battles fought in the first Serbian uprising was the Battle of Cegra, near Nis, led by Serbian Duke Stevan Sidelic with his brave residents and ended by the brave duke, realizing he could not fight his small army against many more powerful Turkish soldiers, shot at a gunpowder warehouse, killing thousands of Serb fighters, but also a huge number of Turkish soldiers. The outcome of the battle was that more than 4,000 Serb rebels were eventually killed by more than 16,000 Turkish soldiers. In retaliation over the act and major Turkish losses, the Turkish Pasha then ordered that the heads of Serb rebels be cut off and that the famous, in the world, be built a unique building, so-called. The tower cell with 952 skulls of Serb rebels, including the skull of Serbian Duke Stevan Sidelic. On May 31st of this year, in Nis, on the 202th anniversary of the Battle of Cegra, Serbian President Boris Tadic stayed, but had no time to visit the site and to lay his crown on the dead heroes for freedom. A few days ago, the only daily newspaper south of Belgrade came up with the following title: "History as a cause for Serbia-Turkey's co-operation, a Serbian-Turkish hero centre", which says a centre on the Cegra will be built that will finance Turkey as well. The idea of building a memorial centre was also supported by Turkey's new ambassador, so we believe it will be realised to the general satisfaction. The documentation project will also be presented to Turkey's embassies, and will also be presented to the public after the consensus. I question the prime minister of this country and the authorities whose idea is in fact to build this memorial centre, and what is this message that reads as the "Serbian-Turkish Hero Centre"? Is it possible that the state of Serbia does not want or does not have enough funds to build a centre to thank the dead heroes, but Turkey, which was on the other hand, should be included, and does this mean an audit of the history in which the victims, submitted by the Serb people and the famous Duke Sidelic, are equally occupied for more than five centuries and have committed unprecedented atrocities in Serbia? What kind of message is being sent today, and are we going to review history, now are we going to start with the idea that maybe we're building Serbian-German hero centers, or are we going to ask that some Turkish skulls be installed in the Celle Tower to even it all out? This is an unprecedented shame that is happening today in Serbia. I call upon the Prime Minister to answer the question of what kind of message we're sending. There have been examples in Serbian history that Serbs have been raising the markings of missing enemy soldiers in certain battles, but it has never been in history that the struggle for freedom is equated with an occupier who has committed unprecedented evils in his history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56814	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56815	I will use the right of Article 286 to re-launch the question of double-indemnity of entrepreneurs' families in a case that was launched in half of 2010, with the government asking whether the finance minister, Mr Cvetkovic, in agreement with the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, will finally fulfil the promise made in negotiations at the time of the adoption of a social agreement between the government of Serbia, the Union of Employers and Syndicates, when one member of the agreement, the Serbian Government committed that there would be a misunderstanding or dispute for the benefit of maternity entrepreneurs? Against this kind of treatment by the Tax Administration, which holds that the only one is right, performs, acts and tries to solve about 30 women's organisations, the Union of Employers, the media and finally the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, has been involved in solving this problem, noting that the Tax Administration violates the rights of maternity entrepreneurs. It's terrible, but the fact is that the IRS doesn't even act on this recommendation from the Citizens' Protector, and in one very unusual explanation, it turns out that none of those who have any objection to this are right, except the IRS. Today is the courage to be an entrepreneur. Today is the courage to be a mother. I don't see any reason why we don't give them a positive interpretation of the legal rules here and a brave and honorable duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56816	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Milovan Radovanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although it has already been said about this subject, I find this abject natural event worth saying another word. The whole public is already known for the fact that on Friday, in the early afternoon and late evening hours, there was an elemental accident in which rain and the city, followed by very strong storm winds, in certain parts of central and western Serbia, in the municipalities of Arlje, Kraljevo, Ivanjica, Aleksinac, Kruševac and other municipalities, caused huge material damage estimated at around 50-60m euros. We shouldn't forget about the League that died from the flood 15 days ago. Fruit trees, cereals, vegetables, housing, roads and vehicles have been destroyed. For example, 50% of the raspberries have been destroyed in Ariel, and the damage has been estimated at around 10m euros. From the day of the elementary accident, from June 24th on Friday night, until this morning there was no electricity in the municipality of Alexine. They said it would be more regular power supplies from today. Public infrastructure, roads, residential and business space has been destroyed. There is great damage to the increased maintenance of hygiene and greenery, public and private facilities, agricultural areas at about 15,000 hectares. In Aleksinac, damage is estimated to have been caused by this elemental disaster of about a billion and 60,000 dinars. On Sunday, June 26th, locals blocked the road of the village of Donji Gadrovec, and on Monday, June 27th, the citizens of Žitkovec also blocked the road, dissatisfied with the state's intervention, probably someone else. Given that NATO, the North-Atlantic military alliance, has largely restricted, banned the use of anti-urban missiles, almost whatever is missing, you in the Serbian government couldn't or could not have changed anything. At the Vinca Institute, they knew the possible consequences. The anti-grader stations on average had 1 to 4 rockets that were mostly used, and they need to have at least 14 rockets per station at all times. Who's to blame for this condition? If the rocket had not been enough in this case, Predrag Maric, deputy minister of emergency situations, said the state should acquire 15,000 missiles. For when? Is it possible for St. Sava? It is known a few years ago that the rain was falling on January 27th. Always a late state with intervention. Or, with 60 anti-urban stations, Predrag Maric also said, 140 missiles were fired. Not three per station, which is really not enough. Since for these reasons there could be no prevention or mitigation of the consequences of the natural disaster on June 24th of the current year, I ask the Serbian Government if it plans to compensate the citizens who have suffered the damage, unlike one government member, who says it was necessary for everyone to secure their property and from the insurance company to collect the damage? It is a statement that is not acceptable to citizens who have suffered damage. Is the government finally planning to build a system of anti-building defense? I appeal to the Serbian government to make as fair as possible compensation for the damage suffered on 24 June by the elemental accident, rain, city and stormy wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56818	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word, to exercise their right under Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next Members of the People: the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic and the People's Messenger Đuro Peric. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Snezana Samardzic-Marković, youth and sports ministers, to attend: Ivana Kovacevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Snezana Klasna, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports, Borisvoj Janković, Head of the Department for Strategic, Normal and Business International Youth Cooperation in the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Dragan Glisic, Head of Staff Management and Harmonisation of Interior Units at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the principle search on the 1st point of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE YOUTH LAW. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Youth and Sports, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of MPs, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Wojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Before I inform the National Assembly of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I ask the National Assembly to inform the representatives of the Government, who are at the board's session, to come to the National Assembly's meeting room. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Nikola Krpić, MP Elvira Kovac – Parliament Group of Manjina, MP Djordje Milicevic – MP group SPS-JS, MP Aleksandar Pejčić – Parliamentary group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Željko Ivanji – MP group of the URS (G17 plus and ZZ), MP Lidija Dimitrijevic – MP group of SRS, MP Milan Vukković – MP group of ZES. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. (10.49 hours) Before I give my word to the proposing representatives, Minister Snezani Samardzic-Markovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, and we will open a general debate on the common principle of the agenda points following the 1st item of the agenda. If there is an amendment, as it is an agreement for the government's representatives to arrive, the MPs will be informed on time. For now, this is a work plan for today. We will open a joint principle search and start a debate on the points in the joint search, and after point 1. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Samardzic-Markovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56819	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the only general consensus that we have as individuals, and as a society, and as a state, which is still going on regardless of the social, economic and political framework, is that young people who make us work and fight to make the present as good as possible, and to create conditions for the future to be more advanced in any way or at least not to be burdened with the mistakes of the past. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia only 20% of the population are young, i.e. persons who are 15-30 years old. It's estimated to be a smaller number. Estimates say that in the Republic of Serbia in 2050, compared to the general population, only about 18% of young people will be. Studies show that Europe is also facing a continuous decline in the number of young people compared to the general population. The Youth Act is a fundamental framework to enable young people to participate actively in society and create conditions for building and improving their potential. The law enables and recognises the affirmative organisation of young people and creates conditions for financing youth activities, disrupts and provides as much active participation as possible for young people in society. This law was passed through an extremely broad and consulting process, whose main actors were just young. When the law was made, it came from the idea that it must primarily be a product of the needs of young people today and that it is the young who should play a crucial role in making it. It is an obligation for the ministry, within its competences, to recognise and regulate those needs as normally as possible. We've defined ourselves for this longer and harder way to make the law, knowing that it gives better results. The consultation of those to whom the law will apply is part of the system of values we want to establish in Serbia. In addition, this kind of work helps build the confidence of young people in institutions. If there is no trust of young people in institutions that represent them, then normally, young people are not active, do not participate in these institutions and, of course, do not see that space for their future. Accordingly, for law-making purposes, the ministry has formed a special advisory process. We were able to decide that a certain smaller group of qualified people would create text and draft laws, and then give it to a public debate. It's a good and common way to make laws. However, we decided to ask only young people first and foremost – what is it that they want to be in their law, provisions and to ask them how they imagine that the law that regulates their status is formulated. What did we get in that way? We have been given a practical opportunity to make the aspirations of young people clear and loud and to face legal obligations in some sense, so if I can say so, and the limitations of the system and to find a real compromise between what wishes, objective desires and needs of young people, and what are real and current opportunities in our institutions. We organised practically three rounds of consultation in the context of a public debate. First, a working group was composed of representatives of the ministry, the civil sector and legal experts and was then formed a wider constitutive group that participated in all phases of lawmaking. These three constitutive processes were carried out by taking place in the first phase through local offices for young 45 round tables, which included about 1,500 young people from youth organisations and local institutions. When these 1,500 young people articulated their needs, the first working text of the law was created with an analysis of domestic and European legislation and what it is to adapt to the current situation. In the second phase of the constitutional process, 29 round tables were held in Serbia's districts. The young people pleaded on this first working text of the law, and after that statement a draft law on young people was drawn up. As the third phase, a public hearing programme opened between 29 November and 18 December 2010 through six round tables. Given all the above, the concept of youth law is based on a few things. First, defining the framework and conditions for supporting young people in organisation, social functioning, development and achievement of potential; then, defining the pyramidal structure of the youth sector at both national and non-governmental level; then, affirmation of the autonomy of youth associations, youth associations and alliances whose objectives and areas of action are targeted at young people; then, establishing a system of monitoring the youth sector and youth sector information system in the Republic of Serbia; then, setting up advice for young people, improving professional work in the youth sector, defining a consistent and transparent financing system in the areas of the youth sector from public incomes, such as the budget of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous landscapes, units of local self-government and establishing control of funds, as well as establishing the basis for the implementation of the national strategy for the implementation of young people. The basic provisions of the law regulate the subject matter of a law that represents a set of measures and activities aimed at improving the social position of young people. These measures are being taken by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government. The aim of the law, which has been defined as creating conditions to support young people in organisation, social functioning, development and achievement, has then been defined. A defined youth policy and the youth sector, with youth policy representing a total of all measures and activities of state bodies, institutions, associations and other entities aimed at improving and improving the position of young people, while the youth sector covers all areas where youth activities are carried out and defined by the general objectives of the National Youth Strategy. In addition, the law prescribes the basic principles on which it is based. I care about these principles to point out that they are important in defining the relationship of society with young people, but they are equally important for the relationship of young people to their own environment because this relationship is two-way. Only in this way can trust institutions and the proactive attitude of young people towards institutions be restored. The Youth Act recognises associations that carry out youth activities. Without the prospect of jeopardizing the autonomy of the arrangement of internal relations within the framework of freedom of association, with the aim of making the specificities of this type of association adequate and comprehensively recognised, the law on youth is a precise general regime in this area. For example, it is prescribed to establish associations that carry out youth activities and can be on the one hand of youth associations and youth associations. Youth associations differ the most that their membership is made up of at least two thirds of young people and their goals are directed at young people. On the other hand, youth associations. They represent any other association that is included in the register, whose objectives or areas of achievement, in addition, are directed at young people. Both youth associations and youth associations shall be registered in the register of the association run by the competent authority, in accordance with the law. In addition, the youth law recognizes the so - called so - called “young people. ” informal youth association, as well as associations of youth associations and youth associations within which the so-called question is regulated. roof alliances. Furthermore, the youth law introduces a unique record of the aforementioned associations and alliances, with the aim of keeping the situation in the youth sector organised and systemically monitored and to ensure true implementation of youth policy because its normisation is only a prerequisite, while implementation is a realistic implementation of youth policy a condition of efficiency and the quality of this policy. Also, since it is one of the basic objectives of this law to provide systemic care for young people, the law prescribes that advice for young people be educated as an advisory body. In doing so, the Youth Council shall consist of representatives of the Authority of the State Administration in which the areas of interest for young people, regional authorities of the administration, associations and alliances carry out youth activities, then local offices for young people, as well as respected experts. In addition, in order to strengthen the role of young people, it is prescribed that their representatives form at least one third of the membership of the boards of the alliances carrying out youth activities. In addition to all the above, the law opens the possibility, not the obligation, to establish this type of advice at lower levels of government, at the province and at the level of units of local self-government. Furthermore, as the existence of a youth office at the level of units of local self-government today is undeniable, as well as their role and importance for the youth sector area, the law stipulates that units of local self-government can, within the framework of their powers, be able to set up offices for young people financed from the budget of local self-government units, as well as from other sources, in accordance with the law. Their activities are realised on the basis of local action plans for young people being adopted within the framework of the National Strategy. In fact, the aim of the Youth Act is to give the practical existence of the Youth Office a sustainable institutional framework. I will remind you, when the ministry was formed on 15 May 2007, there were only five local offices for young people in Serbia, and there are 123 of them now, as this clearly shows the need for fostering youth policy and at local level. Also, it is an opportunity to say that 107 local youth action plans have been adopted at the level of these municipalities. Also, the youth law has prescribed that the agency be educated as a special body for implementing European programmes for young people, of course, in accordance with a special law. In addition, this law defines what public interest is in the areas of the youth sector and funding programmes and projects of public interest. The law stipulates which programmes and projects of public interest in the areas of the youth sector are provided with funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. what is considered to be the needs and interests of young people who meet in the autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and how the selection of programmes or projects to be financed from public revenues is done. Since funding and co-financing of programmes and projects in the youth sector is in fact a process of budget allocation, this law decidently prescribes rules for each of the phases monitored by this process. Thus, the law lays down conditions for funding, co-financing and implementation of programmes and projects, as well as sanctions if programme and project holders do not comply with the rules laid down for the implementation of this process. In conclusion, this law, which primarily aims to make young people's lives better, more acceptable, more affirmative, more meaningful, more meaningful, as well. It is precisely from the engagement of young people, how much and how they develop, how much and where their potentials are engaged, that depends largely on the development of a country today, but also its perspective and prosperity tomorrow. The adoption of this law is, in addition to the national strategy for young people, the foundation of institutional care for young people who are indisputably Serbia's most valuable potential. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me, at the end of this exhibition, express my warmest gratitude to all those who participated in the process of making youth laws, and as you have heard, he was a very broadly constructive process and I am using the opportunity to especially thank those committees who, together with us, had discussed this law today, and to thank the particularly working group on children's rights to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who actively participated in the process of producing the practical work text of the Youth Act and to thank my parent committee, the Youth Committee and sport whose president also participated in the process of making the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56820	Before we continue the work of notification of authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Namely, the mandated representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Zlata Djeric, and the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, MP Borislav Pelevic, not by deliberate osmak, have not been read at the same time with the other authorised representatives, I apologize to you, but it will not interfere with the work of the session in which we are taking part. Does the rapporteur of the Youth Committee and Sports MP Milan Vukkovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, we move to a part of the session in which the right to speak is used by the president or by authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, as a rule from the smallest to the greatest. National MP Nikola Krpić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56821	Honored chairman, distinguished Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, the respected presidency. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Youth Act is contained in Article 97 point 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we are considering the Bill on Youth, and in the International Year of Youth, just to remind ourselves that on 12 August 2010, by 12 August 2011, the UN Assembly was declared as early as 2009 and adopted Resolution 64134 and, as I said, declared the above-mentioned period for the International Year of Youth. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted this proposal on 12 May 2011. The PUPS invites all MPs to join a greater concern for young people, to give them every support because your age of youth, you have our vote as well. What do young people expect from us, one million and five hundred or 20% of the population aged 15 to 30? They're expecting a lot. By passing the Youth Act, we demand that this priority be above all other priorities and that, in line with these priorities, the social gathering of youth, according to many sections and societies, be of particular interest to them, but also to the social community. We suggest that more accounts be taken of the impact of written, electronic media on the awareness and behavior of young people and their attitude. The PUPS believes that it is one of the basic problems young people have, improving the education system and greater concern of society in general towards them. We are in favour of establishing the Youth Parliament as well as the student parliament and we are in favour of improving their rights that they do not have today. Ensuring the building of spaces where youth organizations and youth gatherings would take place, but it has some rights and obligations to the social community. Of course, financial resources are needed for all the above. In the bill, we say that funds are provided from the budget, and the budget should always have them for youth, and many times there are not enough. I'm sorry, today I have to notice that the population of young people and students aged 15 to 30, today responsiblely I say there is no well-security of medical and dental protection. The student parliament of Serbia and Belgrade addressed our PUPS parliamentary group on the issue. We consider and propose that young people be built up as soon as possible of suitable sports courts and swimming pools and sports halls in schools, because without such facilities and physical education we do not have a healthy population and we will not have it. Physical and health education introduce and seek universityly in secondary and student education, not declaratively but seriously with several classes of teaching. Take a look at Serbia's demographic picture, regional differences in the world and regional differences shown by insufficient and excessive birth and migration and emigration, as well as a number of other conflicting demographic processes that condition division and say that demographic challenges are not the same for all societies. It is obvious that while some face the burning problems of population growth, other small peoples, including ourselves, are considering the problems of their survival. We often wonder what our country's demographic future is, most likely demographics are predicting, and the minister mentioned earlier that in 2050, we will be smaller by 500,000 residents, or Serbia will shrink to six million and 300,000 inhabitants. The level of reproduction depends on the survival of society and its demographic potential, which is one of the country's basic objectives of demographic development, reaching the level of simple population renewal. How? If youngsters, if young people and young people are not given enough attention, this cannot be achieved. We know that the country of Serbia, the country of emigration and brain drains affecting the economic and social development of the countries of queens and countries of destinations. The programme is globally maintained in the fact that this outflow of the educational population, and above all young populations slows down the transition of economy and society. It's important today that we know what we're doing and never lose sight of this problem. We want to encourage their psycho-physical development, integration in all the social spheres in which they live, and we want them to take full responsibility for their own development and their position in society as a whole. It is stated that the aim of the law is to create conditions for support for young people, organisation, social functioning, development and achievement of potential for personal and social well-being. Young people aged 15 to 30 are defined as young people, and it is envisaged to adopt a national strategy for young people to regulate the active participation of young people in social life, encourage their education, stimulate employment, youth entrepreneurship and others. The strategy would bring the government for a period of more than six years. The law should provide for the existence of an association of young people and youth associations, which has been done. The first type of defined societies whose objectives are aimed at young people and in which at least two-thirds of membership are young, and the other are among the associations whose objectives besides others are directed at young people. These associations can join alliances. The association's union records will be conducted by the competent ministry, completely fine. The government will educate special councils and offices for young people, and local self-government units can do so. Special funds to finance these youth-related programmes will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It will be implemented through funding activities and projects, which will be submitted by youth associations, local self-government and scientific research institutes, especially through the Youth Fund. Similar rules are prescribed for the authorities of territorial, autonomy units of local self-government. What's the quality of the law? It does not particularly highlight age specificities, but it does not conflict with the principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child with its neutral attitude. On the contrary, it affirms the principle of non-discrimination and supports the institutional framework for the participation of children and young people. All young people are treated as equals, without giving priority to causal, gender or socially endangered youth groups in any segment. It recognises and introduces the terms of informal education and youth work, which are significant development components for the implementation of youth policy. The adoption of youth law is a tendency for many European countries, and the institutional mechanisms proposed are based on an analysis of the application of youth policy, primarily in European countries. The law does not go into domains that are in the jurisdiction of other sectors, but focuses primarily on that segment of youth policy, which other laws are not regulated and contained and are limited. A positive experience of others and a better evaluation and organisation of the social community and youth not to understand any loss, or injustice, or negligence and carelessness of the social community, but to be satisfied with the relationship between this community and this society towards youth. Therefore, the PUPS adopts this bill fully in its composition, but we also propose the following - a legislative reform that treats this area, reforming the judicial and administrative system that will allow the use of legal means to exercise the rights of youth societies, the allocation of specific funds from the budget intended for youth, the establishment of new integrations and the capacity of a new, special body at the Serbian government level. Whether it's called a council, or a youth office, it's all one thing for us. Bringing and adopting a national youth action plan, with an emphasis on employment rights, education, treatment and others. State support and co-operation with local, regional, national and international organisations dealing with youth rights is open to discussion with young people and their needs and topics of interest. For example, health education, drug abuse, alcoholism, sports, in short on life. For all these reasons, the adoption of this bill will be of exceptional benefit. Dear President-in-Office, distinguished youth and sports ministers, I can assure you that in the day of the vote, PUPS MPs will be on the side of the youth, and for this law they will give their vote because the youth is the future of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56822	Ten minutes and 30 seconds used by an authorised representative. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56823	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SVM and the Manjin Parliament Club, I would really like to highlight and praise the fact that this is one of the few draft laws that has been passed thanks to the very long consultation process in which we have all been involved. Personally, first as someone at a bar in Zrenjanin, there is an office for the communication of MPs with citizens, I was invited to one of the public debates, round tables. Later, as a representative of our very active task force for the first child. I think that here today we will all agree that the adoption of the Youth Law is really necessary and that this need was recognised a few years ago when the same ministry also worked very actively to adopt the National Youth Strategy. Back then, when I was young, I took part in these processes. Finally, a National Strategy was brought in this year, although I personally do not like these documents when we are just talking to them, and in the field they may not feel their application. What is interesting and what I would like to point out at the outset that this bill is really based on European values and is based on harmonisation of the legal system with the EU. It's interesting that we're one of the few states, sixth or seventh, I think we're the sixth one to pass a special law on young people. On the one hand, it is commendable, because it only proves the good will and desire of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to emphasize how important young people are to us. It can be negative, because when you pass a roof law, it's pretty abstract, general, and maybe it's missing things. It is certainly important to talk about this issue, because I think in the past few years we have talked very little about these people, young people, we are talking about marginalized groups, about women more and more, about young people, we are not enough in this House. The SVM was, as a party, after all these consulting processes, when the bill was already in the process and we were expecting a debate, organised, I wouldn't call it a public debate, I imagined it more as informal association with young people, members of the Hungarian national community. NGOs were invited, as well as the Committee on Youth of the National Council of Hungarians, to study this text. Some of them saw him, and some of them didn't want us to form comments together and write amendments. After these consultations, we have formulated three amendments, and we hope that the minister's hearing will be heard. I'm going to use this time to mention the amendments, and I hope that the associates will look at it for the next few days. The first complaint specifically by the National Minority Councils is that at the very beginning of the law in Article 3rd century 1 where youth policy entities are defined, means, RS, AP, local self-government units as youth policy holders and as well as institutions, youth activities associations and other entities involved in the implementation of youth policy. We believe that it is necessary to add, after listing the RS, AP, local self-government and – national councils of national minorities – because some think that national councils of national minorities deal exclusively with issues such as education, culture, official use of language and letter and information. For example, the National Council of Hungarians also has a Committee on Youth, which is a very active and significant institution of youth policy. Yesterday, I was informed that others from a year ago formed national councils have committees for youth. On the other hand, the principles on which the law is based, the principle of support for young people, equality and prohibition of discrimination are indeed very important, equal opportunities, strengthening awareness of the importance of young people in society and their overall social role, active participation of young people, as well as the responsibilities and solidarity of young people. All these principles are significant, but we don't think they're designed enough. We certainly support the law, but it's always the problem that the roof law can't be more detailed and it can't be very detailed, but we think these principles might have been more detailed. Our second amendment refers to a member who defines what is regulated by the National Youth Strategy. He's a very well-formed member. We would add – the value of tolerance and democracy. The value of tolerance that is significant, especially in multinational and multicultural environments, as well as in a world full of diversity, and the value of democracy as basic European values and values in our society. I don't think I have to explain. Although our last amendment, MP SVM, refers to a member who defines and who also presented the minister, who enters the Youth Council as an advisory body. It's very similar to the last one. In addition to the representatives of the public administration, in which the area of interest for young people, the regional authority of the administration responsible for the question of youth and associations, the alliances, the offices for young people and prominent experts, we would like to add national councils of national minorities, precisely because of the previously highlighted fact that some national councils already have committees for youth, which I consider to be extremely important factors of youth policy, especially among members of national minorities. We believe that these proposed amendments are in line with European values and that their adoption would even strengthen the principle of equality of the prohibition of discrimination, and otherwise we believe that the adoption of this law would show a good will to take care of young people and to get a relatively modern European law. Of course, there is always a question to what extent this law will be applied, they say to skeptics, because the National Assembly, especially in the last two or three years, has really passed very high-quality laws, but we have a problem with our control role and application in practice is a bigger problem. To what extent this law will apply, that practice will show. It is skeptical that it will be financed, both by the central government and the AP and local self-government, because without adequate funding, a general goal will not be achieved which is why the law is passed. Since time allows, let me say a few things for the public. The public is weakly monitoring the work of our MPs, all of us, as well as our delegations in international bodies, but it is very important next thing, since it is closely related to this topic. Last week, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held a summer session in Strasbourg, and this session was dedicated mainly to the rights and particularly to few women and more young people and young people. In addition to a very interesting report with a proposal to reduce the vote to 16 years, on the last day of the June 24th session, the CoE Parliamentary Assembly adopted a report on the subject of a possible framework European Convention on Youth Rights. I have been the rapporteur of the CoE Parliamentary Assembly on this subject, because in the last year or two I have worked very hard with young people from all over Europe and there I have stressed that I am very happy that now, when I come home from Strasbourg to Belgrade, we will have a young law on the agenda as one of the few, sixth countries that adopts a special youth law. I would like to stress that the aim of this report, which adopted the plenary, which was drawn up by the Committee on Culture, Education and Science of the SE Parliamentary Assembly, is in fact to approach young people and their rights, which rights they enjoy, which are the existing mechanisms for protecting their rights, which are the problems that arise in practice. Certain solutions have been proposed that young people can overcome these problems. We've had a lot of discussion about the definition of what youth rights are. I would simply define that the rights of young people are the rights that allow and facilitate young people to overcome the period between childhood and adulthood during the period of transition between childhood. The main objective of this report in the CoE Parliamentary Assembly was to recognise the rights of young people. Young people have a lot of rights guaranteed by general mechanisms, but the main goal is to improve the participation of this law on the agenda, means to improve participation and social engagement of young people and to draw attention to the adequate challenges that young people between 15 and 30 years of age face and show that concrete political support is given to young people. Because I personally and all of us at the SVM and at the Manjin Parliament Club feel that every country is obliged to guarantee and protect the rights of young people, of course, according to their age. I tried to compare a little bit what was done in Europe, in 47 SE member states and what is missing in this bill and what I think is a little bit missing, and of course, it may have been impossible to put it into law and I don't even know what it would look like, but it asks the public, the journalists ask – they say that the future youth law has been pictured as a proposal that has concrete themes. So, specific youth problems: huge unemployment among young people, education problems, etc. Of course, the roof law cannot offer adequate solutions and this should be resolved legally or through good laws of a particular topic, but I can’t help but mention that I consider that one of the basic problems that young people face and from which everyone else comes is perhaps still an inadequate education system. The SVM advocates the mobility of young people. The huge problem faced especially by members of the national minorities is the problem with the nostrification of diplomas. I must stress that it is necessary to ensure as easy and as cheap a nostrification as possible, that all acquired knowledge and professional qualifications that young people acquire wherever they are recognised throughout Europe but, of course, to be recognized in Serbia as well. The problem with the education system is the second biggest problem, which is the problem of huge unemployment. Unfortunately, the current situation in Serbia we all know about the unemployed, but the devastating fact is that unemployment among young people, from 15, 18 to 30, is even higher than among others. One of the basic problems that young people complain about, even those who are highly educated, have completed colleges, is that they wait for a very long period of time for work and then everyone asks them for experience and that they do not have a chance to get to that work experience. That's why their period, so-called. transitions from education system to employment are not linear, it is very difficult. It is extremely difficult for young people to enter the labour market and what they all face is that, out of despair or out of the need to gain any work experience, they often have to volunteer, so they work, without getting any money or getting very low wages. The third thing that is a huge problem in Europe, and even with us, we don't even talk about it enough, is that young people also have the right to a quality and affordable home, that as soon as possible they are left alone from their parents, but also across Europe, the interesting fact that the border is already rising today is now 30, 32 or 34 years old, when young people have the opportunity to actually buy their own house, their own apartment, their own home. What we once talked about in the National Assembly at a public debate, and unfortunately there were no adequate steps afterwards, and hopefully in the future we won't forget it, is that when we talk about education, health education is something that is important and that should also be entered into the school program. Of course, there are arguments for and against, whether reproductive health is and in what form, but I think that's very important for this population that we're talking about today. In order for young people to understand their rights but also to accept the responsibilities arising from their rights, it is very important to allow their effective participation in social life and decision making. I believe their adequate participation is a fundamental factor in ensuring social cohesion and the functioning of democracy. What is missing, and I am very happy to hear what we are talking about today is to raise awareness of the public and make decisions about the importance of young people in our country. Of course, everyone says that young people are our future and that they are the key factor of our society, but nothing seems concrete in that field. On the other hand, maybe they don't know enough about their rights, and because of that, we should work to further strengthen them, so that they can really enjoy their rights. I would like to point out once again that by putting the Bill on the agenda of Youth, which we will vote in two weeks' time, we hope for a new roof law on young people, we show the will and effort to improve, facilitate the lives of young people and show how important they are to us, of course, here today will mention several times which are the basic objectives of adopting this law, which we support is building the potential of young people and building an influential framework for this active participation of the community. What is also important and what the minister mentioned in the opening statement is that this bill shows the importance of the civil sector and the association, just as informal flus of young people, and thanks to this more will be included and activated in social flows, what I am extremely happy about, I know that there has been a struggle and a proposal on all sides to enter this proposal and the notion of informal education, which has never been, and young people say that they are naturally on the ground, because everyone participates in some kind of informal education, acquires various skills and knowledge, and then no one recognizes it or accepts it. Of course, the definition of youthful work is very good. The bill affirms the principle of non-discrimination and supports the institutional framework for participation of children and young people. Since my time is running out, I'd like to highlight two more things. I read yesterday that it is interesting that in BiH, the government of the Republic of Serbia reports annually to its parliament on the position of young people with proposals for future measures how we can improve the lives of young people and I think it is not a bad idea and that perhaps the Government of the Republic of Serbia could also deliver such reports to us. At least it's interesting to keep an eye on the situation on the ground. What I still wanted to mention is significant, in this bill it is stressed that the AP budget funds the conditions for the development of an action plan for young people, encouraging young people to participate actively, so in social flows, what all AP can finance, and here it is emphasized that the AP will finance it, and I'm just asking myself what money it is, because we know that the province's authority in charge of sport and youth never has enough money for these projects, regardless of the various announcements, and the Law on the financing of AP Vojvodina, and the Law on Public Property still does not have, and we hope that they will arrive soon, that Vojvodina does not depend solely on the money it receives from the state. In voting day, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56824	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56825	Dear Mrs Comic, respected Mrs Samardzic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as it is said, the Youth Act should be one step further and one step forward when it comes to the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the national youth strategy for the period 2009 to 2014. It is true that there are no mechanisms in Serbia today for the active participation of young people in making important decisions both in local self-government units and in state administration. Certain issues that are important for young people in Serbia are regulated by certain laws, through several laws, but there are areas of importance for young people, which are not regulated legally. It is true that young people belong to a sensitive group that needs exceptional support, and in order to be involved in social flows in a certain way and to create conditions, as you said in your opening statement, for the full development of the potential of young people in Serbia. With regard to the fact that Serbia faces a continuing decline in the number of young people in the general population, we believe that it is our common task, i.e. to be investment in young people, to create an ambience and atmosphere that will allow for the best quality of life in Serbia, to keep young people in Serbia after school, because young people are a driving force and a basis for the overall development of a society. The SPS-JS Parliament Club in principle supports this legislative proposal and, by supporting this legislative proposal, we want, above all, to support the goal, which is to achieve its adoption, which is to create and develop a mechanism for greater inclusion of young people in decision making that concerns young people in Serbia. We want to believe that this proposal will be a good basis for, as stated in the interpretation of the legislative proposal, the systematic care of the institutions about young people and when it comes to education and when it comes to the functioning and realisation of personal potentials. It is therefore important to define the general interest when young people are concerned, and this proposal should create an obligation for young people to be consulted when important strategic documents are made, important for young people, when important decisions are made that are of interest to young people in Serbia. So to create an obligation for the state to encourage young people to engage in social flows and to support, as is said, their associations and volunteer activities, which is of paramount importance. It is therefore important that, when it comes to the Bill on Youth, at least as far as we could understand, young people have been directed throughout the whole process of making this bill from the very beginning to the end, because these laws are the most tailored to ask about solutions, to give suggestions and suggestions on solutions that will affect the realisation of the objectives we are talking about today, about the Bill on Youth. I also want to say that it is very important, as far as we could hear in the opening presentation, a broad quality public debate was held and that many suggestions were taken into consideration when writing the text of the draft law. I say, it is good that the young people were involved in the whole process of drafting the law, but it is even more important that now after the debate in principle, after the debate in particular, after the adoption of this important legislative proposal, young people in Serbia realize that the law is not just a dead letter on paper. So, after the law is passed, that is, the legislative proposal we will try to implement more in practice today in Serbia. This legislative proposal shows that Serbia is ready to meet the needs of young people in Serbia, on the one hand, to monitor the needs of young people today in Serbia, and on the other hand, in line with the principles to regulate this important area for us, as it has been done in EU countries. It is good that we are the sixth or seventh country that has, or will have, a law on young people. Among other things, when it comes to compliance with EU standards and principles, it should be said that full implementation of the EU youth programme, Serbia needs a young people's agency that has all European countries. It is true that youth associations, you said, lack a roof organization, which would represent the interests of young people at national level in order to better and better quality mutual co-operation. So, this proposal creates a legal basis for setting up an office for young people, and the law also provides for the creation of a roof office. We support the idea, we support the goal, but quite clearly and completely precisely I want to say, and when it comes to the youth agency, nor the youth office, there must be no room for party employment, for political marketing, for political campaigns, because then they would absolutely deprive and defecate an idea that has an exceptional importance for young people in Serbia. We need to think about how to strengthen local offices, because not every local self-government in an adequate way, I think, recognizes the importance of the youth office. Volunteer work is not sustainable in the long term and over a longer period of time. But, on the other hand, what we expect are results, we expect a work report and we expect offices not to open pro-forms, but to have, as I said, results. I think it is important that, when we talk about the competitions planned by the ministry, yesterday it was said in the resolution committee of the Republic of Parliament, the next competitions also include the part relating to training young people to write projects, so that later on they can use EU funds that we hope will be very quickly available and very quickly available. I want to point out one more segment when it comes to this bill, and it concerns young talent. In fact, it seems to me to me that the 20th of this legislative proposal provides for their award and scholarship to be, for the first time, considered a general interest, which is of great importance. Of course, considering the analysis that has been given in the light of this legislative proposal, what concerns and, unfortunately, it is quite clear, the biggest problem of youth at the moment is the issue of unemployment. The question arises whether this bill could have treated this issue in any way or to offer, I know it's difficult, some basis for solving and this problem? This proposal could, in our opinion, also contain provisions concerning this matter, but it was already about protecting young people from the protection of the sale of alcohol, the disease of addiction, to the protection of the media, which colleagues were already talking about, as is the case in Germany, when it comes to the Youth Law, where the whole law applies to the protection of young people. What may still be missing, in our opinion, in addition to creating a stimulating environment for the development and improvement of youth positions, is a clearer and more precise determination and definition of the rights and obligations of youth policy entities and, on the other hand, the state. When it comes to the criteria for the composition of the roof alliance, we think it would be good for the quantity and quality of youth associations to be balanced. So the quantity and quality of youth associations should be balanced. As for the advice for young people, it is important to establish clear criteria for selecting members of the council and its work, or it will be regulated by the adoption of another act. But everyone should also consider that the percentage of young people in the council may be increased. It seems to me that in this legal proposal in the original version, that is, 30% in the original proposal, at least 30%. When it comes to funding programmes and activities, we believe, as you said, in the transparency of funding programmes and activities concerning young people, because that is also one way, as the minister said at the outset, to restore the confidence of young people in the institutions that represent them. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS-JS MP club in principle supports this legislative proposal, because it is good that this area is regulated legally. There is no answer to all the questions, it is not logical and not realistic at this point, it is not realistic to expect, but attention is drawn to the needs of young people as an important social category which, as you said among other things, makes 20% of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56826	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56827	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a pleasure to speak today in the National Assembly on this subject that is extremely important to us, and I am proud to have spoken before me, and I hope that they will speak, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which the Youth and Sports Ministry has just cited as an example of good practice in standardising those things that are important to young people. It is certain that this ministry cannot do everything in this country and cannot be in charge of every form of prosperity for young people and of facilitating the passage of young people, but in any case, what is important is that this law defines the advice for young people who will be joined by representatives of other ministries, but also representatives of young people and associations. They will then be able to exchange in one interaction what their experiences are, but also to exchange possible visions of solutions to the problems of young people who exist in Serbia, which are undeniable. It is hard to write a law on young people, it is really not easy, given that young people carry in them one special creativity is a special group of citizens of Serbia. It's hard to put into legal norm all the things that young people can think of. So this law represents a framework that young people need to fill with their creativity. It's the key to this law. It may seem to someone that the law is like this or like that, that the law is not the law, that it is a declaration, but in any case there is no consensus in the Council of Europe about the Convention on Youth. Everyone knows it needs to be brought, and somehow it's not brought. However, given the altruism and our delegations, as well as the distinguished counterpart Kovac, I am sure they will move towards the Convention on Youth and the Council of Europe, given that this is the point of the agenda – the convention and the young people in Europe. It can be said, after all, that this law is not the law, but why isn't it the law? For a simple reason because young people are the law and they'd have to be the law for us to be old. As I said, this law gives us a framework that will fill young people. We want to deal with the future and that's what's most important to us, remembering the past and praying that this past never happens again. There are indisputable values in our past, and it is indisputable that today is June 28th, Vidovdan, and it is a good thing that this day is about young people, because young people will create the beginning of this day the future of Serbia. I can't help but remember on June 28, 1989, when he started with one wrong policy exodus of young people from Serbia who left the country disappointed with a policy based on something honorable and great in our history. The policies of those who are no longer young must be such that young people are provided with the future, and that should be the chalk of all politicians who need to talk about youth problems. Otherwise, media will enter that space, which will form awareness of young people, who will not actually be conscious because they will be based on some passing and cheap values. Of course, when we talk about young people being our future, of course it sounds like a parole, but it only sounds when they say old ones. But when young people take the lead, we'll feel each other's new and better times. That time is certainly ahead of us, so we must trust ourselves, but also the life ahead of them, those who are young today and those who will be young. By wandering often infatuated with the very mediocre things we talked about, or neglected by society, by the society they make older, the young themselves seek their own expression. They're often rebellious, often unhappy, but they're always determined to be active, they're prone to change, and they're much more prone to change than we are, because they're more aware that we don't have time. A strategy aimed at young people has changed a lot, and the country has for the first time realized that the older ones in this country have to deal with each other. Often, we older ones have wandered astray from various delusions by moving away from the truth, and we are not inclined to understand what young people promote. It's certainly our foot, but what we also need to know is that young people don't care about us, but we have to care about young people. We have before us a bill of youth, which we will talk about today, but what is important today is with us and a responsible minister who recognized what is always difficult for us, which is that we understand young people. We can't order young people anything, we can't standard anything, especially not as a state, but this law determines the form that young people need and can fill. That is why the strategy, which I was talking about and which was first adopted since Minister Samardzic led the Ministry of Youth and Sports, is a strategy that is long enough and represents an agreement between us and our children. The relevant strategy is supported by 167 round tables. As you can see, it takes a lot more time to cover all the inexhaustible ideas of young people. The important thing is that there was a debate where young people were involved. It was extensive and forms the basis of this law. Unlike many laws that have been passed and unlike those that have not been implemented, youths will certainly take advantage of their chance by this law. When I was talking about "we old," thinking of myself, I noticed that many people smile a lot because they think I'm not too old either, but I'm only old for one reason, which I was in two wars when I was 30 years old. It's only now that at the age of 40 that I start over, in a way, coming back to that youth that's brutally interrupted, by playing with my children and thus learning from them, because I'm sure we can learn a lot from them. This law obliges us to listen to young people, to give them equal chances, to support them, to be aware of their significance, not to choke them, which is very important, to promote them, to move away when they move forward, to hear them and to believe their age, which is not often the case. Serbia's future is built on mutual trust between old and young people, but I would add those who are prematurely, not by their own fault, aged. As much as I draw strength from my memory of youth, I am often and dissatisfied, I often complain, I often feel unsettled, but it's just how I feel young. Our policy must provide local self-government to provide both their and our children with conditions for a normal life. Astonished by the great migration of young people to cities or abroad, we have to ask ourselves a question – how much did we actually understand their needs? They all love their country undeniably, their village and their city, but they don't like it when they simply can't live, because they only believe in a life worthy of their youth. Their parents understand them best, be sure of that. Then we have to let them, together with their children, create a local policy and provide conditions for the lives of young people and their children, because this is a condition that they set themselves and a deal with the state to continue living in this country and to lead a life of dignity and not a life that we have led in the not so distant past. We are old enough to be satisfied with young things because we are not young enough to pursue higher goals. The ideals ended somewhere, and often we tell young people that nothing is ideal, asphyxiating their life chalk. We have no right to do that, and that's why we have to learn from them. We must all be aware that young people are given the place, otherwise we will be condemned to have our young ones start over. We can remind them of what we and our ancestors were worth, but they must create new values. We respect the skulls embedded in the Cell Tower, but we want to deal with the heads of young people who will tomorrow be the future of this country and create new values. We don't have the right to make a mistake, and that's why the path that we're making through this law is a clear path that is directly aimed at young people, a path that can only go if they want to, a path to the last destination, and that path is the future ideal for Serbia, which we all go together, along with those who will live in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56828	11 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56829	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Government's representatives, is today on the agenda of the youth law, as we know. Before I say anything about this law, I'll remind you that you've come to our MPs' clubs in time to present this law yourself, but since you've now been prevented, and we know why, since you brought with our water polos a gold medal, we congratulate our water polo players from this place, because the only collective sport that has been placed at the London Olympics. I hope there'll be more. Now about the law. I'm not going to do the apologetic speeches as my friends did, but I'm going to speak for real, the way I feel. When it comes to youth law, we expected this law, first of all, to deal with prevention, to talk about the causes and consequences, or that the government finally realized that some quality ideas wanted to improve the lives of young people in Serbia. But we don't think we have an answer to any of these questions, and the government hasn't even dealt with the essential problems of young people at all. I have this law in my hand. As one of my predecessors said, he looks like a declaration and he's some pamphlet, not like a serious law, for the simple reason this law doesn't commit, which there are no sanctions. I assume you had good intentions, Madam Minister, to do a good law, to write a good law. You hit the shape, but you didn't. That's what we're going to criticise today. Today we are talking about young people who will be future doctors, professors, whys and MPs, mechanics, farmers, plumbers, and therefore we need to make a quality environment so that this army of young people does not move abroad again and do business there. I guess, and I'm asking all the MPs, and I'm asking all the MPs and the positions and the opposition whether they know the cases that a young man from their environment, a college-educated, went away forever and left his hearth, went after bread and never came back or returned when they were divorced. I guess there are cases like this and you know cases like that. Someone said it was a roof law and that based on this roof law, we should legalize a probationary organization. I ask all of you, if we're talking about roof law, and we all know that the house is built from the ground up, and only at the end of the roof, did Serbia, did this government lay good foundations for one of these roof laws? Our opinion is that it isn't. Some 400,000 experts from the 1990s have moved out of Serbia. It cost this country dearly. Their education cost about $300,000. When you multiply it by 400,000, the state of Serbia is at a loss of 12 billion. An even greater loss is seen in the fact that they didn't do it here, that they didn't develop our country. At the time, however, this brain drain existed in communism, but they were skillfully covering it up and saying it was a work of opportunity. They were wise and thus concealed. Polls speak, respected friends, who were conducted three four months ago to graduate our universities, students of our senior year would at this point 63% go abroad and work there. They would do anything, not in their profession, just to provide themselves with the existence. Frankly, that's what I thought until 2000. However, I saw some of my chances in these changes, I saw a chance in Vojislav Kostunica and he justified my trust just between 2004 and 2008, and you were given power when Serbia lived best, when the average salary was 426 euros, when the gross social product grew from 6% to 7% each year. Many of these people who have not left may have hoped, respected friends, to find their jobs in those 200,000 jobs promised by Boris Tadic or to help parents with those 1,000 euros promised by Mladjan Dinkic or even thought that grandparents would help them with their pensions that should be 70% of their personal income. But it doesn't seem to have happened. Instead of this government continuing to do what the previous government did, this government destroyed everything. At this point, believe me, Serbia is elsewhere in the brain drain. That's what you know, Madam Minister, in 132 places only Guinea-Bissau were found and it's an extremely good company. I hope that will change in the future and that this country will come to its senses, that it will make one strategy, not only to stop that brain drain, but to make one strategy for brain inflow. All those people who left earlier might come back, but for that there should be adequate conditions, optimal conditions that I hope the government will continue in the future. A Russian Nobel laureate, Jotor Lenidovich Copit, says that for a country, the science of a country is extremely devastating when 50 scientists, experts, go away. Our country is small, but a lot of professional people have left this area. Many countries have stopped the drain of their brains, such as South Korea, China, India, but with a smart strategy because they have invested in science and technology. That doesn't apply to your report, ma'am, but they've put a lot of money into it. I will give you an example of a Finnish country, a European country, which invests 75 times more than Serbia in science, separates 4% of GDP, i.e. 5.2 billion for the development of science and technology. It should be noted that some universities, and that of private universities, are supporting the fires of leaving our young students. We have an example that Belgrade was flooded with the bibbards of a megatrend of the university where it is said "ending a megatrand and ablaze". The fact is that at that same university, our minister of education, Zarko Obradovic, also teaches, and that according to the university owner, it is one patriotic statement. If we keep this up, believe me, we're really gonna stop the brain drain and nobody's gonna leave anymore, because we're not gonna have an expert. And that famous line -- whoever comes out of Serbia, let the light really come true. We expected that maybe this law, or even that the government would solve family problems in terms of because our people, the Serbian people, are one of the oldest people, not in history, but in biology. We're fourth in Europe and tenth in the world. Our young people don't get alone until they're 32 years old, have some autonomy, run away from their parents. Until then, their parents fed them. What I wanted to tell you, Mrs. Minister, is that there are a large number of migrations in Serbia itself, the departure of young people to larger centres like Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, so that the whole southern Serbia and eastern Serbia are empty, and you know that physics does not know about empty space, and you know that there will still be someone moving in, those who border with us. And that's what we have to take care of. The previous government in the town of Leskovac, where I come from, took care of it and built a fund for young talents. However, the government in which you are now parciling, you as a party, has shut down that fund. Fifteen students received a 100-euro scholarship per month, not a great deal of money, but it is very good for their parents' budget. But we don't know for what reason this current government has shut it down. What kind of message did we send to young people? To escape from Leskovec, and we expected them to return and be a steam locomotive that would pull the development of Leskovec. Now would be nice to say something about the law. When it comes to this law, we haven't said anything new. Even on the Youth and Sports Committee, we said that we would vote against this law, because we think that the law is not good and that the law can be done better. Our young DSS also took part and gave us some instructions when we wrote the amendments. We wrote about 25 amendments, you'll see that, and we wanted to fix what couldn't be fixed. I hope you will accept some amendments that are essential and how I can help in the quality of this law. Our basic objections when it comes to this law are primarily the agency. You will tell me that this is imperative because the EU is asking us to oversee this law on youth. However, the fact is, since only six countries in Europe have passed this law, it is not European law and that we can adapt our law to our conditions. You in your ministry have the Secretary of State for Youth. You trust him with that job, you trust him with that report to deal with the problem. The other thing is, we've passed one law here on the reduction of the number of workers in the state's apparatus. I hope, if this agency is already formed, that it will be young people, those who have lost their jobs under that law on the reduction of the number of employees. There's a chance, not a place to hire party personnel. When it comes to young people's offices, you said there are 123 of them at this point and this way, in fact, this law makes us legalize them. I told the Sports Committee, if you remember Madam Minister, that a large number of employees in these youth offices are from G17 plus, even using party rooms to promote certain programs. That's what I told you, you should have checked, that's the truth. What we have responded with the amendment that in these offices people should not be 30 years old, because of the difolts by law, because the law speaks of people 15 to 30 years old. These people need to deal with this problem. When it comes to the strategy of opinion we are that the strategy should be written for one longer period, for a period of 10 years, because it is a permanent document that we should respect and hope that you will respond to that amendment, and that you will accept it, because it is an amendment and how well-intentioned. Funding the project, we wanted it to be transparent, to be public, so we put in an amendment where we ask you to show on your ministry's website all the candidates whose projects have been passed and whose projects haven't passed, that people see and that they know why they haven't passed. And in the end, I would look back, as a grudge, and that is the discretionary right of the minister. You can see that through Article 24. We talked about previous laws here, we were full of mouths of it, that Serbia was 82 by perception and corruption. This is exactly the kind of law that the government shows to be the generator of corruption. That is why we have responded with the amendment, I hope you will also accept that amendment. And in the end, the evil languages say that this is one law done before the election, that it's an electoral law. I don't want to believe it, but that's what people say. People say the law was just made to network the network of youth's G17 plus, i.e. The U.S.S. And I won't believe it, evil intentions. But here's a colleague. It's quite possible. I believe so. Also, we don't understand why DS comes out so much to meet the URS i.e. Young Dinkucci? Is this about the coalition? I know we're not gonna get an answer to those questions, but about that let's judge the young at last, I'm sure, as Mika Antic says, we're doing everything we can to do nothing. That's what we do with this law so they don't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56830	Fifteen minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the respected public of Serbia, we have before us a law on young people who we have called roof law. It always bothers me as a man when something is called a roof law, I think it should be a fundamental law, it's based on key things. As a parliamentary group, New Serbia absolutely believes one such law needs Serbia. The fact that we are the sixth country in Europe to bring it is the information that should serve us honor. As someone who is very active in the rights of a child, the rights of young people, I welcome every step in that direction. However, like any political decision, we are primarily politically responsible people here, at least we are expected by the citizens of Serbia, which is why we were elected here. We're going to have to answer a lot of questions, especially when they're young, because life is a one-way trip, they come in our years, we never get into theirs again. Youth has strength, older years of experience, and together it should give one improvement, one progress for all visible and all beneficial. Doseij Obradović, our first guardian of education, said in his lifetime and more connected that the young soul is similar to the melted wax, in which the mold is sally, in which you will receive it, and it is true. A legal project like this is brought to regulate rights and obligations. That should be his primary goal. Other - principles, rules, habits and other transparent advocates are governed by the declaration. The law must be explicit, clear and applicable. So that's what the basic lack of this law is. He's well-intentioned and he's got a form and form of a declaration that went off a little bit into the members, so she introduced herself as a law. Indeed, he has good intentions, they are listed here in these principles. But I am sorry that there was not enough hearing in the Ministry that before adopting such a proposal to the MPs, you would look at only one legal solution, let's say BiH, which, through 44 members, therefore, has made some very specific things, made the law applicable and showed that the law would be applied, that it should not only be that, etc. means, it may not mean, that the law would bring, or restore or establish, an institution of trust in institutions, and institutions rest on the laws, and that is the basic basis of trust in their actions, because you know what will happen if they do not act in accordance with the law or you do not act in accordance with the law, therefore the modern society rests, so they have imposed the measures of criminal policies. What if someone doesn't do something about it? It is essential that this law is lacking, because all of this here is a list of good wishes and good intentions, insufficient, and we need to know that this is a law on young people, that young people are raised, raised and directed to the models that we create and which, among other things, we are, that education and education are two inseparable processes and each of these discussions and each of our publicly spoken words we raise them to be or how they can behave or how they can't behave. So the rights stem from obligations. And that, for example, is clearly stated in that law with our neighbours in BiH. They said what rights young people have, what their goals are in this law to achieve and what their obligations are to that law. There's no such thing here in the law. We put a lot of amendments, not enough as we thought we should. I'll look back, say, on a few members I don't think are the happiest ones to be solved. For example, in Article 3(5), in the case of informal education, which we have talked about and which is welcome, but it must be done much more precisely what is informal education, do not forget what is the place for the abuse of young people, and we have, among other things, the duty and obligation to protect young people from the dangers of their age, which they may be exposed to. It's one of our obligations, and we need to settle it by legal means. So, in Article 4, let's say, where the principle of support for young people is promoted. The article reads this – all of them, and especially youth policy entities within their jobs and in the area support the social establishment of young people in a manner established by law, strategies and other instruments. So that's one general attitude and a really good intention. What if someone doesn't support it? Nothing. Then, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination. It's already been arranged by other laws. They are not exempt from these legal solutions, but they have passed laws, all young people are equal. What, everybody else isn't equal? They're all equal by our Constitution. Don't make them any more equal than the others. Then we'll get dangerously close to Orve. The principle of equal chances, it's already a little hypocrisis or hypocrisy. Young people are entitled to equal chances and participation in all areas of social life according to their own choices and abilities. It's really a promotion of goodwill, just to see it in action and to see it when someone won't respect it. How do you do that? And most often they won't and they won't be very hard. Where do we see it in our practice to implement it? And since we have this problem, where do we see how we sanction the one who doesn't do it and where do we make it clear that someone has an obligation? You know how much trouble we've had about the Disabilities Act, etc., to help people who are marginalized in any way to find their place in society, and we had to do it very precisely and clearly to set some criminal measures for employers, to determine which number, etc., and that was a huge shift in that sense, so we had to sort this out here, too. I'm saying, it could. Some of them settled it with the law. Well, the principle of raising awareness of the importance of young people and their social role. It can't be prescribed by law. This is a principle, it can be entered into the declaration, but it's a law to prescribe consciousness, and it's in a member, so how are you going to prove by law that by Article 7, I don't have it in my consciousness or any of us, or that it does? It's something that makes the law quite a written composition, not a legal solution. It is a matter of culture, tradition, education, education, through generations and generations and general social mileage and general social crisis or general political crisis, general political lifestyle, economic activity and everything else. It all affects, as well as the information system, the formation of consciousness. Today, when we have this electronic communication, we are aware of how much the interest of some powerful media owners is above all ethical and basic scruples and at least we are aware of how, without creating criteria, we have destroyed everything, starts from language to other cultural values, as well as all other systems of value, precisely because of the uncontrolled functioning of media houses. The principle of active youth participation, which I absolutely welcome, but I'm interested in how it can be implemented? He says: "all, especially youth policy entities, provide an incentive environment and provide active support" and this member ends with a single syntax that says "and based on the full awareness of young people". What is the basis and what is based on the full intelligence of young people applied, done, and what will happen if not? We further have the principle of responsibility and solidarity for young people. This is also a good intention, which is the educational goal of a society and is in the work of the Ministry of Education. It's been the educational goal of all schools for decades. We do not have to prescribe it specifically, it is also contained in our moral code of our basic home education. If you look back on that, you'll understand. So I don't just know how it's going to apply, how we're going to determine whether it's broken by Article 9 of this Act or not. What if we find out it is? There are already other laws that the issue in society when it appears regulates. A national strategy for young people is absolutely necessary. The national strategy should be part of national policy. National policy is brought by one government. The overall attitude towards young people should be something that should be a strategy and a goal of society. However, as in many situations when the election year comes, we look at the target groups, so we count which target groups are the most numerous and which we will address. All of us who do politics, political campaigns know what I'm talking about. Now young people are quite a political stake or political prey if we address them in the right way. We only have one other toothpick or a little problem in that communication with young people. Young people of the 1990s are not naive at all, they've been through a lot thanks to us and they have a lot of questions for us that we don't have an answer for, and we have to answer them why they were born and lived in a country like this, why they haven't been arranged for their pretty rescue and growing up the way they do every time, and they've looked at themselves in the last decade a lot of political campaigns, they're not as arranged as we keep promising them and what guarantees that we're going to sort it out the way we promise. You know, they're learning a lot in that formal education, so they figured out such troubled media that Greek tragedy was based on bribery, and Serbian was on bribery and corruption. They see it well and thus create some of their criteria, some of their systems of values. Unfortunately, and they destroy many systems of value, but for that we are responsible, because we are obliged to make that socially desirable mile in which they will grow in a healthy and good environment, positively for them. This strategy, which has good intentions, says – youth policy entities act in accordance with the principles of the strategy. There are no methodical regulations, operatives, strategies and tactics how young people do it. So we impose some principles on them and prescribe some rules, and how they're going to do that, we'd have to give them instructions. We have an obligation based on our experience to be clear and concrete here. What should have been prescribed, which in BiH dared to prescribe clearly -- political parties cannot organise youth associations, the end. This shows that they are not hypocrites, thus protecting against the abuse of political parties that this law quite opens on a small door and, what the colleague said earlier, see how the offices for young people work, are mostly political parties' exposures. They can't get in there young people with great ideas, no matter how good they are. I've listened from young people who've gone with fantastic projects, there's no hearing about it, you're not where you're supposed to be, you can be a genius, end of story. That's the truth in the field. So it's a tiny member who was supposed to protect them. It could be copied from this law very clearly. It's a member who shows that someone really wants young people to be young, to create their own world and protect them from us, because we're not perfect here, we're all trying and we're all doing in the name of our constituents behind us, to show ourselves in some good light, to do our best, but if someone who comes behind us and has power and draws some wrong and real experience and learns about it, they should be given an objective chance. Maybe some brand-new political forces already appear in the next session and do what we promise to do. Then we have a member of the 13th that we also had some objections about. Young people can join informal associations, that is, Article 5, whose objectives or areas of achievement of the objectives are aimed at young people in accordance with those laws that act in accordance with the law governing the establishment and legal position of the association. So, informal and formal associations, these are about projects that can be formally registered associations, they're already allowed here and informal, but they're going to be seen as being channeled somewhere in formality and then politically conducted, I'm going to use that term. So the council, the office and the youth agency in BiH law are not envisaged by the agency. So it's not the EU's obligation. Believe that if you move anywhere in Serbia, and we come from Serbia, we return every night to our cities and come here in the morning, there is a word that irritates more people at this point, which is the word agency. They tie them to the darkest moments of this economic crisis in every way possible. So another youth agency with an all-access administration that's about to go into the budget is just going to cut funds where it's supposed to go, and it's about to invest them in young people. Young People's Office, I've already talked about it in article 18. The Youth Office is funded from the budget of the local self-government unit, as well as other sources under the law. I think that's where the sources should be guessed. You know, other sources can be who, and whoever pays that lot dictates. It's a rule, the one who gives money and dictates the rules of conduct. So, if we've determined it to be local self-government, if it's in the interest of the state, that is, but what if local self-government won't do it? For example, the government is being replaced, there is a political party who cannot implement it and otherwise implement the policy, you have no plans, and in BiH law it is very clearly envisaged and precise. The Youth Agency of 19th is the only thing that bothers me, and this is one complex sentence for the implementation of the Youth Programme, and in line with EU youth programmes, the Agency can be educated in accordance with special law. Even there's a non-binding verb that can. The funding of programmes and projects of public interest in the youth sector, there are indeed several items that we have also had observations on, but what bothers me as someone who has been ex-Catera for 25 years and has been fighting for years and now as an MP, in every budget and budget rebalancing, colleagues certainly remember that I personally submitted the amendment asking for it, as it is said here in point 11 – is supported by young talent through the award, scholarship and training of students, we know that the Ministry of Education is dealing with this, we know that there is a law that deals with this, the Law on Student and Student Standards, etc., and then says – to fund support young talent through the award, scholarship and training of students, the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget are provided by the government for these purposes, a fund for young talent in accordance with the budget system. We've been reading about how our talents pass and how much they're rewarded. For years I have advocated, I say here as a Member who has submitted the amendment each time, very clearly and personally resented Mr. Zarko Obradovic, in principle and responsible minister for these affairs, which he has not fought for more funding for student competitions. It's the first place we draw the best, the most talented, we stimulate and develop. It's such a modest means, on purpose, a little cynicalally submitted the amendment, asking that individual government vice presidents and others' representatives should be removed, and that's to be allocated. Very modest means, and you remember, that amendment never went through. Not once. No one wants to give up one in the government on behalf of the children. Nobody. That's true. And that's what I'm telling you honestly. If someone had shown the will and said, "You know what, we're not going with these means, but we're going with some others." No, that's not what they were talking about. That's the truth that stands there. So, where we need to recognize it, and that's when I said and every time I say they're the future. They are the future, and they should be the watch that will then produce in this society all the necessary conditions so that we can take all those marginalized groups as socially responsible people, help them and make their lives a decent man. In this law, in Article 20, point 11, we end up, of course, taking care of the talented, but in this law, not the ones that this same society has to think about – those young people who are socially endangered, there is no such thing here. Then, the resociation of delinquents at a young age, and these are the young ones we have to worry about and make them useful... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll be done. These are all the objections of this law. Later, in my part of the debate, I will continue to make the remarks I have on the law. I hope you'll have a hearing for our amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56832	I believe there is no minister who has not made his request regarding the needs, but that budgets are simply limited. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56833	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. In March we discussed the Law on Sport, the same ministry – the Ministry of Youth and Sports. It was a law that did not bring the best solution to the development of sports in Serbia, but it nevertheless represented and represents a serious legal act, which was obviously long and fundamentally done. Today we're talking about a different law from this ministry's jurisdiction, about youth law. I think the name of this law itself is discriminatory. We have proposed to change the name of this law and its name – the youth law. Why? Because the youthful term is a term that was detached in the Serbian language, when it comes to this population, and because that word and that expression can be used very nicely both in the singles and in the masculine and female. After all, the bill itself mentions and uses the term – youth in its provisions. For example, in Article 3, of a total of five points of this Article 3, even four mentions youth, youth sector, youth policy, youth activity and youth work. In addition, the name of your ministry is not the Ministry of Youth and Sports but the Ministry of Youth and Sports. That's why we think this term is more appropriate. It's not so important the name of this law, it's important that essentially formally this law is not good. Basically, this law did not cover all those social areas where young people live. Technically, there is no form of a legal act, it is not a law but is one incomplete declaration that has not even listed in its principles everything the national strategy adopted in 2008. I said the law isn't complete, not even according to the declaration. He does not mention some important areas of social life in which young people are in Serbia today. There is no mention of any word of education, except in one part – informal education, there is no mention of the problem of employment which is a crucial problem for young people in Serbia, nor of measures to alleviate this problem, nor of measures to prevent young experts from leaving and even young people from the country. There's not a word about the addiction problems they're burdening today, to a large extent, our youth and the whole country. There is nothing and nothing is written about the growing dependence of young people on drugs, alcohol, crime among young people and absolutely other addictions that are not mentioned in this bill, or the bill. The law only has 29 members. We had the Sport Act, which was adopted in March and has 194 members. That's when I said it was a law that was really too big, the most extensive law on sports, not only in the region, but also in Europe. This law is too modest, summed up for this problem and for this kind of our population, of which, as many of my colleagues and colleagues have said, depends on the future of our country. I'd rather have a 194th member of the Youth Act and a 29th-member Sports Act. If in this law we reject those introductory members, transitional and final provisions, then we will be able to bring the law down to some 20 members, which is not quite enough for such a complex problem. The National Strategy for Youth was adopted by the government in 2008 and this is a good move by the government. It is obvious that, based on this strategy, it has been tried to write a law on young people. However, the national strategy for young people, which was later developed in the action plan for comparing and applying this strategy in 2009, was based, above all, on the experience of Western countries. It is good in one hand, but on the other hand, it is not good because the specificities of the youth's position in Serbia are not respected. It is not all the same to be a young man in Serbia, and it is not the same to be a young man living in the West. It literally overwrites the recommendations of the Council of Europe, i.e. the national strategy focuses on 11 indicators recommended in the EU youth strategy – youth, investment and empowerment, and then the "youth in motion" programme in the EU – Europe 2020 strategy, etc. The second plan of the national strategy is based on the 2002 census statistics. I can see that you said that in your exposé, too, but I don't think that's relevant because it happened nine years ago. We cannot rely on these data, and we cannot claim that there are millions and 500 thousand young people in Serbia and that they are now one quarter, or 20% of the total population in Serbia. We will only see that after the census in Serbia. Remember that many youths have left the country, that many of them have not returned and that it is uncertain whether a number of them will return or not. Moreover, in 2002 there was no economic crisis, no global or domestic crisis, so circumstances are quite different today. A new national strategy for young people should be adopted, as this strategy, which is seriously written, can indeed serve as a good basis for the development of a new strategy, a comprehensive one, which will clearly define the problems of young people in Serbia and clearly set the necessary measures to address them. The problem of young people in Serbia differs significantly from that of young people abroad. Young people in Europe did not have wars in the 1990s, they did not have sanctions on economics that contributed significantly to the collapse of our economic structure. Our young Europeans didn't have a bombing. There are no refugees or displaced years and their nationality in their countries. Our youngsters live a much harder life. They've been through all this. Secondly, in EU countries, there is almost no poverty in many countries, and this is a growing and more difficult problem for us. These are just some of the advantages of European youth compared to ours, and that is why we need European guidelines, when we call on them, to adapt to the conditions in which our youth lives. Now in this situation which is very insecure for young people, but also for all other citizens of Serbia, we expect young people to learn normally, to be hired and to lead our country tomorrow. Although most European countries do not have youth laws, many of them have national programmes and plans to protect children and youth. The reason is, I'm sure, misstated that many countries have. They don't. Slovenia doesn't, it only has a national programme for children and adolescents, so it's not the law. Furthermore, the real law in the environment only has BiH, the law was passed in 2010, last year, and the only law that is really relevant in Europe has Germany. As I prepare to discuss this law, I have studied the law for young people in Germany and I can tell you that it fully justifys my claim that this is not about the bill, but about the proposal for a declaration of youth. It's simple, the law isn't concrete. In Germany, the law lists bans for children and youngsters, or adolescents. He can't have any child or adolescent watching a movie unless there's an informational content or educational content on it. It's the same with video tapes. It is strictly prohibited and punishment is imposed on children and adolescents to go to unaccompanied restaurants, casinos and it is sanctioned with very severe penalties, even one year of law or up to 50,000 euros. So it's a law that clearly prescribes what is allowed, what is not to be, that clearly regulates the particular area. That's what's missing from this law. That's why he's really empty, incomplete and concrete in that part. Nevertheless, I still believe that the Ministry of Youth and Sports had a good intention and I stand at the view that this law for young people needs Serbia, but not this law, but a new, different, more comprehensive law that will clearly recognise the basic problems of young people in Serbia and set concrete measures that will do everything possible to address these particular problems of young people in Serbia in the best possible way, depending on the economic, social and political situation in the country. What are the problems of young people in Serbia? There's a lot of them, but I'll try to give you a few problems. These are: disorganization of young people, indecision of young people, inability to decide on issues that are in their interest, but also many things that differ from their peers in Europe. Young people are not and cannot, unfortunately, be involved in deciding on important issues for their position. The laws on basic education and on higher education are laid down and allowed to have the right to association, but also to have the right to their student and student parliaments. They're in most schools and colleges, and they exist, but the question is how they function. Unfortunately, not well, unfortunately, unorganized because there is simply a skepticism among young people that simply their voice is not heard, that their voice is not important, that teachers, parents and political actors absolutely have no hearing about their problems. That is why, according to the Institute of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy, only 88% of young students are engaged in these parliaments, and it is similar in student parliaments. The decisions and attitudes of these parliaments are not respected and young people are completely demoted because they realize that only mere observers, without any chance of making decisions are important to their lives and position in society. That is why young people do not trust in the system and do not want to be sufficiently involved in public life, although, according to the survey, as many as 64% of young respondents believe that their work, their advice and their engagement in organisations of a variety of types could really influence the decision making by their position. The active participation of young people in society is negligible. Young people are expected to do much, even if they bring Serbia forward tomorrow, which is quite normal, natural and logical, but the decisions on them are made by others. Nearly 90% of young people do not want to be involved in any kind of organization, not even in associations of citizens, not in cultural and artistic societies, not in sports societies. Only a small part of them are involved in these organizations. The bad economic situation has contributed to a large number of young people leaving the village and smaller cities to larger cities, which is the migration that we are truly aware of. About 80% of young people express their desire in the polls to move from smaller environments to larger environments to provide themselves with a better existence. According to research done back in 2003, every other young man wanted to leave the country. Today, there is no relevant research on how young people are in such a position. We're talking about the lack of equal chances. That's what's mentioned in this bill. It's a reality in Serbia. Young people living in poverty are given a special category. We must not keep in mind that 26% of young people do not have a complete three meals a day. Young people with disabilities are a special category that is not given enough attention. Of some 800,000 people with disabilities in Serbia, 24% are under 25. Young people living in refugee countries, young people who are displaced with KIM also live in a very bad situation and who in a significantly smaller number end schools than their peers, even fewer end universities than their peers in Serbia, and young people in KIM live in constant fear of what will happen to them, what their fate is, what the fate of KIM is in general, what their parents will do if new conflicts break out, where they will and where they will go. These young people are not taken care of at all. Also, there is a category of young people with unresolved housing status, and these are both employees and unemployed. Even 70% of young people who are unemployed live with their parents, and even 50% of those who are employed still live with their parents because of the inability to solve housing problems. These are just some problems, and in the second part of my presentation at the end of the debate, I will talk about further problems and solutions to address the situation of young people and about the shortcomings of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56834	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow you and your name to welcome a group of young DSS, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following a part of today's session, extremely thematically significant for them and for all of us, from the Great Hall gallery. Present are Vladimir Tomanovic, Marko Milosevic, Filip Radosavljevic, Mihajlo Babić, Aleksandar Trajkovic, Mihajlo Vidojevic, Marko Stanojevic, Marija Timotic, Milan Jamić, Andreja Perić, Aleksandar Nikolic, Nikola Gizić, Nikola Markov, Miroslav Josić, Milos Živanić, government of Crnogoorac, Miroslav Simić, Milica Duka, Milan Rojic and Nikola Pesic. Let's give it up for our distinguished guests! We're going back to work. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56835	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about a very important topic today. I can speak freely to one of the most important, because each and every one of us are the children and young ones who are the most important people in our lives. Unfortunately, at the very beginning, I must express my dissatisfaction with this bill. This is the first time this area has been defined by law and expectations have been so great. However, the promoter did not rightly respond to expectations. I remember the visit of Ms. Leskovac on September 3rd last year when the law was announced as a major national project that will be adopted during the international year of youth lasting until 12 August this year and said it is important for young people in Serbia to get their law this year. The disappointment is great, because today we have a bill of law that characterizes two things. The first thing is the over-emphasis of the role of the association and alliances that young people need to join. I will only remind myself that the Association Act, two years ago, is defined that when we say the association, it involves an NGO, Article 2(2) of the law mentioned. The other thing that is evident is the attempt of a political party to draw young people before the elections by making this law in a very skilled way, make first contacts with them, and all with the ultimate goal of including them in their ranks. That's what I'll explain later. Given that the objective of adopting this law is defined by improving the social position of young people and creating conditions for achieving the needs and interests of young people in all areas of interest for young people. We are left with an open question – whether bringing young people closer to a political party and membership in various associations, i.e. NGOs, the only way to improve the social position of young people. When we read what is written in the Bill on Youth, we see these two things and realize how devastating it is for young people living in Serbia. Most can be said to live very hard, many of the problems they face daily, and officials offer a solution in the form of NGOs or membership in political parties. I'll be on my way from the beginning of the bill. First of all, the defined items and the objective and the explanation of what youth policy and the youth sector are, which means individual expressions, the principles cited. That's some of those opening things. Through three members, the National Strategy for Youth has been mentioned, as is the document, which is also implemented by the way of funding. I would like to point out that the Strategy, as a document, is not bad, that the problems have been properly identified or that the Strategy mentions the situation, although it is something so obvious. It's actually a written daily. Part of the Strategy relating to the objectives and general and specific and measures for achieving them, too, cannot be said that something has been done wrong. The institutions responsible for the implementation of the objectives are listed. So it's mostly written right, that's all you have to do in practice and apply. I'll be back to the bill now. There's a part about associations and alliances. In order to avoid the possibility of anyone interpreting SRS as malicious, I would like to read what is in our programme, the SRS programme in Part 26 writes. The SRS advocates the maximum achievement of all kinds of citizens' organisation, except for the association in order to endanger the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Serbian state, as well as association in order to limit, suppress and reduce the rights of citizens of our country, certain religious sects and others. The association of citizens, associations and organisations aimed at fostering hobbies, meeting the partial and group needs of their members, means providing possible financial resources necessary for the life and work of each association and organisation by citizens in that association. The state cannot have financial obligations to these associations. The aim of this SRS relationship towards the free association of citizens is to primarily focus on the setting up of such associations of partial interests, on the global interests of citizens, as well as the termination of funding by different associations which are fundamentally political and whose sole reason is that they play at a certain political point in their role as assistants of the regime. This proposal introduces legal flows to finance NGOs through funds from the budget of the Republic and units of local self-government. More specifically, the Law on Associations adopted in July 2009 has already legalised the approval of money from the budget. In order to be properly understood, I have to point out that the SRS doesn't see any problem in that if some dinar goes as a donation to the Society of Cerebral Paralysy, the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf, the Alliance of Blind, the Association of Paraplegics, the Association of Distrophysists, the Centre for the Independent Life of Persons, on the contrary. However, all of us present in this hall a few months ago have had the opportunity to see here in the National Assembly the documents that counterpart Boris Alexic read at the pay phone, which talk about the amounts paid from the budget to Sonja Licht's NGO. That's what the SRS is most strongly opposed to. Now I'm going to make some arguments about why. Funding of the National Youth Strategy, i.e. The work on building a strategy was deployed to 47 associations of citizens, i.e. NGOs selected by the ministry in competition with which funding contracts have been concluded. The total value of these contracts on the burden of Serbia's budget was 85.5m dinar. Of all state institutions, only the Institute of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade conducted a research on free time and daily youth. This research, together with the CESID survey on youth activists, was paid 3.016.750,00 dinars. The state still had a cost of 5.6 million dinars for 12 operating contracts during 2007/08. the years relating to the work of the thematic groups on drawing up the original proposal for a strategy. The campaign's cost during the second round of the consultation process was 213.5 thousand, while the seminar's costs cost 199,8 thousand dinars in the Kanjiz spa. The organisation and implementation of the final conference on the adoption of the Strategy's proposal in Belgrade cost 2.5 million dinars When all costs are summed up and the line is drawn, a figure of 97,169,271,49 dinars comes up. More than 85 million dinars to the NGO sector. In creating a youth policy in Serbia on the cost of citizens, the dominant influence has an NGO headed by Sonja Licht. During the period from 28 September 2007 to 15 July 2009, the NGO concluded four individual contracts of the total value of 10 with the ministry. 269,460,50 dinars. The first contract, 2.7 million refers to the implementation of the NGO project to establish coordination and monitor advisory committees. The second contract, 3.9 million, is the role of young political leaders in formulating national and local youth policies. The third contract, 2.2 million, projects Strategic direction to strengthen the role of young people in Serbia, a youth policy in the process of European integration. Fourth contract, million and 345 thousand, effective implementation of the National Youth Strategy in multiethnic environments, opportunities and challenges. The fact is, I repeat, it was enough to look at our daily life and write it in documents, state institutions have enough capacity to propose measures. So paying this kind of money to NGOs was really unnecessary. The proposer of this law sees the establishment of an association as a way to improve the conditions for the social development of young people. Associations are then joined in alliances, and the status of the roof alliance is achieved after the association of 60 associations and alliances. It is foreseen that the roof alliance has the authority to propose candidates for the Youth Council and participate in the process of developing and implementing strategies and other documents in the field of youth policy. This is a way of generating some new personalities, similar to those I mentioned earlier, by taking a lot of money from the budget and making decisions about the lives of young people. The next part of the law concerns advice, the office and the Youth Agency. This is the second feature of the bill, which shows the proposal's intention to bring young people closer and more often contact representatives of a political party. I would like to point out that the SRS Parliament Club has proposed its amendment to delete a member of the bill relating to the establishment of an agency. We do not think that the law should provide for the possibility to be educated at any time by the agency, first because the agencies are para-state bodies, parallel to the Constitution with recognised state bodies. Even if at this point you would have only predicted the possibility and not set up the agency, it would have been done recently, because elections are coming, so it is a great opportunity to sue certain staff, director, several sector managers, professional service, board of directors and supervisors. We know very well how some people treated taxpayers' money. We haven't forgotten, and I'm sure the citizens of Serbia won't forget Bojan Krisht and his astronomical managerial bonuses for a long time. He's an obvious team, and there's plenty of them. We've read several times behind the pay phone how much the director's salary was. Now I'm not gonna do it so I don't waste my time on it and I don't want to get away from what's on the agenda today. The position of the SRS is that, if it truly wants to improve the position of young people in society, it can also be done within legal institutions, although it is mostly due to the institutions being subordinated to the interests of the party that has placed its leaders in it, but that is the fact that it is a state body and must be accepted so that, if it truly wants to improve the position of young people, it is very simple to do so within the youth and sport sector. There is no need to set up a new agency, however much this is in line with EU programmes. The SRS absolutely does not see any problem in that, if the ministry lacks new professional staff, they are employed, because there is indeed a lot where the question is young, what needs to be solved, but setting up an agency is really unnecessary. As far as the Youth Council is concerned, we have not suggested that it be deleted from the bill or the youth office. Council bodies in Serbia have many and it is not a problem if there is a advice for young people. The problem is that general advice loses its role and its purpose of existence, has already become instruments in the hands of the authorities. This draft law provides that members of the council will be members of the Alliance's membership and at least one third of the members of the Council. Due to the arguments that I have cited for a little while, which relate to huge amounts of money transferred from budgets to NGOs, the SRS disagrees with this proposal. The Youth Office is designed to be a bond between young people and a political party holding in its hands the office for young people, the National Employment Service, the Ministry of Economy. It's an extraordinary concentration of power, and when there's so much power in someone's hands, then it's someone who decides who's going to be employed, whose projects will get self-employment support, for hiring young people in the family business, for self-employment of young people in rural areas and for all other projects. It should not be because of this problem of employment that many other problems remain in the shadows in other areas of young people's lives, especially the preservation of health, education and leisure. Every day, we witness an increasing threat to young people’s health with drugs and alcohol. Higher education is becoming the privilege of children of wealthy parents. Spending time is a quality in very small numbers of young people. Scary scenes from public places, especially from the sports venues, are also everyday. The basis of all these problems is an existential problem. We heard in the opening statement that when making the bill, you asked young people – what is it that they want to write in their law? We want to be honest. The biggest problem with young people is unemployment, more specifically the problem – how to get a job. It is important to point out, when we talk about an office for young people, that it is a space where a youth policy is created at a local level and as one of the elements of youth policy, projects from the youth enterprise are being developed. We're going back to the concentration of power. What is absurd is written in Article 22(2). The proposal for a youth law that defines local self-government as a condition for obtaining funding and co-financing of programmes and projects of public interest in the youth sector, is a condition that they have to have an office for young people. What does this mean? Unless a political party decides on the life of young people somewhere, they should not receive funds for young people living in that place. This represents pure discrimination. I'll finish what's pointed out at the beginning of the bill's reasoning. It's written, and you too, Madam Minister, have begun to say that young people will be less and less. I must remind you that in January, the SRS Parliament Club submitted to the National Assembly a bill amending the Law on Family Financial Support with Children, which we proposed positive measures to increase the birth rate. The only answer we have received is that our proposal is not in line with EU legislation, and in the light of the law, the first few sentences state that the EU has found that young people will soon be less. If there are no children, there is no youth. That makes sense. The SRS Parliament Club has submitted 15 amendments to this bill, with the intention of making this part of the youth policy, which you covered by the bill, as appropriate. This reminds the story of a written task in Serbian, when a professor evaluates a unit and writes – a missed topic. This bill is a missed topic, missed for young people, because it will not create preconditions to improve the quality of their lives. However, as far as the promoter is concerned, when we analyse the interests of the legislator, this is not a missed topic, they were targeting the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56836	Madam Minister, please, you have your word, just sign in. Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56837	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for listening carefully to everything that has been presented today in relation to the proposal for a law on young people and what is really imploding to me is the great concern and interest shown here about young people. I am glad, too, that everyone mentioned that this is an uncontested topic and that the law on youth is very much needed by this society. It's obviously a consensus, and I have to realize that, on behalf of the promoter and all those who worked on the law, it's really kind of me. What I can see is that there were preparations and readings, not only of our acts, I mean the bill, I mean the youth strategy, but there were reading and some international acts. However, I am terribly sorry that there have been some flagrant untruths, because I do not think the National Assembly is a place to present false information. One of these is certainly the data provided that Slovenia, for example, There's no law on young people. It is an opportunity to inform you, for those who did not know, that Slovenia adopted the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector in 2010. So, I'm asking all those who brought this out, not to go on with the amount of this, for example. Inaccuracy. What I have also noticed is that there is a certain fluctuation in international MPs on which the length of the law should be. I remember very well that there was criticism that some law is too long now the law is too short, kindly asking you to define whether there are any arches, precise in the santimeters and the number of these members to know which law is quality, serious and good based on it. For me, it's certainly not a basic criterion, which I've already shown before. Also, doubt has been expressed whether the law will apply or not? The suspicion has been expressed, namely, said that this is the government's goodwill and desire to pass such a law. First, I'm going to tell you that the youth strategy has been seriously applied since 2008 and the data say that there have already been around 700,000 young people involved in the activities envisaged by the action plan, which I can confidently say is quite a large number. Of course, I cannot disagree with the MP who said this data is statistics on the number of young people, more specifically about a million and a half young people in Serbia in 2002. Because it's the only data I really can't invent and I can't as someone who deals with serious issues and the law to invent something that doesn't exist. When new statistics are brought in, which are credible and listable, then we'll be able to get on them and base ourselves. What I've also noticed is that there is a certain one, so to speak, an increased desire to be punished. As I said, this is by a lot of pioneering laws, and it may also have this relationship of a new system of values, where something is based on good will or is not formulated as an explicit requirement that someone must do this or that someone has to do it, is already defined what the obligation is, and this obligation is defined in a certain way so that it can be financed, that activities can be financed, and that we recognize them in this law. Also, what I saw as a grudge is that the youth agency is asking the EU and that it is predicting such a document that it is about the elections. I'm afraid that this is an incorrect notification, because the formation of a youth agency depends on the status that the country has and that such an agency would be formed is necessary for the country to have candidate status first of all, and it has nothing to do with the elections when candidate status is obtained, it will create conditions for such a thing. What is still to be said is that the purpose of the Youth Agency is to use the programmes, the money that exists for mobility, and that someone here mentioned by the MPs, I think it was Elvira Kovac, that's the money that is available and that we can use, and we don't have to. If we have a youth agency, we can use the money available and, accordingly, we feel justified in establishing such a thing. I would especially like to thank the Parliament of the People's Parliament to Lidija Dimitrijevic, who said the Ministry of Youth and Sports has enough capacity. I thank you warmly, I think there is a serious intellectual capacity, I'm glad you've realized that. I have to agree with that. However, and I also thank you for saying that if you don't mind more employment at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I would like you to repeat that when there are next discussions on the budget, we could have more employees to support and support us as an opposition within that. Especially since the Youth Ministry and youth sports in the Youth Sector dealing with all these issues together with the assistant minister and secretary have a total of seven employees, which we think is certainly not enough, but I am very grateful that we have enough capacity, I think it is from our work and see. Also, what I wanted to point out are the comments I have heard that for example – young people have no understanding of the professor, I don't know why teachers are offended, I don't know why it's said that they don't have the understanding of teachers, that they don't have the understanding of parents, I think it's unnecessary to insult both teachers and parents in this context. Also, what is mentioned is that sanctions are needed when it comes to principles. In fact, MP Zlata Djeric mentioned that by citing the principles, some sanctions should also be provided. Indeed, I don't know, where, in which legislation she saw that principles could or can't be sanctioned and that predicted. Also, many and often mentioned local offices for young people. They are mentioned in the context of being a model for hiring people from a political party. I'll tell you that out of all the young people's offices he's got, like I said, he's 123, recruiting and selecting coordinators only by local self-government. So, the Youth and Sports Ministry doesn't affect human policy, so we have a situation that, for example, some who are from local self-government where the representatives of the SRS are, have their local youth coordinator, so we have the situation, in line with the DSS, has local youth coordinators, and here is the example, most famously, that the representative, the co-ordinator of the local youth office from Belgrade, is a member of one opposition party. I think it's the right approach and what's important is that such an approach is still being nurtured. The reason why representatives are chosen by local self-government and perhaps party members is because the local youth office has a central obligation to provide direct contact with the president of municipalities and therefore, sometimes, it is also welcome to be young people from some political parties. I also notice here in rhetoric, that it is said that more is said to be more, the approach is such that young people who are being hunted by political parties are in a way said to be able to abuse the influence of political parties on young people. I only have two comments here. The first question is, my request to review the number of MPs in this House is not a member of the political party. Since I know only about Mrs Gordana Rajkov, who is on the list of the URS and is not a member of the URS or of any party, all the other MPs are members of the parties, and I believe that this is justifiable and smart and that among other things, young people should be encouraged to join the political parties. I think it's entirely justified and I don't see how the Youth Act, whether it helps or challenges it. The Youth Act concerns youth care, unbound or not members of the political party. However, what is particularly striking is that young people are expected to constantly sanction and make them, to maintain some paternal approach to young people. Let me quote one finding of the National MP Zlata Đeric, who said – the young are not naive at all. I agree with this most deeply and ask the most beautiful speakers in the next debate not to underestimate the young and to bear in mind that they are not naive. Why am I saying this? Because those who listened carefully do not need to repeat it, but for those who did not listen carefully, this law is written on the initiative of young people in Serbia. That's why we started the consultation process and asked young people themselves what they wanted to be in their law. Young people themselves who, as you agreed, are not naive, unlike some MPs, did not ask the Ministry of Youth and Sports to come out of their jurisdiction and deal with other laws. Young people themselves did not ask for the health insurance issue to be regulated in their law, they did not ask their law to regulate the issue of unemployment. We did not close our eyes and this is an objective problem, but young people who participated in the consultation process did not require this from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Also, young people themselves did not ask us to deal with social policy and security policy, because they are aware that this is a law on youth rather than a law on social care, nor is this a law dealing with the security of young people or drugs and addictions. Anyway, I'm going to say it one more time, young people aren't naive. They participated in making this law more than the Ministry and do not underestimate them in further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56838	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. The word is made by MP Milan Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and representatives of the Ministry, I thank you first for closing in the previous discussion many of the dilemmas that I have given myself as a task in my speech, so I hope to be shorter and clearer. During today's debate, the great part of it, he reminded me of the words of a poet who says, "It's the hardest thing to write love poetry," because so many poets have already tried this work, so many love lyrics are written, it's very hard not to enter... . I'm sorry, the chairman, there's something going on in the Assembly that's distracting me as I speak. Thank you. He says that the most difficult thing to write is love poetry because so many poets have been tried in that branch, so many lyrics are written that you can hardly get out of the trap to not be pathetic, not to be unoriginal and to write something that is new and original. This debate today reminds me very much of something like that. It was very difficult for the MPs to get away from those traps to swear to young people, that they are our future, that we grieve over the problems they have, over unemployment, on drugs and alcohol in schools, etc. It's a problem, I admit it, but it's about time we said what we could do. Today, we have a bill on young people. As a member of the Working Group in the National Assembly, I have also participated in the drafting of this bill and I bear and part of the responsibility that the law is called the Youth Law, so it confuses many of my colleagues, thinking that he should solve all the problems concerning young people. There is no such magical law. The opposition may have such a bill, but show it and my voice you have for sure. I'll vote him very gladly, if you have a law that solves all the problems of young people. Perhaps in law we should prescribe that it is mandatory that all young people are happy, satisfied, employed, residential, but then it would be those laws as in "Stradija" by Radoj Domanović, who require wheat to produce fruit three times a year. Since such a law is not possible, let's see what's possible. We need to pass a law that meets the purpose and delivers results. This law does it. First of all, because it defines the framework for the action of young people in the sphere of their association, youth policy, professional work with young people, etc. I may have been too bureaucratic now, so I've used some expressions that aren't clear, but let's think about it and see what that law carries. The law first defines the pyramidal structure of youth policy or the youth sector. At the base of these pyramid structures are associations for young people and youth associations. I am very glad that the law distinguishes this distinction between the youth association and youth associations, i.e. youth associations and youth associations, because we had a bit of a strange situation that youth associations were very often led by people in later years, these are famous youth councils and alliances. I remember when I went to college, it was in 1998, right before the war, that we had a case with me in college that a young and student organization was run by a gentleman who went well in the fourth decade. That's why we need to know what youth associations are, which make up two-thirds of young people and youth associations. Also, basically the base of these pyramid structures are offices for young people at local level. Above that are the alliances in which these associations are joined and at the top, on the roof so-called. roof organization, one or more. I'm glad we didn't define by law that there was only one because it would be a monopoly and I wouldn't like it. It's possible to establish several roof organizations. Of course, at the top of the pyramid there is an alliance for young people. Why is it important for us to have this pyramid structure? Maybe someone thinks that we should make some anarchist system, a rebellious system, that there is no hierarchy, that there is no structure, but believe me, this is consistent with the needs of young people. When I had talks with youth representatives, they mentioned the formation of a roof organization as one of the most common requirements. It's about young people who do youth policy and who know what they need. This country doesn't make young people this way. On the contrary, it gives young people the opportunity to organize, through the legitimacy of memberships that are formed by roof organisations and to pressure the government and other youth policy entities to work in their interest. Also, this will allow for co-operation with international organisations, with roof organisations that exist across Europe and the world and will enable, I am quite sure, and additional funding of projects for youth from abroad. Of course, we do not want to finance ourselves from abroad, and that is why the law defines the criteria for funding programmes and projects of public interest in the youth sector. For funding projects from the Republic of Serbia's budget, only associations I mentioned, local self-government, which I am very pleased with, are those that have local offices for young people, scientific and research institutions and other legal entities. But I'd stick to these local self-governments that they have or don't have local youth offices. It's something that's caused a little turbulence today, and I expect the debate to continue to be a lot of the local youth office mentioned. The fact is that many young people's offices serve to accommodate party personnel, and that is what the minister said today. The fact is that many are poor or underwork, but it is also a fact that there are very good examples of young people who do a lot in their local environments, especially in small areas. The fact that there are negative examples does not delegitize the existence of an office for young people. They're needed, and I'm very happy that we've been able to get to that for the past few years. They are, in this law, sort of post-festum put into our legislation, and that is one of the reasons why I will vote for this bill. I will say one more time, and I will mention two words that cause heated reactions as I speak, which are the European Union. This terrible EU is very much thinking about young people, and within its Europe 2020 strategy, it has set up a Youth in Action programme that promotes youth mobility, travel, the creation of a common European identity, intercultural dialogue, informal learning, etc. All the things that young people need in Serbia. And that's why it's necessary to include them in those streams. It is the only policy and it is Serbia's only future. Otherwise, we can gather all the young people together in one place, make people happy, so we can shout out who doesn't understand this joy, he doesn't understand Serbia, let's all hands up, but when that joy passes that we'll have a nice time with the same problems we'll have and we won't move a step forward. As someone who was president of the Democratic Party's democratic youth, I am very glad that what we imagined and several years ago exists in Serbia today. In 2006, the democratic youth, I was not the president at the time, I am not advertising myself now, has brought a draft youth policy strategy. During 2007 before the formation of the government, together with the subjugation of some other parties and the NGO sector, we lobbyed for the formation of the Youth and Sports Ministry. That's when we and the representatives of young people and their associations said that we needed a roof organization. It is a roof that should protect all young people in Serbia. It is natural for the Democratic Party to support the Bill on Youth. The Democratic Party is, it is also its image, and the true state of the Democratic Party, there are a very large number of young officials, after all, we have here a dozen MPs who, when they became MPs, had less than 30 years. We give the most chance to young people and it is perfectly natural that this law concerns us and that we want to take another step forward in the formation of youth policy. I'd like to commend the way this law was written. This is not the obstructed law of some great mind, which he sat down to write, respecting all the problems that exist in society, one brilliant law. This law was written by the actors themselves, the ones most concerned by the fact of the law. So, young people and their associations. They also had the opportunity to have MPs, over 1,000 people wrote this law, which is why he has very few shortcomings or little. So, the ministry is doing its job, the Youth Committee is also doing its job, loving the Committee of the National Assembly, and this is not going to get rid of anything spectacular. It's not the idea of this law that in a month all the problems of young people are solved, but it is one step and it is a tool in the hands of young people to fight more for their interests. That's the point of this law, which is why it needs to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56840	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to participation in the debate, according to the schedule of the MPs declared for the word in the principled search and I give the word to the People's Parliament to Marija Bulgarčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56841	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will not speak of love poetry as a former colleague, I will leave it elsewhere. I don't think parliament is the place. The bill itself does not mean anything and does not bring anything into this country. It will not improve the lives of young people, will not provide young people with new jobs and will not reduce youth unemployment in this country. It won't allow young people or basic human rights, the right to happiness. At first glance, Madam Minister, it doesn't look like a law at all, you interpreted it at first, it looks more like a poem, so you interpreted it at the very beginning of today's session. We are the oldest European society with the highest percentage of young people who want to leave this country. We are the second country in the world, and the first in Europe in which young people want to leave this country. There's a problem. A young man when he graduates from college in this country has two wishes: either to leave this country or, if he is already sentenced to stay in this country, then to work in one of your ministries or another state institution. That's what hurts young people in this country. According to the latest studies, we are the country where the suitcases are packed by the most intelligent, most educated, and that's about 24% of the country's scientists and magistrates, who are planning to leave this country. I think in that regard, as in the last 20 years, we're going to have a big problem. As the level of education grows, so does the percentage of people who want to leave this country, so I would ask you to explain how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, as the competent minister, will slow down that trend and reduce the number of people who want to leave this country. We'll only feel an emigration wave in a few years and we'll also feel emigration when the percentage of the working population drops and then we won't need this law at all, then we'll have a country where only pensioners live. Everyone leaves this country with the idea that maybe someday they'll come back, that maybe in this country one day it'll be better. I don't see this country getting any better with this youth strategy. Every one of us in this room and in Serbia, there's someone who lives across: brother, sister, friend, family. Every third mother in Serbia wants to see her child, because her child does not live in this country, faces the fact that this is a lost country, that this is a country that has no future and does not care about its future. Between heart and mind, she takes over reason in every way and tells her that her child will certainly be better off in another country, in which institutions are respected, in which human rights are respected, and in which, finally, a young man has the right to happiness. This is a year of youth, we talked about it at the beginning, more precisely from 12 August last year to 12 August this year is an international year of youth. I think we've taken the last moment to adopt this bill that's on the agenda today. What is common for all young people in Serbia is that they cannot plan their future. What is missing for a young generation in our country is hope, hope for someone better tomorrow, for a better Serbia, for a better country and a better system. With a policy like this and a brain drain like this, I don't think we're going to get far, unfortunately. For decades back, the Ministry of Science has been trying to determine the number of young, smart, highly educated who have left this country, but we haven't had that data since the 1990s. We said that in principle we would adopt this law, we have submitted amendments to Articles 13, 16, 22 and 24, but we have one dilemma on Article 18, which says that local self-government can, in the context of its powers and needs, establish an office for young people. I'm afraid this article 18 will not be abused. There is a legitimate concern that if the law leaves complete freedom in local self-government, there will be no security and opening of youth offices. You said in the beginning that you opened 123 offices for young people. I think it's a state of play and it works on the ground somewhere around 30 young people's offices. I would like to set a positive example of the Belgrade Youth Office, which is one of the best examples in Serbia and the Belgrade Youth Office, has its own projects, it opened an info-rum, which you know what it means to young people in Belgrade. But that is not enough because, as you say in your principle in Article 6, and that is my favorite principle in this law – the principle of equal chances. I would ask you how it is possible for a young man to have an equal chance in Belgrade, in Vladic's Han, in Surdulica, in Luciani? Please explain to me exactly what you meant when you said "the principle of equal chances". For example, you have in Bor an example of the Youth Office, where the head of that office is your party second or whatever you call it, and he's a man who's over 30 years old, I know that it's not in the law that it's precise, but you should have in mind and that fact, who's just sitting in the office and receiving a salary that's at an annual level of around 306,000 dinars and absolutely no project, he's done anything for all these years. You have in Nis a Youth Council that works well, but I find it very impressive to say the Office for Youth in Vlasotanc, in Pogorevec, wherever you are in power there are more approved projects, more money than offices where you are not in power. I'm afraid the youth offices in Serbia don't become party prey of your party, because for days we've been watching you from G 17 plus, and it seems to me like we're all at the G 17 Plus rally that we're supposed to be listening to your promotional material and propaganda for the upcoming elections. It's a practical situation in Serbia. I am interested in the member, we have also submitted amendments to those members, in Article 16, we will talk about this when the debate is in particular, whether there is a report from the Youth Council, to which these councils will send reports based on their work. We have also proposed that the mandate in these councils be limited to a period of four years for the simple reason that young people, we will have the participation of more young people in these councils, not to entangle the same people, and then what kind of affirmation other young people from all over Serbia have to take part in this council. Article 24 is pretty confusing. He says the minister will be closer to determining the way and approval, programmes and allocations. I'm afraid there's no abuse for the reason they'll only get those offices where G 17 is now, since you're a G 17 plus representative, that they'll get the offices they have in their own G 17 plus, and then they won't get. I'm also interested in this, to answer me if you can, I have here a budget projection for the period from 2009 to 2014 that you brought in when you adopted the Youth Strategy. It is a good thing every year from 2009 to 2014 the funds allocated to young people are growing. I wonder if you as Minister have been monitoring this budget projection, and is this really a state of affairs, is it the full budget of how this is listed in this budget projection? I would like to say that this law will not improve the conditions of young people's lives, will not give them new jobs, will not allow them anything better, will not allow them to buy their first apartment. This law may be good because the beginning of something that will open up a new hope for young people, which I was saying at first, is a new turn for young people in this country I sincerely hope that the writing of this law did not involve colleagues from the PUPS, at first my colleague spoke, because we see the good things they left for us, with the greatest corruption. The only thing they did in the past was lead young people into wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56842	The Minister has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56843	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Since there have been a lot of questions that Bulgarian Parliament has asked, I will take the opportunity to answer some of them, since there will be opportunities and to answer others when the debate is in particular. Since you asked how we plan to prevent as a government brain drain, I cannot, of course, speak for the entire government, but I can tell you as president of the Youth Fund what the Republic of Serbia is doing since this fund is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is since 2008. Since then, 1.2 billion dinars have been invested in scholarship students studying in Serbia, up to a thousand of the best and students studying abroad. We also award high school students who won some of the most important places in the republican, international and world competitions, over 700 of them this year. In all, we have rewarded over six thousand young people so far, and this is how we try to let them know that work is worth it. However, we are also following the scholarships, so I will tell you that those who received a scholarship from the ministry in 2008-2009, most of them graduated, we have reports that they have graduated and fulfilled their responsibilities, and 282 young experts have already found a job. In this way, I'm not saying that this law will necessarily find a job for young people, it's not his purpose either, nor are the young ones themselves who took part in making the law asking us to do so. They will not, of course, find housing opportunities for these young people, but as I said, at least 282 experts from that generation who are among the best have already found a job. I don't know what number and what research you've found to work on exactly 38 local youth offices. I repeat to you that 107 local action plans have been adopted, of course based on the recruitment of young people from the youth offices, but I can give you an example that 98 youth offices participated in the youth enterprise project. You mentioned the Lucians, since you're probably very well aware of what it looks like in Požega. For example, there is an extraordinary local youth office that works very well with student parliaments. For example, the Požega student parliament, where there are also people from Luciana, who doesn't normally have an office for young people, so you probably don't even know what all the offices for young people are doing, but together, the Youth Office has managed to renovate with student parliaments a single tap. I was impressed by the efforts that young people had made to do, received funds, provided a way to refresh something that had existed before. I think that's very nice. I'll mention later what all the other youth offices are doing. For example, you said it was a mechanism for hiring a coalition or my individual party, and as an example, you cited the local Youth Office in Belgrade. I must remind you that a member of the LDP, a young member of the LDP, is the coordinator of that youth office. How can you publicly claim that this applies only to our coalition youth and how can you claim that funds are obtained only by those who belong to the coalition? You asked if we had any monitoring. I'll tell you right away that I'm very sorry that you didn't read the report adopted by the government, which refers to the implementation of the action plan for a strategy that says exactly what projects, how much funds were involved in making NGOs, which is the offices for young people, which is the ministries. In our strategy, 18 ministries also participated in the action plan, and they all contribute to the implementation of the strategy and, of course, their budget. The last thing I wanted to do was ask you, you said that according to the latest research, 24% of science doctors want to leave the country. Please tell me according to what research, how many samples were done and who was doing it, while you're quoting it in such an important place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56844	Thank you. There is no basis for replication, the minister replied. Please, don't interpret and don't be a spokesman for Mrs. Radeta, she doesn't really need it. Don't introduce an atmosphere that doesn't match the dignity of this home, please. Mrs. Bulgarci, you have your word. The vice president helps me, the minister actually gave you a cause, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56845	First of all, I'm sorry that Mrs. Secretary says I didn't listen very carefully. Of course I listened very carefully to you and of course I also read the projection of the budget that you unjustly accused me of not reading. I wouldn't have it here if I hadn't read it with all the reports, so much. I listened to you, of course. As far as the Youth Office in Belgrade is concerned, we have established this office and it was the only condition to support your coalition here in the city of Belgrade. And you are the minister of all citizens and all municipalities, not the minister of Belgrade alone. I must remind you that 70% of Belgrade University students want to leave this country. You didn't answer that, either. What I'd like to tell you is that Luciani doesn't have an office for young people, but there's no G17 plus there. They're in opposition. You are not in power there, Madam Minister, as the LDP is not in power. So I would ask you, when you are a minister, then help local self-government in Luciani to establish an office for young people and that young people from Luciana have the same chance, as young people in other towns in Serbia who have an office for young people, because they are not less valuable young people from Luciana, but young people from any other part of Serbia, and do not doubt their power that they cannot create any project.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56846	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56847	I'll take an example of Bucky Palanca, where, for example, It's not certainly G17 plus power, and neither do you, and yet they have a local youth office, and that's one good example for me how it can be done well. It's a good office for young people. I'm also asking you to distinguish between the budget projection and the report I was talking about. (Maria Bulgarian, from the place: I have it. ) Then you'd know how to apply it and you wouldn't ask me if we had monitoring because it was adopted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56848	It's obviously 1400 hours. It's time to rest. A break by 15.00 hours, and then the MP Zlata Djeric will have her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56849	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our session in the afternoon. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of the People will have the right to speak in a orderly manner by application of the word, and in principle, to review the proposal for a law on young people. The following has been reported to the National MP Zlata Djeric, followed by the National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Honorable Madam Minister, after the first session of today's plenary session, I failed to say everything I wanted to say as an objection to this law. I wasn't here to replicate, but I thought it was enough in this part to say what the Minister tried to answer my remarks. I took the example of BiH that passed the Youth Act. In the context of the members of this bill that has been proposed, that is, the bill that is before us and what we had as fundamental regrets, I would say another objection that I have about the Youth Council, I did not make in the first part of it. Article 16 where the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, educates the Council for Youth as an advisory body that encourages and coordinates activities related to the development, implementation and implementation of youth policy, and that is fine. Of course, such a body is welcome within the general strategy and concern for young people, to reduce the suspicion that we really want to resolve this issue. Then what I really think about young people is that the Youth Council is made up of representatives of a state administration body in which the area of interest for young people is part of a circle, it is in order in a certain number, the regional body of the administration responsible for issues of youth, associations, alliances, etc. Now he has attitude 3 that says "at least one-third of the Youth Council is made up of representatives of young people". Why one third, why, as in all counsel, should they not be fully represented? We're talking about 15 to 30-year-olds. Isn't there a representative of the state administration's authority who's under 30 and can be based on it? I really think that at least one-third, I know you'll say that you can do more. Why did we limit them? They should be there completely, in their intentions and in their competence we have no doubt at all. It's one of the things we had in mind. As far as criminal policy is concerned, simply a bill of law, the law must have conventional norms in order to be law, in order to be enforceable. It's nothing we want as representatives of the opposition to take as a flaw, but it's simply a rule. In order for the law to be applicable, it must, in order to be applicable in all members and to be beneficial to those to whom it applies, mean what will happen to those who do not abide by those rules. It's like that everywhere, it's like that in your sport, it's like that in traffic. We all know what happens when we go through the red and that's very clear. That's right here. Of the other remarks that we have put on concrete members of the law, let's say in Article 23, paragraph 5, this is about the distribution of funds in terms of the programmes and projects that we talked about today, more colleagues talked about. That's what justifiably worries us, sometimes it scares us, because we know how much abuse there was. We must not encourage young people to get some resources without real work. It's neither good nor educational. We must not devalue the value of the work in any way, we must not raise any other values and that it can be, and we already know how big it is about projects and getting easy money through projects. Therefore, the holder of the approved programme or project is obliged to recover the total amount allocated to the donor in the event of non-purpose use of the funds, but nowhere is the law provided for – what if it does not do so. That's why I'm telling you that these standards were very necessary, necessary, and whatever you're going to tell me that there are other laws that regulate it, yes, there are other laws that regulate all of this. So, then we don't need this law either, because there's already a Law on Associations and everything else. These are some things that, if there is a law, it must be concrete, because I see that in the law of the Republic of BiH they have made it very clear. Article 26, which says one of the things that remains at will, makes no one bound. He says "the financing of the needs and interests of young people in local self-government units is carried out in accordance with the interests and needs of local self-government units and its economic capabilities". It absolutely doesn't commit anyone to anything, it's a matter of absolute goodwill and can be interpreted very broadly, and let me tell you, it can be misused, because local self-government units are still forming political parties. We should have tried again, going back to this good example of BiH, to protect the young from politicisation and leave them to create themselves, so it will be of benefit to us. We have an obligation to protect them from any ill-functioning and to only direct them to see their needs properly, clearly and clearly in the future. We're leaving, they're coming. It's a one-way road where nothing can be done, so we have to respect it as such. I'll read you article 32. The youth law in BiH, which reads: "Political parties cannot be the founders of youth associations, the youth association cannot be engaged in any way in the pre-election campaign of political parties, coalitions and independent candidates, nor support them. Political parties cannot in any way, materially and financially, support the work of youth associations." That's what a key member is in one of these laws. These are the fundamental remarks that we have put through amendments and through discussion, expecting that very objectively and very well-intentioned and the minister to the amendments of all MPs, because I see that there have been amendments submitted by party representatives representing the ruling majority. That way we can come to a really good solution together. No matter how much I respect the fact that a large number of young people were involved in the creation of this law, in a law that is truly pioneering and in these places, so we heard in the places of Europe, never enough good intentions, good desires. I think we can all contribute to him being applicable, that's definitely our goal. If we only had it on paper and we could tell someone that we have that law, it's weak. We know what we are facing in everyday life and we know what is an increase in violence, we know how many young people are exposed and what is the damage from night outs from 23.00 to 05.00 in the morning that the entire EU has sanctioned, and we are silent about it. So, we don't take on some of the key things as a society. We do not have the right to close our eyes and not to activate ourselves, and certainly this law should be an incentive to worry, that we all engage and not only be in the pre-election year one political story, that it does not end up just on some campaign flyers and propagating certain political parties, rather than really folding our sleeves and doing something better together and safer for all those to whom we leave this country. We didn't conquer her as property, we inherited her from our ancestors, and we leave her to our descendants, just like with planet Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56851	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Momo Colakovic, has the right to replicate as the president of the parliamentary group for the presentation of the Bulgarian People's Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56852	The President-in-Office, the presidency, the honourable minister, the government's representatives, the honourable MPs, I respond to the presentation of Bulgaria's honourable MPs, in the pre-departure presentation. She literally said, "I sincerely hope that the writing of this law was not attended by colleagues from the PUPS," my colleague, Dr Krpić, said at first, "because we see the good things that they left for us -- with the greatest corruption, the only thing they did in the previous period was that young people led to war". I explicitly and vigorously reject all the inappropriate accusations and words this distinguished young colleague has made here. It is inappropriate to say that PUPS has committed, and PUPS was formed in 2005 as a political party. It is inappropriate to say for the people sitting here in parliament that they led their children to war. My son has the consequences of the war, and I certainly didn't send him to war. We're proud of all of us, the five of us sitting here, of what we did during the period you were talking about. You have no right to insult. We have participated in the preparation of this law, and we will vote for this law because we believe that young people should have a chance. In the corruption you're talking about, no MP has participated in any PUPS member. We're proud of what we did, how we created the state. You have no right to do so, I protest, and I ask the Head of the Assembly to react to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56853	The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic. You're looking for a right to a replica? (Maria Bulgarian, from the place: Yes. ) National MP Momo Colakovic quoted a part of your speech and was given the right to reply as president of the parliamentary group. If you think you need to explain what you said, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56854	I wanted to explain what I said, dear colleague. It wasn't my intention to insult you from PUPS, but simply as a generation that was before us I paid attention to what we were left with, what we currently have in this country. Not you as a PUPS, it's irrelevant when you're formed, but the simple years you have tell me that you were a generation before us and that this country remains for us young people of your elders. That was my thought. I think you've twisted out of context what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56855	National MP Momo Colaković will be entitled to a replica, and before that I would ask you, I cannot call on the Rules of Procedure, that if we can avoid generalization in addressing each other and listen to ourselves as we use generalization in trying to present our arguments stronger. National MP Momo Colaković, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56856	Dear Presidents and the Presidency, Minister, honourable MPs, I have quoted your words, I have not paraphrased anything. That's inadmissible. Read the stenogram of what you've said. I don't allow you to treat us like this, and we didn't deserve anything. We're decent people. My generation is proud and proud of everything I've done in this country. The period you're talking about, none of us took part. I am a proud official from the period of Yugoslavia. You have no right to compare me with generations or anyone responsible for the situation. You don't have the right to put one game that was formed a few years ago in the context of the troubles that happened in the '90s. You have no right to talk about people and corruption and to tie us up about it. No MP of the PUPS took part in this, and for this I warned that you had no right to do so, and I expected your apology, which was missing. I think that would be the least possible measure for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56857	The People's MP Nikola Krpić came forward. National MP Momo Colakovic has been given the right to reply as president of the parliamentary group. I hope we've made it clear what's been said and that in the exchange of replicas so far, everything's been clarified. The word has a folk letter Jelena Travar-Miljević, followed by a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56858	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, will start with something that says that in the first phase of the process, including local offices for young people, 45 round tables took place at which about 1,500 young people from youth organisations and local institutions participated. Taking into account the results of this process and the regulated analysis of domestic and European legislation, the first working text of the law has been drawn up. In the second phase of the consultation process, 29 round tables were held in Serbia's districts with over 1,000 participants, after which a draft law on youth and a implemented public debate programme was drawn up between 29 November and 18 December 2010 through six round tables. Why did I read this? Because I believe this is a difficult way to pass a bill, because I believe it takes a lot of time and a lot of energy and because we rarely ask those whose law concerns what that law should look like. I think we should commend all the factors and participants because everyone is given a chance and a chance to create what needs to be created better tomorrow, and we are here to represent those to whom this law is being touched. As mentioned several times, this is a pioneer law. I would call it a roof law for young people and, in addition to the first signal sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, by adopting the National Strategy for Youth and Action Plan for the implementation of the same strategy, this should be the first signal from this high house where we talk about young people, and I would also express my satisfaction that, regardless of which political party we belong and whose representatives we are, we are equally concerned about young people, only our views may be different in how it should look and how it should be implemented. I would also remind us that this law defines the measures and activities undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, the units of local self-government, if they aim to improve the social position of young people and create conditions for meeting the needs and interests of young people in all areas, which are of interest to young people. I would also remind us of a recommendation, namely the fact that it was presented in 2002 by the Belgrade office of UNICEF in Belgrade, and otherwise you can find this quote in the National Youth Strategy, which says – that there is much to be expected from young Republic of Serbia. First of all, to be in the front lines of transition events and to actively contribute to decision-making processes. But at the same time, decisions on their lives are made elsewhere. I believe that we will agree that for the first time in 2008, young people have been given the opportunity not to make those decisions elsewhere and that they were then given the first opportunity, as in this process during the draft of the law, that they make their own decisions and that they themselves say that something that regulates their life, their tomorrow, should look. The fact itself -- 1500 young people in the first round and 1,000 in the second, which makes 2500 thousand people not a bit negligible. I certainly must point out that we all talk very often about how young people leave villages, how young people leave small communities, how are we here to prevent it and we certainly are, because we are the ones who create state policy, but we should certainly say that we are never these young people until recently, or, until a few years ago, we asked how they see it, preventing their departure from this country and from our environments? I think this law provides an institutional mechanism, which is exactly his role in creating a framework and making recommendations for young people to talk to on a republican, regional, local level with policy makers. If we are talking about the local level and if we have co-ordinators in the youth offices, who together with the Youth Council are building a local action plan for young people, which represents both the president of the municipality and the members of the municipal council, where they get a chance to directly participate and talk to the leaders of these places and those places where they live and to create that part of their lives that I believe they don't want to leave, then I'm sure we can reach a consensus about this law. Once again, before the voting day, I ask you to think carefully and to support this law, because it really creates frameworks and gives guidance for the work of young people, and young people themselves took part in its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56859	Five minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. After her, the folk emissary of Jadranka Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56860	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will begin with the data. Today, about a million and a half young people live in Serbia, so young people and compared to those, if we take 2,500 thousand, if we conditionally add that these are two types of young people, that number is much higher. That number of millions and a half of young people is about 20% of the population of this country and we, as a country in general, have to worry about this fact. There should be at least so many more. I also have to say the fact that young people are a very sensitive social category, a social group that needs very much the support of the whole society, because practically, society has put in front of young people a very large obstacle that they cannot overcome without that support of society and to engage in social activities the way we want them to. On the other hand, I can welcome the adoption of a law that would apply to young people. But I have to say something about these thresholds, these obstacles that we put before young people on a daily basis consciously or unconsciously. Let's start with education, from the fact that a group of young people are not even involved in secondary education, from that many of those who are supposed to be schooled in colleges and high schools are unable to attend school, even though you speak wonderfully of the principle of equality and equal opportunities here. What I'm saying is that a number of young people simply don't have the same chances for some other reasons that, of course, are not the abilities of these young people and the desire to get involved in social flows. Here, when it comes to education, and that's what I was talking about, I remember when you represented the Sport Act here, but for me it's a painful fact that I want to talk about, because it's talking about how young people should be educated and how they should contribute to their country, it's only put into one floscule – it ends Megatrend and deletes and falls. I'm sorry, that's not my jargon. Another major obstacle, perhaps huge, is youth unemployment. Young people are the social category that has the biggest unemployment problems. That is, among the unemployed is the most young. Let's talk about a third social obstacle called health care and the right to the health care of reproductive organs. The other day I came up with a data that really scared me personally and as a woman – 3000 young girls and girls, aged 15 to 19 years, every year in Serbia does not plan to stay pregnant and carry out a deliberate termination of pregnancy. So, violent and deliberate termination of pregnancy. It's 6% of all violent terminations of pregnancy that take place annually in this country. I'm sorry, what are we talking about, when we're talking about protecting this population, if we're not capable of protecting them? That I'm not talking about a drug that we don't like to talk about, or alcoholism that we don't like to talk about, considering it's a problem for others and when in the media there's a problem like some alternative treatment, it's a play that ended very quickly. Let's talk about social policy and the inadequate involvement of social services and local communities in creating social support mechanisms and integration of young people in society. A very large number of young people are a kitchen user because they have no job, no where to make money and live. Let's talk about youth culture. That's a very interesting subject. Do we have standards for that? What do we want to pass on to our young generations? It is very nice to say – young people will choose for themselves. I'm sorry, I think we're like society and we're like MPs, and how we owe it to think about what we're offering them as models. I'm not sure the models should be from the Silicon Valleys and the singers who advocate all sorts of things. Let's talk about equal rights and how young people use free time. Let's talk about sports. Do they have the same chance – how many parents today, how many percent of parents can escort their talented child into the field of sports? We talked about it when you represented the law. These are our topics that we need to talk about when we talk about young people. I just said some of the obstacles. I can talk to you for so long, because I am aware of these obstacles and because I am both a mother and a professional who deals with that area, and how conscious of the obstacles that society has set and just made it impossible for young people to integrate into society. There is no dispute, this is a very important area and the question is – has it been arranged so far and how has it been arranged so far in Serbia? Yes, it was arranged in part and on quite different aspects. In fact, we have the Law on the basis of the education and education system, we have the Family Act, we have a series of laws regarding health care, we have laws on associations of citizens, we have the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Sports, the Law on Labour and, after all, we have the Law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors. These are all laws that apply in part to young people. These laws are not about defining the position of young people, which is what this law is about to do. In fact, these laws deal with the needs of young people and deal with the general rights of young people who are, after all, a constitutional category. Does Serbia need a special law for young people? I have already stated that many areas are practically, relating to various populations, different groups of people in Serbia, partly arranged. Most countries, including countries that we prefer, as a country, because it is the only state policy that Europe has no alternative, actually has no specific law on young people, but we can't say that they haven't dealt with and regulated this area in different ways and that they have quite arranged this area. One France, one Austria, the UK and how they take care of, I guess, their young and they didn't leave them on the street and they didn't say – we don't care because there's no special law on them. There are countries that have a law on young people, and that concept is fine, as far as I'm concerned. What I do, as someone professionally involved, and as much as I like, is the concept that Germany made, Germany that passed the law in 2002, and to this day only changed it with three amendments. A law which, according to me, is good and if our law were similar to that law, I would really vote for that law. So, this law that looks the most, according to what I've been looking at, and I've really dealt with it seriously, in Romanian law, means some in the environment, it's pretty declarative, quite a broad legal framework, and one and the other have bodies that predict the central and local competences that young people need to provide for activity. Both have a very similar way of funding the public activities of young people, both of which have the formation of councils and local bodies. So if we look at the concept, these two laws are very similar. But to go back to this model that I listed which, as far as the DSS is concerned, is a very good model, a German model, which we think is very important that you looked at it and you looked up to it. I expect you to tell me later why this model didn't come across your wider interest and simply because, in my opinion, it's good. You said last time we argued that the Sports Act was too wide. Well, you have to admit 169 members, according to 29, today is quite a difference. This law has 29 members. It is not a matter of the number of members, nor of whether it is difficult for MPs to read the great law or whether it seems that some area is unedited when there are few members. That's not the point at all, because here's the law I'm praising you and I suggest you look at it, that you looked at it before our draft came here, our proposal. The law has only 30 members, but it deals essentially with those topics that are for German society and for German youth and how important they are. One of these is the night visit to the restaurant, from when to when, with whom he can. One of them is the ability to consume alcohol and tobacco products. We're not gonna say that that's not the problem with us and that some other law regulates it. Then, what is very important is that the German law protects young people from the influences of media and places and events that can harm them, to negatively affect them. They also have a federal commission to examine the content of movies, comic books, books, and everything else for young people. Who's doing this to us? What kind of movies do our young people watch that we recommend? What do our young people read? Look at the lines where you buy newspapers, what you can read there. You're saying the opposition is proposing punishment. No, I don't. But he suggests that we know exactly whose jurisdiction is and what happens when someone does not respect their authority, or when he deafens himself to it. That's what we think is important because, I'm sorry, there are different people in different places. Not everyone is extremely responsible and well-intentioned. We had a chance to track how many teachers there were paedophiles. We have a chance to read how many coaches did that or that. So let's not count on benevolence when we introduce laws. Let's bring them in so that we know clearly who's responsible for what his jurisdiction is, as long as it goes down and what happens when he doesn't do his job right. We all agreed on how important this area is to us, we all agreed that youth is what it really is worth to use all of our knowledge to get this law passed and to settle. Let me look into the law, in the very draft of the law, you like to say about this law on the grounds that Lex is special. The explanation says, please, on page two – it is a matter of identifying whether the issue of young people will be regulated within the framework of general system laws that regulate certain areas or will be regulated by a youth Lex specialis law – it literally writes. Let's take it from here that you think it's that lex specialis. In Article 1, you say - this law regulates the measures and activities undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and the units of local self-government aimed at improving the social position of young people and creating conditions for achieving the needs and interests of young people in all areas of interest for young people. Are you going to tell me that these areas I have listed are not of interest to young people? I would think twice before I wrote it, since groups of young people came here, that they were breaking your city, that they were asking to enter into the Law of Higher Education this or that provision, not to go into what they were looking for and how they were looking for it. I just want to tell you -- and how interesting they are for young people. Are you telling me that the area of tuition, which is so high in colleges and how important it is for young people? Of course it's important. You are now precise in Article 2 and you say – youth policy is a total of all measures and activities, I do not know about the Serbian directory "community", state bodies, institutions, associations and other entities that are aimed at improving and improving the position of young people. Especially here, I'm apostrophe of the word "association." You can only talk about those associations that will apply for projects and which will be paid from the budget. When we talk about the principles that you have stated here, I can support all of your principles. They are indeed in line with all international documents. It is obvious that this law had in mind everything the UN has brought, especially that it brings practical and proposes in the year of the UN's youth promotion because this year by 12 August is practically a year of youth and that's fine. But how will you respect the principles? I don't see in the law that you respected those principles. When you say - young people have the right to equal chances, believe me, everyone doesn't give a shit what it says. It says wonderfully, indeed, and as far as the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination is concerned, they're all the same principles and they're great, and we're the only ones who still have discrimination in society, and we especially have discrimination against young people when we talk about this law. So, principles are great, only they don't commit anyone. Chapter 3 – Associations that carry out youth activities. I already said you followed everything that came out of the UN. We were particularly talking about Resolution 64/134 here, and that's fine. But in this third chapter, you have entered the area of the Law on Associations of Citizens. You're sorting this area, and it's already arranged. It's a law that's been arranged. There's no reason for you to edit. What's particularly controversial is that you want to keep a record and prescribe what it should look like, and it's already been given in the Law on Associations of Citizens. Look at the members of that association. There's no reason there are two different records now. Why would two ministries keep records? We have a problem with a huge country. We have a problem with large-scale officials who need to be paid, now the two ministries need to keep track of who all the organizations exist, when the Ministry of State and local self-government are already with some extras, as you've expanded it now. In the light of the law, you say that there won't be any extra money in this year, but I would say, for local self-government, at least the ones I looked at, I looked at four in the Colubary County, and how much it takes, and that in no case will it be possible to further engage for these programs, for the youth offices, which I wouldn't say what my colleague said, representing the law. He said they were illegal by now, so now you're putting them in a position to become legal. If they can, according to their needs, they will tell you immediately, we have suffered from the city because you did not provide the missiles to protect us. We have to pay people. It won't be for the youth. I listed one priority that was the other day. It won't be for the youth, I'm telling you. Then, you plan to set up an agency and explain that on the way to Europe and the moment you become a candidate, an agency must be set up to implement youth programmes in line with EU programmes. I don't know which country can pay anymore? I have to tell you, I don't know if you're familiar with that fact, we're an over-indebted country, Madam Minister. There's no way that in a budget like this, even if they put it in a pre-election position, so anything can come out of that budget, there's no way this can be done. What I really miss about the law, first of all, is that these are old-fashioned definitions, and I'm wondering if you have any adolescents? Or your young people are put in the same position, all 15 to 30, so as a matter of fact, they all have the same needs. They don't. I would ask you to take a look at our amendment, and we wrote 25. The DSS is dissatisfied with the concept of this law. He's empty, he's pretty, he's declarative, he's going to be very hard to implement. What I hear from MPs who support this law is that this law will bring a much better quality life for young people and their involvement in social activities. I think when they say that they speak about those young people already involved through political parties whose representatives talk about it. You yourself mentioned a man who's from the opposition party, and he's head of the youth office, if that's even the opposition party, but that's not the point. It is not a matter of political youth representing the offices of young people in some places because it has a direct passing towards the president of the municipality. It ruins the concept you presented the other day. It's not right. Excuse me, the mayor is the mayor of all citizens and all young citizens, and those who represent a body, an institution, and how they should get to him, and how they should get to all those who make decisions. Therefore, there is no need to be representatives of my party, of your party or of any other party. They're just doing their job. And in the locals you also have how creative and top-notch young people who just because the offices are so profiled don't want to participate in creating a future for their city's youth. I'll tell you 25 names, obvious, in my town of Valjev. So we find this law inadmissible. So much has been said of him, so much we expected from him, so much public debate has passed, and I must say, this law is not the crown of what was said in these public debates. This law is far worse than all the plans you've presented, and I don't think it can really be something that will change the lives of young people. He can be just as he is and not be. Nothing will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56861	It was used 20 minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Snezana Markovic-Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56862	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is true and I must agree with MP Milica Vojić-Markovic that this law is not entirely what was presented in the public debates, but it is simply because it had to be consistent with the wishes and possibilities. In addition to being at these public debates that we talked about, it means, when the work version was created, then the draft law, then the public debate under the programme, he later had to go through iteration in the ministries, meaning opinions, and to fully comply with what our positive legislation is. It is true that this law could not fully be an expression of all those desires that were made in public debates. I'll look back on the two things you mentioned. The first question is whether municipalities can or can't, whether they want to set up youth offices at all because they're only given the possibility and not the obligation. I will tell you that even before there is a bill, of 167 municipalities in Serbia, or 170, we have 123 offices for young people. It means that a percentage of the number of municipalities has already shown institutional readiness to deal with youth policy regardless of the lack of money. I'll take the opportunity to mention an example that not only party personnel are employed in youth offices or youth offices. A good example is Bačka Palanka, which I have already mentioned, where, although one opposition party is in power, there is a local office for a young employee who is completely impartial. So it's possible and it happens both in positional and opposition municipalities, if I can call them that. But what I would especially like to say as a second example, next to the local youth offices, I think it's very good because you mentioned it, right from Valjev. There is an extraordinary youth activist that is not related to the political party. For example, you have an exceptional society of young researchers "Vladimir Mandić Manda". It has nothing to do with us, it has to do with the Youth Ministry and sports that have helped them a lot. A remarkable example of youth activists is that the students of the technical school began to build a pool in the atrium of the technical school and the Ministry of Youth and Sports helped. Of course, it's totally unbiased, and both of them are examples of activism. Why would I bring that up? Not only would I show you how much the Ministry works, but it does, or that I know or don't know that area, but I would like to illustrate once again how important the activity of young people is. And this law right now applies, first of all, to the activity of young people. Of course, he can't solve all the problems. We haven't even tried that, especially because of a number of laws that already refer in one way or another to youth policy issues which are within the jurisdiction of other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56863	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56864	Thank you for the replica. You've set an ideal example. In a municipality in which the opposition is in power, it may well be that one who is a non-party figure is headed by the youth office. But I'm absolutely sure, and I'd like you to deny me, that there is no community where the coalition is now in power and that it's in the office of a young non-party person. It doesn't exist. Except - it doesn't exist. When you tell me that municipalities recognize the need to help young people and young people engage in social activities, they are on paper. That's what I'm telling you. You know it as well as I do. There are those who understand very well what it's about and recognize youth activists, against whom of course I have nothing. I know very well how much it takes and I know very well that this law is precisely working on that it is a political activism and not a socially needed activism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56865	The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56866	Researchers in Valjev have been around for decades, and they have nothing to do with this law. There is indeed youth activists in Valjevo and not only youthful, because many, from small legs to very old people, work well and how well they cooperate. That's why I'm talking about there's no need for the Ministry to recognize it now. He can help them with the money, and that's his duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56867	The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56868	Thank you. Of course it's our duty to help everyone and do it, but we're taking the opportunity to state, since you asked for it, and with great certainty you said it was impossible, to mention an example where the majority coalition is in the power of a municipality, and where, for example, it's a non-partisan member, or co-ordinator of the Youth Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56869	National MP Jadranka Jovisic has a word after her, MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56870	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, is today ahead of us a topic that MPs of the Democratic Party have a lot to say, but the topic of which the Democratic Party in the past, above all, has said a lot in its works. Today I will talk about this law precisely because it is clear how important it is to support young people in the organization, in social action, the wider, the bigger indeed, involvement of young people in all spheres of society. I will say that the Democratic Party has recognized really these issues as significant and in the past it has shown, so first and foremost in practice, among the MPs of the Democratic Party, when this assembly was formed there were ten MPs under 30 years of age. So 10 MPs entrusted with a truly significant function, precisely to gain experience and knowledge, to help young people and to participate in law-making processes, their remarks, their amendments that are always welcome, especially when young people are concerned. What's also significant is that there are a large number of really young people in local self-government, people who work to make life better, above all. In this sense we are talking today and we are going to bring this law, it is not a major change, but it is certainly a step forward. I have to express my satisfaction that the law has passed a really wide public debate, so all the relevant facts have been at stake and everyone has agreed on one, so everyone has agreed on a common goal that it is really very important to support youth organisations, to support the social functioning and active inclusion of young people in all areas of society. It is also very important to respect the principles that are therefore set out in this law equal chances for these active participations of young people in responsibility, solidarity, etc. That's something I would agree with some of my colleagues today, certainly it doesn't have to be prescribed by law, but here it is and it's not burned and mentioned in the law. What is also important to say that the law further recognises the national strategy for young people, recognises youth associations, as well as youth associations, so in the youth organization we have one pyramid structure for youth associations can be organised into alliances. We can also form trial alliances, therefore, alliances that have over 60 registered associations that deal with youth work for more than two years and have up to 2,000 registered members. So two-thirds must be done by young people. They simply have to form trial alliances and I think it's good, and I think that's what all the youth organizations really are and said in the previous period. What is important is to say that the law also knows advice for young people, offices for young people and youth agencies. When it comes to advice for young people, it is organised and formed by the Serbian government and is an advisory body. I think it is important to say that there will be people who have been experts who have been working on youth policy for many years, but that there will be one third of young people sitting on that youth council. It's also said here today that it may be small, but I think it's enough and it can be more, which is quite all right. What I would not like is for the role of the Youth Council to remain just a letter on paper, or for the role of the Youth Council to be achieved only by this law, but not in practice. I would not like it to be just something that the MPs will discuss and remain registered, but that will not really be applied. When it comes to young people's offices, I'm going to have to share the impressions that my colleagues have today, most of my colleagues. Of course, it's good to have as many young people's offices as possible and of course it's good to spread that network and of course it's good for young people to be active and have one office, even in the smallest places. I'm really afraid that in certain cities, certain local governments of the youth office have actually become an instrument of political parties to achieve their goals and that, as coordinators very often, I don't say in all, people who are members of the youth of political youth, etc. I think it's important that we really free the office for young people from political parties, and I hope that in the coming period, this will be achieved to some extent. What's the problem with young people's offices is maybe some bad communication with local self-government. I don't think there's enough good communication, especially local authorities with coordinators. It is clear that there is often no funding. We understand that very often there is a problem in money. When a good communication creates a good relationship with the offices of young and local self-government, that can really start the whole process from a dead spot and the slightest shift is really important. In those places that are truly underdeveloped, good communication, the deal can do a lot. What is important, the law also prescribes the establishment of a youth agency. A lot of people in this room get creeped out when they say "age." However, what is important is that we will form a youth agency, that is, the moment when we become a candidate country, or candidate for the EU. It is important that the agency exists, no matter how much some of my colleagues do not like the term here, but it is simply important that it exists because it will be a body through which EU programmes for young people will be implemented. All youth organisations operating in these areas will have to be informed about the programmes that the EU gives us or which are available to it through this agency. It's very important that she exists. I don't think there's any need for anyone to be skeptical about it. I would not like, again, to say that its existence is the mere existence of the law itself, but that it is truly living in practice. What I'd like to add in the end is again about this topic, we live in time to reality the program, we live in a society where there's often more important news of who got back together and who got divorced from whom. We live in a time where, regardless of what young people consider, the minister today said they are not naive, they understand very well what politics means, very often watch the transmissions of congregation sessions. I must say, I would hate for my peers to ask me in the future who was insulting me today in Parliament. I would like and I really want all MPs to work on the issues that are being asked to me and all of us by the laws in Parliament, which are important and what is current in Parliament this day. With that in mind, I'd like to appeal to my colleagues, say to the people, never do anything your mother wouldn't approve of. Well, I'd never like my colleagues to do anything, which is why they'd be ashamed of some younger people watching a broadcast in front of their kids and other kids. It is also very important that we think about young people. Let's also show that in this House examples that will be good in the future. I thank you and we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56871	Seven minutes and ten seconds used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Milovan Radovanovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that in this room, regardless of political and party belongings, we all have great care for our youth, or young, and not only for those who have spent 15 to 30 years of their lives, but also for those over 30 years of life who, above all, have stayed or had no job. The expectations of many that this bill on young people will at least solve some of the issues remain unfortunately empty. The bill of youth absolutely does not solve any problems in principle for our young population. I understand, Mrs Samardzic-Markovic, you obviously had similar laws in mind when making work material of the draft and this bill in certain countries of Europe. However, the situation and circumstances in Serbia are quite different, without talking about it, so as not to waste time. That's where the economy, industry and agriculture are developed. We have an underdeveloped economy and industry and agriculture. We are still a country in transition, what our conditions are, where we do not have a developed private sector and where there is a party public and we cannot treat this problem the same way as they treat it in the countries of Western Europe. Since this bill treats the population from 15 to 30 years old, which accounts for 20% of the total population, or according to the 2002 figures, about a million and a half inhabitants, the conditions for their social performance, the term you use in this bill are, above all, we in the SRS consider something of school, conditions for employment, and that is the most important and most fundamental and resolved housing issue. In this bill, a mistake is in the very approach, in the concept of the proposal. You're setting up a relationship and you can get out of this, on the one hand, young people and youth policies, as you say in law, state, AP, local self-government units, on the other hand, youth or youth. The whole concept, I would just ask fellow MPs from PUPS and SPS not to mind me, looks like the former, former concept of a socialist or communist youth alliance. Personally to me, believe me, without any ill intention of demeaning this bill of yours and yours obviously effort, not yours personally, but your associates to come to this bill. The principle of support provided by youth policy subjects, who support young people, in what? I only see here in the physical growth of that youth, in nothing else. Obviously, a separate relationship is being placed here on one side of youth policy entities, on the other side of youth, or youth, which is wrong. In principle, there is something that, in my opinion, as an SRS MP, is not acceptable. The principle of support, I have already said, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, the dark work, it's all right because all young people are equal, the principle of equal opportunities – the title of principle is perfectly fine and in place, but the problem is that there are no chances. Are they equal in real chances or something that is impossible? Let's just say, 10 young people need to get a job, and there's no way. What are their chances? In something that absolutely doesn't exist as reality. Or the principle of responsibility and solidarity of young people, the care of social values. Now the question is, I don't want in this comment – social values – to offend anyone. Gay population, it's their private matter, I'm bothered by their advertising. Is that the social value of young people aged 15 to 30 or the persecution of patriots defending their country, their extradition to The Hague? Is this the social value to be learned by young people, Vojislav Seselj, Ratko Mladic, and Slobodan Milosevic, who today, on June 28th, on Vidovdan, 10 years after DOS handed him over to The Hague? Are these social values – honesty in performing state affairs? I am sure, Mrs. Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, that you will agree with me, that fair work in every business, especially in public affairs, is something that represents a social value that we should teach young people. Now the question – how to do some people's national jobs, I don't generalise, some people came to a large amount of money, with aunts on the couch and suddenly at Meridian Bank 10.7m euros, so Bozidar Djelic transferred them to the Netherlands or Tomislav Nikolic, this one, as they call it, Gandhi from Bajcetina, suddenly became one of the richest people in Serbia, they should explain to young people how it comes to work and to couples. They need to explain whether it's social value. Afirmite volunteer work at social value, volunteer activities in Article 9. It's a bill of law. What about hiring? What about professional work that requires all citizens, including young people from 15 to 30 who are willing to start a family, to live on professional work? That's why young people in large numbers go abroad. That's the only reason. Well, there's no work here, and abroad is doing better, and it's more appreciated by their profession. Youth associations and youth associations, councils, offices. Youth offices, I know an example from a local self-government, what it does, what it does. This is one prospectus, a brochure, I can give it to you later, where it propagates the Youth Party Office, camps, where it explains to young people that the Youth Office is an organization or unit of local self-government through which local youth policy is created and implemented. What do young people get by setting up a youth office? We all need to understand each other and to support ourselves, to applaud, and to create conditions for young people, to school, to hire, and to create a family, to provide housing conditions for their further life or access to information. This is the work of the Youth Office, and that individuals use the Youth Office for their jobs or as a possible relationship, a springboard for employment elsewhere, it stands. I'm not going to say that at the level of government in the Republic, cases of local self-government have been repainted, because local self-government is not everywhere in the government of that party that is being violated at the republican level, but it is being used as a abuse. The public sector, we have to admit, regardless of whether anyone participates in us, whether the parties that are in power or in opposition, are politicised by a party, is a fact. A concern for young people by the state, I have already stated, is the security of education, free or cheap, hiring and resolving housing issues for young people. This is a condition for all conditions and for the purpose of your Bill on Youth. If there are no previous conditions in these three points, basically, then there is no sense in the existence of such a bill standing before us. If the state provides basic conditions for young people's lives, they will organise the rest themselves, free activities, entertainment, entertainment, and special sport activities. As resolute minister, you know it well, follow that area, from school sports, through amateur and professional sports, and you know, I'm sure you share my opinion. The direction of young people in this direction towards sport is both spiritually and physically very healthy, not only for those individuals, but for the entire community. You're talking about parallel law, so you set an example from Germany. Germany is an industrial country, a developed economy, a high social standard, but they speak of concerns about the protection of young people, theatres, cinemas, alcohol, night outs, restaurants, all these bans and restrictions, but especially about the protection of young people from the media. Media in Serbia are indoctrination in favour of the parties in power both at the national and local level, regardless of which parties. We cannot provide young people or other citizens of Serbia with objective and realistic information. Sadly, we live in such a country, and under such circumstances we care for young ones. Finally, this proposal does indeed involve ideological indoctrination where some new values are imposed, such as, if at all we can talk about values, Euro-Atlantic organisations, the North-Atlantic military alliance or the NATO Pact, the globalisation system, Harry Potter, the advertising of gay populations, analyticalism, the EU and other anti-state and anti-Serb heat. For a law like this, we in the SRS really don't understand, and I'm sure we won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56873	Eleven minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56874	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. I would just like to point out that in some of the elements of my presentation, Mr. Radovanovic was right to state the differences between Serbia and our country and Germany, because, the truth is that he is an uncompared industrial country than we are, and the truth is that since 1990 they have had a law that deals with young people, more specifically with youth policy elements. However, I will tell you, it is not us, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, who cited this as an example of good practice, but was cited by a colleague from the DSS, Milica Vojic-Markovic. I ask you to discuss with her what needs to be discussed and what should not be taken as an example of good practice. We have only considered this as well as many other laws from Europe. But I'm particularly interested in what you said about volunteerism. You mentioned volunteer work, and I would point out that in the youth law, volunteerism is mentioned as a value and I will tell you very good examples such as in the village of Tall where young people, an informal group of young people gathered and their old cultural centre which was a ruined building, thanks to their volunteer work they turned into a good cultural centre and, of course, small funds from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I'll tell you that among young people themselves, there is great interest in such volunteer actions. For example, in 2010, the Ministry of Youth and Sports funded 25 such local actions, volunteering for young people, where they really had very useful actions for their environment, and this year there is already a demand for 135 local volunteer actions. Therefore, it is an illustration that among young people, this volunteerism represents truly one value, and it is an opportunity to mention as a sports minister that volunteers in the work of clubs, when organising an international competition, make an exceptional contribution to their voluntary work. I think that we should cultivate this in our society, because it's kind of a gift of solidarity when it's done that way and it helps its environment. I also mention, since you said that in no way does this law contribute to employment and does not help youth employment, I will tell you that 98 local youth offices have had training for young activists who are willing to engage in youth entrepreneurship. What's the result of that training? Here, 250 young people founded their own businesses in the last year. I mean, instead of working for a salary, 250 young people are now employers. I think it's an exceptional example of how optimism and how local youth offices work a little bit at a time, but in the jurisdiction of this ministry can help hire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56875	People's MP, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56876	Mrs Samardzic, she mentioned Mrs Vojic-Markovic, but the brochure, here is the report of the Republic of Serbia – the National Assembly of Germany and an explanation of how the Youth Protection Act was adopted in Germany in 2002. You may not have, but we in the congregation got it and I accept that you didn't have it. Another thing about this, the EU strategy says that by 2050 the number of young people will drop by 5%, and you said in your opening statement that by 2050 in Serbia, the population of young people from 15-30 will fall 2%. So much better, more useful and optimistic in Serbia than in the EU. That is why we are thinking of young people not to join the EU and not to mix with them much. Another small remark, pay attention, you're a representative of the legislator of this law, but there are some in your service, I have to tell you, don't think it's ugly what I'm going to say, there are some grammatical errors, some illiteracy. There are not 11 general objectives, 10 general objectives or 15 are said to be said, and 11 general objectives or 11 strategic objectives in the context of the bill's proposal, 11 strategic objectives are already said. When the linguists see it, I believe they'll resent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56877	The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56878	Of course, I'm not going to enter this kind of grammatical discussion, I'm going to leave to the technical editorial all the elements that concern the law and I apologize in advance if there are technical errors, if that's something that offends the language of the Members, but I'm still staying on that there are 11 general objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56879	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Miroslav Markicevic. It's available for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56880	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the honourable MPs, when we agreed at the Parliament club what position we would take and who would speak of this law, I thought we were not talking about this law. Every year I get about 700 freshmen and then I ask myself as a pedagogue if I can tell them the truth about disoriented society where they have no perspective and on the other hand, if I have the right to keep it quiet. Some of my students have asked me, they say, we have heard that the law on young people goes, that it will be in the Assembly, that it will bring some improvements and that we will have some benefits and that we will get better. My answer was no. Of course, I want to welcome Mrs. Minister's enthusiasm, she's really trying really hard to do her job to give an explanation of a law like this that's just a set of principles that don't commit anyone to anything. I must also refer to the presentation of colleagues and colleagues, especially from G17 plus, because there is some practice, that when the idea is born with them, that only praises have to be talked about. Then the question for colleagues and colleagues, do they even know what the law is? The law regulates something, and the act contains legal norms containing disposition and sanctions. What we have in front of us is a declaration. If you wanted to say a set of wishes that do not follow the possibilities in our country, then you should have written a declaration, because if we set ourselves within the measure of the law, we see that the law teaches us who is young and declares the principles that have already been declared by the Constitution. Why the law when it's already written in the Constitution? Furthermore, to go back to what I said about the nature of such an act, it should serve, not to convince the Constitution in short lines and bring nothing new. Let's say, the word "can," that's again the question I asked myself and my other colleagues and colleagues, what does this law commit to? So local self-government units can, and they don't have to do anything under this law. Is it responsible to put such laws before the congregation? We, of course, have tried to improve and change the amendments somehow, but simply, sometimes something is impossible to change, because what the coat of arms is born, time doesn't correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56881	There is a word, Miroslav Markicevic is not in the O.R., MP Jovan Nesovic, and after that, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The time not available to the parliamentary group is 23 minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56882	You can't hear, there's no microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56883	People's MP, my apologies, we've checked and the signalling in the O.R. shows that everything's fine, however, there's no tone in the transmission. I can only apologize to you on my personal behalf, so you can switch and try again. (Jovan Nesovic, from the post: I will try like this. ) Please try another parliamentary unit. Another apology, but you just can't hear yourself in the transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56884	Is it better now? Yeah. ) Since the president, the respected members of the government, i.e. the ministry, co-workers and fellow MPs, has been respected from the beginning, I said this is a very important law and law that was first passed in the state of Serbia. It covers a population of young people who are now in Serbia around 20%. I also said that some analyses show that the number of people, both in the EU and in the country of Serbia, will decrease in the coming period. It is a big problem for society, which is why it is important to invest in this young population, because this young population is the future of this country. I also said that the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized this and that the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I think, has done a lot in the past few years, as it exists, both in the field of sport and in the field of youth. It seems to me that the great courage was to make one of these laws and today we have it in the congregation. Many have said it's political law, and I want to tell you that the ministry's policy is to take care of young people systemically. We have about a year's worth of choices. I want to tell you that in 2008, a year after the formation of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, a national strategy on youth was adopted. Here, after that, the national strategy lays down the laws on young people. Therefore, the Youth and Sports Ministry is simply dealing with the problem of young people systematically and seriously, and no one can say that this is a pre-election programme of a particular political group. It's not at least correct. What I'm also saying is that the public debate lasted a long time. It lasted from local self-government through young people's offices, across the county, 29 of them in Serbia, at national level. Not only is it important to ask those to whom the law applies, but it is important to build trust between institutions and those who simply have to respect and use their services. I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Youth and Sports has built trust with young people in this state of Serbia over the past few years. I am absolutely sure that certain discussions today have been directed to show that the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not built trust. I am absolutely certain of everything that has worked in both sport and youth that has built trust and I am sure it will be very important when we address this population in the next election, and this is a really significant population. What I was also going to say is that a National Youth Strategy has been adopted. Only 16 ministries participated in writing the National Youth Strategy. You cannot be viewed by the National Youth Strategy as just a question of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Security deals with each other's ministries. Employment deals with each other's ministries. Youth health deals with the third ministry. It's just that 16 ministries deal with this problem. Then ask this ministry to solve all the problems really at least is unserious, and this is exactly what the Ministry knows about the Government Act is about, and I think it works very well. What has also caused a certain controversy today is the offices for young people. I personally think that every municipality should have an office for young people. Not because of the ministry, but because of the young people from that community. I'm sorry, there's one rule, if this law said there had to be an office for young people, today the discussion would go quite the other way. It's a way to ground party personnel. Everyone would say - we have to ground party personnel. I'm sorry, if we ask who the youth co-ordinator is, it's local self-government. It's a question of the political elite of a local self-government. If he wants to deal with young people's problems systemically, he has to choose the best. If he does not deal with the systemic problems of young people, he will choose a party figure similar, he will have good paper co-operation, and he will not have in reality. This is another problem, then, that citizens who evaluate this political elite that led the city, or the municipality, that in the next elections of penalties because they did not take account and did not take advantage of certain opportunities given to them by local self-government and state, i.e. the ministry, other ministries and tomorrow EU access funds, to solve certain problems that are in their city. Also, one thing we want to say. Many say – there is not enough money. That's right. We talked a few days ago about local self-government not having enough money. A few days ago, we said that local self-government should get more money. There, of these couples who get local self-government laws proposed by the United Regions of Serbia may also be part of the funds to be used for local self-government policy towards young people. It is the practical skills and knowledge of local people, i.e. local leaders, or the president of municipalities, or political groups run by that local policy. I think it's very important that there is a National Youth Council. I'm absolutely sure if it's a serious country government and local self-government, that we'll also have local advice for young people and province councils for young people, because, frankly, if we're talking, that everyone in this room, and I'm sure all over the country, we're also standing up for young people, then there's no reason why they don't have any advice, because every local self-government must have its own local youth action plan and say what they need. The needs of young people in Belgrade and the needs of young people in the Kingdom or the needs of young people in Leskovac are different. It is therefore important that there are simply these local action plans to be implemented through some policy of local self-government, and the state will implement national youth policy through the ministries. What is also important is the financing of public interests in the field of youth policies. I'm glad the Youth and Sports Ministry is doing what it does transparently. Every competition that comes out is public, appears on the site, is published in the Official Messenger, and everyone can compete, from youth associations, from youth organisations, from local self-government, etc. It's a public competition and it's a matter of quality. We come up with one thing that's important. I'm absolutely sure the Youth and Sports Ministry can help any local self-government who wants to have a good office for young people to help. The question is, does the place want that? I'm absolutely sure it's not the ministry's problem, it's the local self-government problem. I'm going back to the beginning. If local self-government is really mature and wants to help young people, then I'm absolutely sure of communicating with the ministry. Whatever the option is in these local self-governments, it is the ministry that can help them simply exploit funds from the ministry, from certain funds and local budgets, to simply try to solve youth issues in their local environment. Finally, believing that this law will help create conditions in the coming period for young people to live better in all Serbia, because today young people are living worse safely in the Shop and Leskovac than they do in Belgrade, today when we talk here, we only talk about how many people go from Serbia to abroad, and we do not say how many people from the poor environments come to Belgrade today or some other big centre. Really believing that this ministry will contribute together with the government that young people in all of Serbia live better, I believe that then we all succeeded here, and in local self-government, and the National Assembly, and the ministry, if it should be the goal of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56885	Thank you. The national envoy Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56886	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, wanted a big, first of all, to speak to the President of the Assembly and possibly to the Secretary of the Assembly, who delivered us this material that helped us to work and to see parallel-law matter in other countries when it comes to young people. However, I have the impression that this, which young people would say is a clean "kopi-paist" if you took this from BiH and copied it, because, believe me, it's humiliating that you spell in Serbian the name of international institutions. I have to read it, just to keep in mind that you're not humiliating us that way anymore. Here's what it says, calling for international sources of rights in this area "universal declaration on human rights". You know what you're thinking, I guess, and "convention on the rights of the tillt." I mean, really, we're MPs, if you wanted a translation, you should have translated the name of these international institutions, not to spell this out for us in Serbian, because it really reminds me of a video that can be seen on the ju-tube about a month and a half ago, where we're making fun of a high-ranking official just because he doesn't know how to read some material that's spelled in Serbian and Cyrillic. But let's go back to this law on young people who, if anything, should at least be called a bill on the protection of young people. This law is totally unacceptable for the SRS, because he, above all, has no mark of the law, he is one declaration, he is an extension of what you did in 2008 at the time, and in 2009 when you diluted the strategy with an action plan. Now a law was to be passed that would show great concern for this government for young people. And what were you actually supposed to do? Based on these acts already passed in 2008 and 2009, you should look at every law that the Government sent to Parliament and see where the young ones are, how these laws are maintained on the young population, or this population that you treat, from 15-30 years of age. It would be your job and it would have to be your ministry's job, because every law that comes into this assembly and votes, it's kind of being held on young people. Young people won't live any better or worse than their parents. So, what is the state of society, how we live, how our children live. What values we promote, such values promote both our children and the end of the story. There's no middle class. Until recently, we could see that sad picture of the pensioners opening the Belgrade containers. Now, believe me, the other day in Takovska Street, in the middle of Belgrade, I see a kid with a backpack that goes to school and opens a container. Now, we've come to this point after ten years of your authority, and we're getting closer and closer to Europe, and we're getting closer to some achievements, supposedly some promises of a better life, and we're sinking more and more. When we talk about young people, let's remember what young people are looking for. Now we're going to start some advice on these laws, so there's going to be one-third of the young on that tip, so they're going to tell us what they need, like we don't know what young people need. Well, that's what their dictionary said, I think everyone understands us. We know what they need, because they go out to the streets and they say, "We want to get into the college budget," because we passed all the exams, and you tell them or the Minister of Education tells them -- he can't, because you don't have that many points, and we gave all the exams, according to that new Bologna, say. Or a scholarship from 150,000 to 240,000. Come on, parents, pay up, and here you've led us all to equal opportunities. Yes, God created a man free and with equal opportunities, but then the social disciplines and how we arranged the system sort of divided him. What is it that now characterizes our society, and what affects young people the most? We said unemployment. A million unemployed. illiteracy. What's the percentage of illiterate? It's a "millionaire" question. There are 20% illiterate in this country. We've been dealing with this a long time ago, so now we're back into such a high percentage of illiterate people. There's no elementary literacy, and apparently, now in schools we have the ability to use computers and we want to give our children the best conditions for schooling, and we don't have the elemental ones. Four years ago there was action number one in Serbia, to build I don't know how many toilets in primary and secondary schools, in the 21st century. What are we talking about? Not to mention the salami, the equipment, the conditions in which it's going to be, etc. We need to be aware, first of all, of our reality. Until we put this country on its good feet, because if we keep this up, we're gonna crack like Greece. Until the economy starts working so that we have a positive trend, and until we stop borrowing for nothing, we don't create that middle class again, we don't allow people to work, to live from their work, we'll have a problem with both young people and old people and those who were born yesterday, because even those who are born after a year, the mother goes to work, and that young mother who is 28, 29, 30, when she goes on maternity leave, she has 65% of the income in the first three months and can't be lower than her minimum personal income, and after three months she can be below minimum. Not to talk about those who work on black. How many young people are working on black, who will never retire? We may even leave sometime, they never do. What are they hoping for? What are their models, who are they looking at? When they think a little bit better, they learn, they do, their parents give them up, they give up everything and everything, they finish colleges or some schools, what they set out to be their goal of life, and what happens after that? They don't have a job, and then they see that there's someone who's so close to some circles, who's willing to play on the edge of crime, because the drug roads go through here, there's everything and everything, that's come to a big pair, rides various jeeps, engines, lives a luxury life. Here, among other things, it should be treated at the same time as how young people spend their free time creatively. I'm sorry, man works so he can live and organize his own valley, which is an integral part of life, because we're not animals, but we're humans, human beings who can think and enjoy these things. What's our young man doing? In their jargon, they're deafening. Why are you deaf? Because they have nothing to do, they have nowhere to work. If they did, they'd use their time and so creatively, they wouldn't be in the casinos, they wouldn't be sitting for three, four hours in different cafes, but they'd go home to sleep, to get up tomorrow and go to work. It's all one causal-consequential relationship that's hard to solve with one law, even if you made it ideal, and it's far from ideal. I'm telling you as a lawyer, this doesn't have any property of the law, it has the characteristics of the declaration, but there are some members, so now it looks like the law. No, it's just some of your definitions of how to organize something. Nicely, my colleague Radovanovic said about the socialist youth of the former Yugoslavia, we are just waiting for the socialist alliance of the working people to be formed and that we are reorganising the staff for President Tadic and here are the neo-communists, so that it is clear to everyone that the neo-communists are in power. The Serbian Radical Party can tell you about the problems young people face by tomorrow, and you probably know, if you want to be honest about them. But at this point, it was important for you to improve your party structure, to better organise it, of course, on the cost of the state, or on the cost of budget users, because here is evidence and evidence of what you just said - the head of the Youth Office in Loznica is on your billboards and promoting the URS. What are we talking about? If you're not able to form a party and a party network don't go over our backs and over the backs of taxpayers, you're doing it differently. You say - young people have opportunities and the right to join together, to cultivate some of their values, volunteer work, cultural values, and I don't know what. Here, 15 minutes ago we got a notice - three buses young people self-organized, headed for Gazimestan, what welcomed them down there? Rocking. A guy was transferred to the hospital. Buses stopped, one completely destroyed. What country do we live in? There are 167, 170 municipalities just before you say it. How many municipalities are there in Serbia? No $1 million minister can tell me, because everyone will tell me how many municipalities in Serbia are there or approximately exactly without KIM? I'm asking you, how many municipalities are there under the Constitution under the Law on Territorial Organization? He's 186, I'll tell you. They haven't heard from a minister in the last 10 years. We wish the young people well, but do not defend the young from us, but when any law comes, and we often mention it, and we all call on those children who come behind us, but there is little hearing in the Serbian government. It's not enough to pass just one law that's going to be called the Youth Act. Yesterday, the kids make fun of me. They say, "What are you reading, Mom?" I'm saying, "young people's law." They say, "And tomorrow, the law of the old." I say – the day after tomorrow we will probably law on women in the pertile age, so the law on women in menopause etc. Don't make fun of us. Indeed, the young will feel very hurt by this law. They'll think we'll really get them so wrong, that it's enough to have a law called the Youth Act, and we have the Cancer Act. We gave this law serious importance to protect brandy and the quality of brandy. We don't protect young people here, we don't protect them from anything. We're, like, giving them some opportunities. What they will be tormented to arrange, when it is the system that determines how they will live, which way they will go. As recently as possible, participation in loans for the purchase of apartments, which are highly tangling young people, has increased to 20%. Where do these kids get that money, get to any apartment? Here, for the cars too. Car's not a luxury today, it's a need. How are you coming to work? By car. Okay, I'm taking the bus, but I'm not the minister. How much is a kindergarten? Can anyone put their child, even a young man, in a state kindergarten? He can't, and then he has to pay 250 or 300 euros for a private kindergarten. How much is it when he pays 500 euros for the apartment, and more expenses, and what are the salaries and what is the average salary, how many are working on black, how many are for the minimumer? And so we can talk in circles for hours, but it's been 15 minutes for me, and they told me only 10 minutes I can talk, so the rest of my colleagues can arrive. I'm sorry. Once again, an SRS law like this, not because this is what it's called, but because it doesn't solve anything, has no intention of supporting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56887	I give my word to MP Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56888	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, members of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as already said by my predecessors, the SRS cannot vote for the material you gave us under the name of the Youth Law. Of course, I'll explain to you why we can't, and I'll try to convince you that our criticisms are really not flat, and they're not party-colored, but they also have these deep roots in the Serbian reality and interests of Serbian youth. Someone here before me said that one party, the leading party, seems to me, the party takes care of the young and the number of its young proves it. The SRS, which considers young and old and middle-aged to be one family, with one single body, had 15% in the moment of choice of young people in its ranks and that is clear to you all and do not honor the SRS that we do not care about young people. Brine Vojislav Seselj and so on about young SRS personnel, and the vice president of our party is Mr. Martinovic, young, legal, MP, and the capital of Belgrade is headed by Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. According to this, we do not speak, but in part confirm that we believe in young people and that they mean something to us. Madam Minister, you have come to us to quote and quote sources. Here's the first source I'm going to quote, which was given to me by a respected colleague, Petar Jojic, former federal justice minister, when I asked him to give me the exact definitions of what the law is, what is the legal norm and what it consists of. There, you see, the law is a set of legal norms, and legal norm is a rule that regulates itself by forcing the state and it must have a disposition and must have a criminal component and a norm. It says, I won't read it to you. He's right in front of me. I'd be happy to give you the law textbook, "Introduction into Law", the first year and "Encyclopedia of Rights". So what you've offered us here in the form and content in which it is given is not the law, and we point out that. Furthermore, you can change the law if, you will raise your hand here as most, because you raise your hand and confirm that the day is night and vice versa. We don't mind. Serbian citizens see it. Developed countries don't have laws like this. I am very grateful to the Assembly, our officials who have activated the service. Mrs Pop-Lazic criticised a technical lack. There's been a bit of a technical failure here, but it's essential. What does this document say? He clearly says most countries do not have a law on young people. Of course not. What does the law on young people mean? Then, when they have, a few, a few of them, so they're beautifully indicated in the document and they start with Germany, Germany has a law on the protection of young people and that law is very specific. What's he saying? He's talking about the ban on drinking, the ban on visiting a bar, the ban on smoking young people, all the specifics. Don't twist things. Something like this, in this form, does not exist in a developed world. Of course, whether it needs legal regulation, how in a developed, normal world it is done, to protect young people, we think that, and this pamphlet that you gave us, that's not it. If you look at a document of 29 members, first of all, we have nine introductory members. You're saying that young people used to do this for young people, and look what you say in Article 3. – Subjects of youth policy are the Republic of Serbia, AP, unity of local self-government, as bearers of youth policy. Who's going to wear it? Power. And where are the young ones? Well, you're talking about young people. How'd you figure that out? Then he says -- institutions and associations that carry out youth activities and other entities that participate in the implementation of youth policy. But the bearers are these, and these others are following. Then what are you telling us here? Or you can start by talking about principles. Well, in the strategy, you pointed out a dozen principles, and here you reduced the principles. You say, "All young people are equal." No, they're not. Here, Bosca is not the same with her colleague Lydia, who gave the opening lecture. There's a big difference, but they're even. If you wanted to write it right, equal in front of the law, you might have been able to do it, but in the Strategy it writes well – equal. No, you're equal. You're making fun of us, by accident or on purpose. That's what we're telling the citizens of Serbia. Now look away. You have here, when we look at this short bill, associations that carry out youth activities. I'm not saying this is really cynical when you say what youth activity is. So I can do youth activity. I can't. If I'm doing any activity, it can't be youthful. Adjective youth refers to the youth directory. What you've done here in papaziania translates into cataract English, that's your problem. When Paja Momchilov does something for the young, and I do it every day, I give birth to our pregnant women, I don't do youth work, but I do if I do a good job in favour of youth health. That's the kind of trouble you put into this law. All right, let's skip that. Now someone will say, "Well, why is this written?" There are three reasons, for me, because when you see two other chapters follow, which is to introduce new bureaucratic elements, you introduce advice. Too bad there's not a council president here, Mr. Canak, to tell us something about the council's activities. These days he's in the papers, some advice for I don't know what, they haven't done anything for three years, they take money on a regular basis, they don't refuse. I have experience with other advice, the Health Council. They gave us a report, they didn't get any material resources or rooms where they could work, and no one ever faired them for anything. That's advice and that's what we need. No, they need names, people, they need agencies, they need offices, they need machine multiplication. Mrs. Lydia said 51 of you in that ministry is quite enough to do these jobs safely and in the interests of young people. If 51 of you are unable, resign. The second reason, the main reason you're famous for is that seven members of 29 deal with money flows. That is the essence of this law. As the money is divided, so is the arrangement. I have no proof to claim to you that it's in your offices, sitting on your laundry and not interested in me, but sitting personnel set up by the executive authority and that's the essence of this law and that auxiliary, disabled one. Since you haven't done what you were required to do, if you wanted the European conventions and the UN conventions to be implemented, then act like you're worried about this kind of freakish way. What did you owe me? What we've already told you. Here are some concrete documents - a millennium declaration, a resolution on the promotion of youth employment in the UN in 2002. Three dots are exactly said. What's he saying? The Youth Employment Network. If you want the Lisbon Declaration, it says – give young people education, employment and health. It's an interest. This is what the state of Serbia should allow for young people and there is no such thing. I don't have time to read all the UNICEF stories and notes. Why is this freakish? Because by opening up and funding like this, all the money will go where they don't need it. Then it'll be something called corruption and we shouldn't allow it. If I didn't take a lot of time from my colleagues, you'd have all this information. How much do we invest in school? We're investing 4.5% of gross national income for education. What did America do in a crisis? She pumped 130 billion directly into school and into public school. What's Singapore doing? Best education system. Serbia has 40% of young people who are out of work. He's working 20 percent of young people on black without saying other numbers. Look at your budget report. An item called the Youth Fund, chapter 24, item 4. – education unclassified in the second place, it is a Fund for young talent and then rewards and bonuses in the budget, since it was an insult to a colleague where she read it. Here, I'm reading your budget. Then it says constant costs -- nothing, so the contract services -- 26 million, and then there's social security benefits from the budget -- 539 million. The title of all this is young talent. What kind of social protection for young talent? What's that? Explain. Or, if we go to your site, since you said you were doing it nicely, in your survey it's the first page, you ask young people what education needs. Here's what -- reconnaissance. Go, please, to the site and see what of education interests young people and what they lack – reconnaissance. That's the problem of Serbian youth, according to our ministry. I'd have a lot to say, SRS MPs can't vote for this, it's against the interests of young people, and we can never raise our hand for something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56889	Minister Samardzic-Markovic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56890	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The question of whether some developed countries, which the honourable Member of Momcilov had asked, specifically, had found that developed countries did not have a law on young people, so I would just see which criteria were used precisely in such an assessment and what undeveloped countries were or were developed. I'll tell you that the youth law has, for example, Holland, Austria, Finland, Germany, Italy. I really can't say with certainty whether these are undeveloped countries, by your criteria, or developed. Also, what I'd like to say here is that only in the process of making young people's laws were involved in 2.5 thousand young people. I want to tell you that they listen to this, like many other young people, and they also heard your qualifications that it's papasiania, nebuloses, and nadaladic documents. As your colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic said, many things come from the family. More specifically, how we live is how our young people live. I will tell you what dictionary is used in this House on various documents and it is no surprise that such words are heard in public speech in other places. But I actually want to answer two questions. You said that new administrative bodies are being established and advice for young people called an administrative body that burdens our budget and our work. It's stipulated in the law that the council is doing volunteer work. So they won't burden anyone. What I wanted to add and to clarify, it's about a fund for young talent. Social protection compensation, 539 million, is intended for prizes and scholarships, and in the entire Serbian budget system, awards and scholarships have been classified in section 472 and is precisely part of the fund used in other places to pay off scholarships. It's just a technical question and it's not a name we use as a social name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56891	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr. Momchilov, there's no reason for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56892	I'm reading it directly to you. You say our service is inextricable. It's very professionally done. That's what you do if you kill, I agree. I don't refer you to them, I read to you, and I read directly to you, a small number of countries among which Germany precedes have a law on protection. Don't make a permutation. Not about young people, but about protecting young people, and then concrete measures – forbidden drinking, banned drugs, banned films in the media. It is downloaded from the program if any emissions are incorrect and concrete content. That's what I said. So let's understand each other right away. Under number three, write there specifically what's up with those awards, it's a very dangerous thing. You've recently won the May Prize besides thousands of athletes who deserve the Olympic champions, you've won the May Prize for Sports. I didn't even know you were a top athlete. Well done. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56893	There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56894	Thank you for your congratulations. The May Prize isn't just about top-notch athletes. I ask you to read in their rulebook who gets all the awards and whether anyone but top athletes gets those awards. What I wanted, I never claimed that the services of the congregation were unprofessional. On the contrary, I think very qualified people I've met work here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56895	National MP Miljan Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56896	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am very happy that this law has finally come to the agenda, but before that, I will still have to look back for a moment and maybe start with what I wanted to finish with. I can't stay silent, and whatever I'm pretending to be, I haven't heard the previous two speeches, because despite my efforts to present this law as it isn't, simply how many times you've gotten into the contradiction that it's simply amazing. I remember what you were talking about yesterday, and I remember what you said last week and before last week. I can't figure out if you're against the EU country or whether you're against them. Yesterday and last week, you're talking about all the worst of these countries, and today you're saying something much better than we're proposing here right now. Try to compare the non-comparable. I've got this all figured out very well. It's just that I couldn't help but point out that from day to day you're in contradiction. Why am I happy today? Because this whole story started a few years ago when I was still president of my party's youth network, when I wanted to talk to my associates about what our country should change and introduce some new conditions to make life better for young people in this country. We came up with some ideas and, of course, called on the MP then, the then president of the democratic youth, Mr Vukkovic, and we also invited our colleagues, the presidents of the youth from other parties represented today in this assembly. Only the representatives of the LDP and SRS youth did not come to the meeting. As much as you care about young people. You take care of your officials, not young people. We had a first, then a second, and a third, so who knows which, I think, fifth, sixth, meeting and agreed that everyone together asked their seniors in their parties to set up a youth ministry, a national strategy for young people, offices for young people as a body that would help young people in small towns to live better and, what can I say, today is the youth law, since we already have the Youth Ministry, since in 2008, we adopted the National Strategy for Youth, and in 2009, we adopted an Action Plan to implement the National Youth Strategy, which defines the Youth Act. It seems to me that last year we said that by the end of the year we would have passed the Youth Act. I think it stands out about half of August, that year of young people, if I remember correctly. So we did it, too. I can understand the opposition's disdain because we even keep our pre-election promises, maybe before the deadline, but they're facts. On the other hand, if we talk directly about the law, I am even happier today because for the first time in the history of our country in this high house, we are discussing the law on young people. In our country, we have about a million and a half young to 30 years, which makes up about 20% of our country's population. We have different groups of young people, some active and some inactive. Among those active we have an active culture-interesting, some interested in sports, some others interested in something else. They're people with different needs and different ideas, and someone's a little better at talking to bureaucracy and administration, and someone's a little bit worse, so it's all going a little slower. When in 2001, exactly 10 years ago, I gave a condition for the second year, when I listened to the first year and gave my second year and returned to my booklet, with my high school friends, I formed the student council of the Bookie. We were just about to do something like this, which is what the youth offices have been doing for years now. We wanted to do an action in the city center, however, when we went to report the meeting, then it was – whoever reported it, who was responsible, and it turned out that we had to register the Association of Citizens, that we had to give our ID cards and that we had to write a statute, that we had to pay taxes. We didn't have that action until the second half of August, and I have to admit, here from this place, we had, to put it that way, the political support of the leadership at the time just to help us register and nothing else, so we could do it. Another interesting thing. We cut grass in Timok, which passes through the Book, one of the two Timoks, we cut grass because it was abandoned at the time. After that, it's a good example, then there was never any grass in the city's centre ever again, then the company that normally pays for water-flow maintenance was doing it. Never again for 10 years. It's very well done there. This is an example of good practice. Why did I say all this? Because this law finally states that we can have some informal association. Because we have a problem when young people call and when they want to do something, we first prevent them from various bureaucratic obstacles. Different youth groups in many towns across Serbia have different living conditions. There are richer and bigger places, there are those richer smaller places, medium places and there are those poorer or poorer little places. Of course that affects the quality of life of young people in their midst. When you travel to Serbia and when you talk to young people and on the basis of what is what they plan to do this year, during this summer in their place, what is it that you did last year, you see exactly these regional disproportions and these regional differences. I just like this law that finally gives one frame that's the same for everyone, and yet it allows it to be in accordance with abilities, with ideas, with one or another group of people, to do what it wants to do. This law is actually basic law. Someone here today tried to joke a little bit, so he says, "That's roof law." You're off the roof and I don't know what you're not. This is basic law. This law also introduces some new bodies and principles. Now I don't want to talk about it, because a lot of my colleagues talked about it, so let's just save time. But what matters to me is there's a difference between a youth association and a youth association. The difference is that in youth associations, two-thirds of those associations are, in fact, young people up to 30 years old. Youth associations are all those other associations that touch young people’s issues or work for the benefit of young people in their work programme. Then it was possible to form alliances of these youth organizations of these associations, in fact. What I find interesting is this roof alliance, because even a few years ago it was one of those topics of our meetings and the leadership of the youth organisations of parliamentary parties. The conditions for forming a roof alliance are serious, on the other hand they are not inaccessible. It means that that alliance that meets the conditions that there are 2,000 members up to 30, if I remember correctly, that it has 60 organizations, has two-thirds of our country's administrative districts. It is a representative alliance, and of course it is actually a real partner to both the government and any state body when it comes to young people. I really think that when these laws are fulfilled, these alliances, given the possibility of not being one, these alliances, I hope that there will be more, they can really speak for young people living in Serbia, that what they say is really taken seriously. Keeping records, of course, is fine with me. I don't know why someone's answering that maybe there's a record going on in two places. This is keeping records because of some other needs that are exclusively in favour of young people living in Serbia. As for the advice for young people, one third of young people are members of the youth council, that's okay. There's not one half of us anywhere in Europe, that's what we heard on the board yesterday. On the other hand, it's a volunteer body. It's a volunteer body, it doesn't pay for anything, it can only be useful. There's no harm in the state, nor can anyone have any harm from some young and older people sitting around talking, giving their recommendations, writing their reports. I don't know why it bothers someone here in the speeches. The previous speaker mentioned UNICEF earlier and said the bill is in contradiction with UNICEF. Now I'm going to have to read what UNICEF answered when he read this bill, just to get it over with. They say -- as Serbia's first youth law, it clearly defines the state's efforts to regulate a systemic response to young people and support young people. Now, some of the following -- the youth law follows key European documents in this area. Making the law on young people tends to be many European countries. I have to point out in this place that we are the seventh country in Europe to pass this law, if I recall correctly. I don't know why it bothers anyone that we have a united law that deals with young people, not that they regulate some of the laws in part where the circumstances that regulate simply penetrate the area of young people, so here a little bit, here a little bit, here a little bit and everywhere a little bit, but the essence is somehow not arranged. That's what's really been a problem here for a long time. Then what do the excerpts say? This law gives the possibility to further edit the introduced elements of youth policy at local level, as an office for young people, advice for young people, supports principles as management of adults and young people. I believe that's where the advice comes first. Then, it recognises the importance of the civil sector and the association, creating a youth policy implementation. It recognises informal youth groups, which encourages the activation and inclusion of more young people into social flows. So, on two sides, UNICEF only wrote positively about this bill. I don't know how you can say something that isn't. I just need to give one answer to the youth office's all-day rollouts myself. Youth offices are local bodies where people who live in some small environments gather. The Coordinators of the Youth Office are neither appointed by the Government, nor by the Ministry, nor by any party. If he wants to pay for them, he pays for local self-government, and if he doesn't want to, they do volunteer work. The local self-government, of course, of the one they're paying for, they're choosing. There are local self-governments where, for example, my party is not in power right now and it wasn't when this local co-ordinator was elected as a local co-ordinator, so local self-government might have put someone from its own party, but I also know where local self-government is and where we are and where we didn't put boys and girls in power who are absolutely no party. On the other hand, we do not understand you. What does that mean if a young man is in a party, what is wrong with that? What's wrong with that? We're talking about young people being apathetic, talking about young people not fighting enough for their better lives. We invite them to do so, and then those young people who get involved, and in some, any foreigners show their abilities, and they get a chance, and they justify the chance, and then they get some more serious tasks, and then they show themselves as capable, and still young people, then we should punish them, so we should say, "You know what, you are capable, but you are in a stranger." Please, this is a democratic state and a being. I think there are currently about 100,000 young people in Serbia who are members of all parties. I sincerely hope that there will be a much greater number of people in the parties because it gives seriousness to young people, because young people can learn a lot from parties. Believe me, I absolutely don't have a problem with that if a young man from some party is a youth coordinator, just as I don't have a problem with that if a young man is a co-ordinator of the office for young people and is not a member of any party. It's important to me that they're capable. It's important to me, as someone who's already visited the whole country three and a half times, entered every municipality, every bigger place and less place, it's really important to me to have young people on the ground with whom I can talk first. When I say, "What is it that I can help you, that they may know how to answer, not fear it?" It is important to me that people recognize problems, invite me or any MP, the president of the municipality, the minister and anyone, and ask to change what is bad in their place. I think the point of today's debate is to give young people a chance to deal with their lives. Don't talk to me twice as old as you think about young people. No thanks, you've been thinking about us for years. My colleague today in the afternoon part, when he was 30 years old, as much as I do today, had two wars behind him, while you thought of the young. Today, when I'm 30 years old, we adopt a law on young people, we have offices for young people, today the problem is whether or not some youth office coordinator might be in this, that, or not in any party. I'm happy it changed the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56897	Replica, People's Ambassador to the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56898	Dear young colleague Arangelovic, you asked me what I was saying yesterday. Nothing. I didn't say anything yesterday. You said and maybe you wanted to ask me what attitudes I've taken before, which may be contrary to what I said today. I've always tried to defend civilization's attitudes. I never thought that civilization would end up on the European subcontinent and continent. That we understand each other right away. So when I spoke today, I gave a clear source where I picked up the problems of young people and how the World Health Organization sees them. I don't want to talk to you again. Your question is – are we for the EU or are we not? We didn't. We are against NATO, we are against the EU. Why? For rational reasons. If the big problem is youth unemployment, and I told you that according to the report of the assistant minister of employment, 45% of young people do not have a job today, and 20% is in the gray zone, if you look at OECD countries, in Spain 25% of young people and everywhere. And where isn't it? Here, work agency, young colleague, look at Asia, look at China, look at India, there's no problem. He doesn't understand this government, nor do you, that Europe has terrible problems. Today, development has moved to Asia, Africa. Africa reduces unemployment. Take this from 2010, read something, then you will see that Serbian radicals rationally want good for their people, whether they told you a new city and your state operative should go there to build, not wait for funds, there is nothing and there will be none. (President: Time. ) It is therefore clear, therefore, that in the interests of the people, our children, we are against these conditions of EU accession.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56899	Replica, Rangelović Miljan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56900	Dear old colleague, we are for EU entry and I am convinced that we will enter, and you are going through Spain to go to Africa, and I remind you that today we are talking about the law on youth in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. That's one thing. On the other hand, I really don't think it really occurred to me that you can talk like Paja Momchilov today, and last week, before last week, or it doesn't matter when you're a representative of the SRS. I'm sorry, if I didn't understand correctly that you weren't representing your party today, but you, okay. (President: colleague, speak to the Assembly and to me, please, not to Mr. Momchilov. I just said that your colleagues, or you, are all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56901	Here you go, but let's finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56902	I'll be brief. Tell me when I said it the opposite of entering the EU. There's one more thing, mate. What did you say? I'm watching the site. You're called a student. (President: Addressing Parliament and the chairman, not colleagues. ) I looked at the site, a colleague is a student, 30 years old, says in 2002 he had a second year of study. What's with your schoolmates? And you're giving me a lesson here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56903	You can't talk like that. The word has Rangelović Miljan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56904	I'll answer that. That's why, believe me, I gave the condition in June. When I entered the congregation, I really don't want to graduate because of people who are very malice. I've got a degree waiting for me who's been saved. I don't want to graduate before I get out of here, just because of the malice people. It's really not funny. I can show you how many exams I had when I came in here at the age of 25, how old I am today, I can show you the index, you can check in college if that's the topic. But because of that, because of the malice people, okay, I accept and that, it is my fault, so I chose to be honest with myself in front of everyone and clean. I figured it out before you said that the German law is better, you mention America, you mention everything, so I got out of it to praise some EU countries. I haven't said for a moment that you're in favour of joining the EU, but you're once again twisting what someone in the O.R. is saying and it's your style and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56905	My colleague Duvnjak is not here by giving my word to the MP Gordani Paunovic-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of today's presentation on this bill, I would like to say that most MPs of the ruling coalition, as well as a representative of the government, Madam Minister, have tried to replace the the thesis and to imagine that the opposition only wants good for young people, especially by adopting this act, or as they already call it, the bill, and that MPs of the opposition, in particular the SRS do not wish well for young people and do not wish well for the Serbian people. For this reason, I would also like to point out, especially because of young people, that the SRS has a great relationship with young people and that it is seen and not only by how many young people there are in our party, but also by our efforts to help young people in all possible fields and in every way possible. As you discussed with young people on the issue of this bill, so did the SRS MPs discuss both the national strategy for young people and the action plan for young people and finally, this first draft, and then the bill. what people first noticed, they said that first of all, this is not a law because among young people we have a lot of lawyers who are legally educated that this is not a document that could be called a law, that this is not a document that will protect and solve the problems of young people in Serbia and that this document will not bring any improvement to the citizens of Serbia or to the young. These are the opinions that we have received, which certainly do not agree with your opinions, but I would like to ask, you say that you have surveyed 1,500, 2,500 thousand people, which was a representative group that you chose and by what principle, by which pattern you took these very people, and not some other people, and whether you have surveyed all people from all over Serbia. It is something you should have done, not only to take politically similar people who are located in offices gathering in 123 offices in the Republic of Serbia and that it is not a representative sample of young people in Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party is as you have heard from predecessors who spoke not only against this bill, because it is not considered to be a law at all, but we believe that this could sooner be a law on youth organisations, on the youth sector, on various agencies, offices that are proposed and, in particular, on how to finance the youth sector. This large part of the law, and the law is very narrow, very superficial and in some ways insulting young people in Serbia, has only 29 members, you speak in more than 2/3 of this law on how to finance the youth sector. So, where are the youth problems? I think that the problems of young people in Serbia are much bigger, much more significant and that this way these problems will not be solved. When you discussed this law, you tried to dissuade citizens of Serbia and young people in some way, by bringing in a number of regulations, acts, documents, it's the National Strategy, the Action Plan, and now this bill and by trying to take off your responsibility and, on the other hand, to make confusion among young people that you are doing something and that in some ways you want to help them. That is why this bill, as I said, which already has offices, means that the existence of the office, which already exists at the local level, and is foreseen by the National Strategy, is so in all of Serbia in 123 cities and municipalities, there are these offices that I don't know what they did to this young world. You said some offices hired a number of people, but in Serbia there are still a large number of unemployed. In Serbia, there will still be more and more people who will not be able to buy apartments because it is now the National Bank's policy, increased participation in the purchase of apartments. There are a growing number of people who are going to start families and who are still thinking about going abroad. So, you're not gonna stop a brain drain abroad with this problem. Also, education that is very important is a major problem in this country of Serbia. We heard, and I won't repeat myself, that the prices of people who aren't on the budget are huge and that it can't help young people, young people from poor families don't have the opportunity to compete, so this principle of equality that you have proposed in this bill is not respected. So, even though they have the same success at school, they don't have the ability to enroll in the same college as those kids who have parents who can pay for that schooling. Also, I thought that Dr. Paja Momchilov, as he is in charge of health care and the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, would say about health problems that have been accumulated over the past 10 years because of various psychological, physical, moral and various tortures that young people suffer from, primarily the media and you and your ministry have not tried to influence prostitution, the use of pornographic material bans. Also, you should influence the ban on selling alcoholic beverages, which is done, but partly on some local level, and it's not regulated legally. In one city there is this possibility, and in another, there is no drink under the counter, a drink is sold wrapped in some different bottles, different bags. I don't think these are all the problems you should have solved with this bill. What's tragic and what's devastating is that no city in Serbia is, that all the cities in Serbia have drug abuse. Of the drug industry today, there are more than 150,000 people in Serbia. This is tragic because drug abuse is not only a kind of disease, it also leads to crime, delinquent behavior, environmental destruction. I think the SRS has well-intentionedly tried to show you the lack and lack of this document that the government has given you, whose representative you are. I think this bill on youth should be passed. We are about to help young people in every way possible, but not this way and not through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56907	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. You've got 12 minutes left. Excuse me, Minister first. Here you are, Mrs Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56908	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since a question was asked by MP Pavlovic-Milosavljevic, I am somehow obliged to answer that question. In which I must say, it is neither in any way an implication nor a statement that the opposition does not wish well for the young. On the contrary, even after the exposé, I said that it is imploding to me that there is clearly good intentions and concern for young people throughout Parliament. I am even some examples where, for example, opposition representatives in this parliament are in power in local parliaments and they have opened local offices for young people. I would stand out next to Backa Palanca, where your party is concerned, and Zemun from which you come where the local youth office is open and where the SRS has a really great coordinator and I am taking the opportunity to publicly praise him. What is an opportunity for me to answer you today, and I didn't know what way you thought bringing acts was to disabling Serbian citizens, but it doesn't matter now how clear something is to me or not, you know that best. I have an obligation to answer your question – how did these young people participate in the public debate? First of all, it was done in 25 districts and where an office for young people was created on the ground, associations of citizens had the obligation and the possibility and the right to call as many young people as possible. To not only limit ourselves to those who are territorially present or not, we had all the time while making the first work text, and then draft the law on the website of all these versions and everyone had the opportunity to participate to make their remarks. I'll tell you that the task force formed by the ministry, as well as a broad advisory group that dealt with all these remarks, so the Web site observations corresponded to each individual who participated, of course, to the institutions that participated through the web site on these public debates. So we didn't have any kind of, say, negative or any discriminatory criterion, but whoever wanted to participate was more than welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56909	Thank you. I don't think there's any reason for my colleague, Paunovic, for the replica. Indeed, the minister has only given an explanation and there is really no reason. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56910	Ladies and gentlemen, this quasi law is another one of democracy flows, and today, on Vidovdan, it is good to remember that exactly ten years ago today, the then DOS regime handed over to the criminal UN tribunal Slobodan Milosevic, who was killed six years later in the same tribunal. This certainly has something to do with it, if you thought it wasn't, because it's a liquid called the so-called liquid. democracies, like all of your laws, which you have from the EU, which you translate from somewhere, which you do and here you yourself have now said that little Perica imagines making a law. Open up the site, and whoever wants to, write on the site, and you put it into the law. The laws today, Mrs Samardzic – Markovic, we are doing here on principle, as our people would say, a rotten grandmother flax to pass her day. This is nothing. Nothing is what you call so bravely the law. You and your colleagues who will vote for this bill. You've been answering MPs all day and you haven't answered any specific questions because you don't have an answer to the question, because this isn't the law, Madam Minister. This could be a declaration, this could be some kind of strategy, these could be a list of principles. Anything can be, it just can't be the law. In this House, in these 11 years, and especially since this last government, which I suppose is flocking to Europe, has lost all the criteria, and together with it is the current assembly majority. In this period, in this House, so many law enforcement laws have been passed, unconstitutional, inapplicable, laws that were a framework for abuse, for corruption. Laws that allowed political corruption, and this is almost to pass a law amending the Law on the election of MPs. The laws we've been paying attention to are inapplicable, so after three months, they've been changing and supplementing here. At least it looked like the law. This, Madam Minister, does not look like a formal law. A law that has no real norm, and you have called this a law, you are a member here of this, a member of that, no member is specific, no member is binding, not applying this is subject to any sanctions. Then where's the law? You really needed someone to teach you, you're not from this profession and I can understand you, but I guess one of your associates did. It's very brave to talk about the law all day, and here you just wrote us, I don't know, just a few principles. So, what's the point? This is a form. The bottom line is that neither you have any intention of helping young people, as your government has no intention of helping young or old, or born, or born tomorrow. You are simply not a government that wants good for the citizens of Serbia. You're one vermin power in every way. You show it best with this law. You've been talking for more than a year in all the media about the youth strategy, about the youth law that you're going to offer, which you're going to bring here. You assure us that this is the will of young people in Serbia. Oh, right. Yeah, right. The will of young people in Serbia is your youth associations, youth associations, youth offices, youth agencies. Here's the essence of your law. In these associations, offices, agencies, you will hire a number of young people, your party activists, so that you will now have someone to cry for your next campaign and share pre-election material, etc. Generally, most young people don't have any of this. Says one colleague, why does it bother us that young people are party members? Of course not. If someone's proud of young people in their party, it's the SRS. Of course we don't mind, but we're not as hypocritical as you are. You claim that these youth offices have nothing to do with the parties in power in that municipality. Madam Minister, I see that well, whatever office is mentioned you know what's going on there. Do you know who's in Loznica, the trustee of that office? A woman from G17 plus who's, uh, no big deal, but you say that's not true. It's that lady on all the billboards and all the videos, as you're now popularly called, in advertising decentralisation. She's being paid by the county. Is that right? That's right. The president of the municipality? Vidoje. Is that what everyone's interested in? Wait, wait, I don't know what you're wondering. Is that the interest of all the young people in Loznica? No, it's the interest of that young woman who joined you and who gets money from you. Did you help another young man in Loznica? Did you help the president of the OO SRS who's a graduate politician, a young man? You didn't help him get a job. You don't care, he's a radical. Take care of your own. Why didn't Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, before the break, not let you finish the debate with a LDP colleague, so she broke up and said it was time to take a break? Why? Because Mrs. Bulgarcic of the LDP told you openly and asked you, you were talking about an office for young people in Belgrade, so you said there was a trustee in that office who is not from the ruling majority. First, you have to make sure that the ruling majority is somewhere else on local level, not everywhere like the republican level. Nicely Mrs. Marija Bulgarcic told you that the condition to support you, to support the LDP authorities in Belgrade, was to establish an office for young people and to lead the office as someone from the LDP. You didn't answer that question. Is that true? You watched strangely when Maria Bulgarci said that. Now I ask you and ask you later to answer that question and tell which young people in Belgrade is of interest. Is that the interest of all young people in Belgrade? That's what we've been telling you all day. It's hypocritical what you're doing. We don't mind if some government is at a local level, of course it works, first of all, in the interest of all citizens, but it's going to put people who are party officials on some of the functions, and that's perfectly normal, but that's only for the top, not for the office for young people who are employed by a few people who are playing there, playing games on a computer, writing some projects, getting some dinar, five, six who are in that office. Convince us, Madam Minister, that this has an interest in a small number of young people, not just those in that office, from which party they are. That's not the answer. What you are doing is not solving the difficult issues that young people in Serbia face. What about free schooling? What about inaccessible schooling? What about the nastad Bologna declaration that makes people not able to school? Do you know how many hundreds of young people are left who can't enroll because of some pointless points from the Bologna Declaration? What about the young people in the village? What about 30,000 hungry children, according to your official records? What about 100,000 young people working through cooperatives? Who runs these cooperatives? How do you split the money between the employer and whoever's at the head of the cooperative? These young people without a job are exploited, working for three times as much money as they'd do if they were really employed in these companies. Is that supposed to be your ministry's concern? We think it should be your ministry's concern. What about the drug problem? One hundred and fifty thousand registered drug addicts, drugs on the streets as much as you want every day, they say, getting cheaper. Unregistered young drug addicts 455,000, the youngest 12 years old, half a million drug addicts in Serbia. Doesn't that concern you? And you're playing how little Perica imagines the country. This is really scandalous, that you've presented to us here today what you're trying to represent as an epochal discovery. Here you are, as we discuss here today, we have arrived in a parliamentary group. The family of Tomičić from Novi Sad, a father, says, a single parent, three children, takes care of herself and children, the eldest daughter of a regular student, a son attends high school, the youngest because of illness had to leave school. He says -- I hope society won't let smart, honest, and raised children become thieves, criminals, or anything else that's wrong. The man got fired, there's no one to feed his children. I can't have kids tomorrow when they finish school to get a job. Where is the state of Serbia, Madam Minister? Is this gonna help the office? Is this gonna help the agency? Will it help the advice for young people, where a dozen young people gather, praise those young people, you say from the NS, I don't know what you recommend to Mrs. Gordani Paunovic as something good, you know, she's a Serbian radical. Yes, praise those ten people you hired, who have nothing to do with Zemun, who are not from Zemun at all, including the Tanja Vidojevic who worked on Pinka, are all getting paid there. Is that in the interest of young people in Zemun? Is that in the interest of the citizens of Zemun? Madam Minister, you have no good intentions, no good law, just an attempt at your marketing pre-election trick. Scandalous.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56911	The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic. He's not here. The word is Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56912	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected presidency, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing a very important law today, and the aim of passing this law should be to improve the social position of young people and ensure conditions for their needs and interests. The SNS believes that young people should pay special attention and provide them with conditions to build themselves a decent future, but we cannot agree with the provisions of this law. On the contrary, we believe that the proposed legal solution is largely confusing, the definitions used are complicated and unclear. There are also a lot of provisions in the bill that are unnecessary, and some of them are declarative cartoons. Some members have also highlighted the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, which is completely unnecessary, as the issue of equality and prohibition of discrimination is governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Article 10. The bill speaks of the adoption of a national strategy for young people, and we have tabled an amendment to this article, and we have proposed the amendment, given that it is a very important document, that this document regulates the majority of important issues for young people who are not regulated by law, as well as the fact that the strategy is adopted over a period of six years, we believe that the strategy should bring the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Article 13. The bill is a good example of the ambiguity that dominates this proposal. This member speaks about youth associations and youth associations, primarily because they are governed by the Constitution and the Law on Associations by the organisation of informal associations and their activities. In addition, it is difficult for this article to accept the definition of action as it is said in the law – objectives or areas of achieving youth-oriented objectives according to this law. As my colleagues have already stated, this proposal is more declarations than the law and it does not deal with essential youth problems such as unemployment, education, the protection of young people from vices, alcohol, drugs and the like. There are about 1.5 million young people in Serbia, which is only 20% compared to the total population. Among young people aged 15 to 30 there are 0.6% illiterate and without a complete primary school of 4.70%. Some 200,000 young people were reported on the National Employment Service's record, making up 27% of the total number of registered persons. Of the total number reported, 64,000 has completed the third degree of professional training, and even 43,500 with the first degree or without any formal qualification. The youth unemployment rate in Serbia for 15 to 24 years is 40.47% and for 24 to 30 years is 20.4%. This isn't pathetic, this is a devastating reality. The data only tells us that the position of young people in Serbia is far below the average. The direct consequence of the government's poor attitude towards young people is the fact that 67% of young highly educated people today plan to leave Serbia unless something changes in it as soon as possible. I come from Sremska Mitrovica, which was once the center of Srem, and today, after unsuccessful privatisations, a large number of people are out of work. These are people who are parents, who couldn't give their children education, and we can't talk about equal opportunities and opportunities for all. In Sremska Mitrovica, according to the National Employment Service, there are 3,000 young people. In my midst, there's a story among young people that even a party book, a membership book is not a guarantee of getting a job, so young people go into hopelessness and depression, and they seek salvation in vices like alcohol, drugs and the like. As local self-government invests only in the travel network, we will be in a position for Sremska Mitrovica to soon become a village with an old life and a good way for young people to go into the world, into bigger cities, in search of a man-friendly life. The problem of unemployment makes it harder for young people to decide to start a family and more often stay single, single even after 30 years, and the fact is that our country is a society that grows older. I believe that taking care of young people, their needs and interests, should not and cannot be framed by one law alone. I think, too, that me and my peers deserve more precise, more concrete definitions that will allow us a better future in our midst. This must not be a probation law as some say, this is a serious matter to be seriously approached. My colleagues and I have submitted to this bill, 19 amendments, and I hope you will accept them, because this bill is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56913	Right for the replica. Yes, you were mentioned, and you have the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56914	Thank you, Madam President, so let me just use my right to reply and explain some things. Mrs. Radeta mentioned me. One of the conditions to form power in Belgrade was that a youth office was formed that did not even exist in Belgrade three years ago. And at no time was it a condition to be someone from the LDP, but only to form this office that didn't even exist at that time. I don't know what the Minister's been laughing at all day, I don't know what I'm saying so funny, but it was just one of the conditions, and I just wanted to explain it to all those present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56915	We understand that your condition was to form an office, so I just don't know what the meaning of the replica is. We understand. Mrs. Verice, there's no basis for replication, no. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56916	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I will repeat, this bill by the Members of the SNS cannot be accepted, since it is not about the law, but rather about the declaration. It is to remind you that even a member of your party is a distinguished gentleman who, of course, also said in a special context that it is not practically the law, but more about the declaration. This law does not contain any legal norm and can really not be swept under the terms – the law. For the most part, however, I will repeat, this law does not address key youth problems in Serbia such as education, employment problems, the problem of young experts and other young people abroad, as well as the problems of disease-related addictions of which several hundred thousand people, young people in Serbia, suffer. Of course, no one expects these problems to be solved by this ministry and I understand that, but I do not understand that the Ministry of Youth and Sports has found it appropriate to include these key problems in a law that speaks of the protection of young people. Therefore, I repeat, no one expects the Ministry of Youth and Sports to solve employment problems, security problems, problems of youth going abroad or disease-related addiction or education problems, for this is supervised by other ministries, but it is quite logical that in the youth law they are those social areas, those topics that burden young people in Serbia. That's all I have to explain. I will mention once again about equal chances, I must mention once again young refugees and young displaced people from KIM and refugees from Croatia, BiH and displaced young people from KIM. They are not equal with other young people living in Serbia. In a significantly smaller number, they graduate from schools and colleges and have low self-esteem, are less communicative, they are withdrawn and not socialised enough. Many of them live in poverty, and one of them lives in camps. Youths in KIM and Serbs and non-Albanians in Serb enclaves also cannot stand an equal chance with other young people in Serbia and, of course, that is understood. Their thoughts are about what will happen to KIM tomorrow, what will happen to their fate, where they and their parents will if new conflicts happen on KIM. I have to say this again, because unfortunately, in this law, these young people are not being treated. A little bit about the free time of young people, which was very little to say about. Half of high school students, 47% of them according to studies by the Institute of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, spend their time with their peers, then on TV, mobile phone or computer. Every fifth grader deals with sports, a small number reads books, and about 50% of them never went to theatre or museums. A little bit about sports and recreation, given that it is also your jurisdiction and also the general interest in Serbia, with the transition from childhood to adolescence, the concept of sport in these young people is changing very much. Sports becomes, not just a game, fun, but a commitment, and that's why many young people usually stop playing sports when they move to colleges. Of course, this is also conditioned by some other things such as the fact that in colleges young people do not have the opportunity to practice sports, because in 1998, the teaching of physical education in colleges was practically abolished, and now you are trying and we are trying to get that teaching back, since it is one of the elements of the socialization of young people and solving all the other problems they have in their free time. Classes in high schools are catastrophic, you know, two hours on average a week, which is unacceptable and which leads to severe health problems for young people who have been following them all their lives. There's another problem, it's so-called. Early professionalization of sports, which is that only children who have rich parents can deal with some sports, and other children don't have that chance, so-called. Elitism in sports, which is also a very difficult phenomenon. Children are too early to face sports selection and instead of sports being mass activity, sport is becoming increasingly prestigious activity and the privilege of rich parents. I will mention in the end that sport is the only guarantee, I say that young people do not go the worse way, and that is why more work must be done to introduce more sports classes, physical education in high schools and reintroduction of physical education in colleges. So these are all the problems that burden this bill, which is actually a declaration, and that is precisely why the MPs of the SNS Group are such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56917	I give my word to Mrs. Minister, please, Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56918	I have heard here from some MPs that the ministry has not paid attention or that they are wondering if the Ministry of Youth and the sport of awareness about the real problems of young people. I suppose that's a rhetorical question, especially because awareness of it is visible in the national youth strategy brought by the ministry and where we have included so many other ministries in the desire and trying to solve these problems. As I said, the question of the safety of young people, drugs, health of young people, is not in the direct jurisdiction of this ministry, as is neither the issue of drinking alcohol, or similar topics, because it is simply in the jurisdiction of other ministries. In doing so, we are not, nor are we going to run away from the responsibility of such topics, even on the contrary, we are extremely proactive in the domain available to us in these topics. I'm going to tell you that there are a lot of joint projects done with citizens' associations, especially around peer education, that young people become aware of the problems they face and the way they are able to become aware and the ways they can solve them. I mentioned youth entrepreneurship and I'll tell you that the government has had numerous attempts at hiring young people, first chances, etc. But what is in this ministry's jurisdiction, it's informal youth education, and for example, through the activities we've had together with citizens' associations, we've tried to ask them together to talk about drug abuse, as you can see, this is one of the elevators, full of transmitted diseases, let's talk about AIDS, etc. We have done this, for example, with the youth of JAZAS at the level of all Serbia, but we have done many, many similar projects. I don't want to be accused of boasting in this place about what the ministry did. Those who worked with us, they know it very well. Let me just, for the sake of the public, for those who have not been able to read the elements of the law, mention what is what we define in this bill as funding programmes and projects of public interest in the areas of the youth sector. There are at least 11 points to touch and mention these problems, which we cannot deal with in the most direct way, but we will neither hide nor hide, we will even finance the activities that contribute to solving these problems. For example, the Republic of Serbia budget provides funding for programmes and projects of public interest in the areas of the youth sector, which provide conditions for the development and promotion of youth activities, through encouraging young people to participate actively in social flows. Youth associations are also encouraged. Young people also inform themselves about issues of importance for young people and issue a publication of importance for young people. I'm going to tell you that in the consultation process, young people themselves have identified three key problems that are affecting them. The first problem won't surprise any of you, he didn't surprise me either, and that's unemployment. Another problem, identified by youths themselves, was the problem of not informing young people, insufficiently informing young people. The third problem is the problem of quality offers for leisure. These are three key problems that young people have identified themselves. This is how we try, among other things, by informing them about issues of importance to them, to help them. We also plan to finance projects of public interest, which promote career management and counselling of young people, and organise training, seminars and manifestations of importance for employment, self-employment and youth entrepreneurship. Also, we encourage informal youth education in the youth sector and develop the quality of informal youth education. One of the MPs mentioned that young people are asked to wait for the employment bureau after a while, that by completing colleges they have some kind of work experience or have some special skills that are required of them in competitions. This is exactly how, through informal education, through the elements of volunteering, we are trying to replace at least that issue of lack of experience. What this law also provides is to finance projects that carry out the social empowerment of young people, especially in encouraging volunteerism and youth work and building the capacity of youth associations. Young people are encouraged to spend active and quality free time, to cultivate healthy and safe lifestyles, as well as to meet the needs of young people in the field of culture, which we also consider to be of great importance. Youth activity in the youth sector at local level is encouraged through support for the implementation of local action plans for youth and programmes and projects by local youth offices. I'll tell you that in this year's competition to help apply the local action plan 68 local self-government has received funds from the republican budget to help right now, not with the salaries of the youth coordinators, but with the activities carried out by local action plans. What is also foreseen in the financing is the implementation of research into the situation and needs of young people in the Republic of Serbia. It is important for us to realise and affirm projects of international co-operation in the areas of the youth sector and to support young talent through the award, scholarship and training of students and students. The last thing I wanted to say in the context of this public interest is that we define this law and what would be financed from the province budgets and the budget of local self-government, in this way also, by detailing what is in the public interest. In this sense, I hope that I have at least partially answered your questions, and there will be opportunities when we discuss the elements of the law in particular. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the writing of this law, whether they did so voluntarily, even those who did not, however, if they were interested, and I hope that the debate on amendments will only contribute to the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56919	I thank Mrs. Minister and, of course, her team for their active participation today. The word is Mr. Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56920	Madam Minister, as my party's authorised representative, PUPS, I would like to further potentiate the PUPS's efforts to address the issues and problems of young people in the best possible way. Regardless of some of the difficult words spoken today by individual MPs at the expense of PUPS, I personally and all of us from PUPS, and I believe with pensioners in Serbia, and there are a million and 600,000 of them, we express great concern for the status of young people. Of course, this law provides a chance for young people to organize themselves as it is stated in the law. If all the elderly are to blame for the wars of the '90s, for corruption and the other, to condemn in an unfavorable language a population of the old, I think and protest that it is not right. The government of that time can be criticised, both politicians and politicians of that time, but not all the old, especially the PUPS, which, as everyone knows, was formed only in 2005. Who else can believe that parents and grandfathers or all the old people, pensioners and others wanted and participated in sending their children and grandchildren to war? A question for a young fellow MP who said this -- do you know, dear colleague, that you confirm that your parents were also leading and guilty of going to war? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56921	Thank you. The word is Lydia Dimitrijevic, another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56922	I will try for the remaining minutes and a half to respond to what I was called in the morning part of the session by Mrs. Minister. Yes, when there is a debate on budget rebalancing I will repeat that in all state bodies, but with the constitution recognised by state authorities, wherever there is a need for professional personnel from certain areas, the SRS thinks there will be no problem for such people to be employed. Why would it be? But the SRS will also ask for amendments to the Agency to be abolished, because we believe that by removing those bodies that are not the Constitution, they will save a lot of money and then that money will stand at their disposal, they will be able to place themselves in many projects that will make the lives of young people in Serbia much more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56923	Thank you. Mr. Ivanji, I'll give you my word, just to let you know that we're in direct transmission by 18.10 hours, and I'll let you know when the delayed transmission begins, I don't have information yet. Mr. Zeljko Ivanji has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56924	Finally, I just want to add that today in Serbia, the will to change is articulated in political parties, it is a fact, it is normal and, ultimately, it is desirable, but this law allows youth associations to organise and actively participate in their local lives that they want to create, and it will have a form in this way that they will be able to organise and act. It's what represents the quality of this law. This law may not have a sanction and under this law has nothing to do with it, but it can and that is what is the advantage of this law. So if you can, and the municipality, say, doesn't want to, then there's a problem with that local self-government. So you have the possibility, you have a framework, you fill it with your creativity that's unsettled, creative that can change and can contribute to this community. After all, what is important, if we do not believe the laws of the state, I believe, at the end of God's laws and say the definition of the law in the Gospel according to John, where he says – the law is given to man to be able to distinguish the holy from the holy. For us young people are sacred, and because the Ministry of Youth and Sports represents, I'm sure, and it's confirmed by leaders in this government, because it promotes what is best in Serbia, which is sport and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56925	Thank you. I am concluding a principled review of the proposal for a Youth Law. Thank you again, Madam Minister, thank you to your associates. We move to a common principled Single Search on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa AD Belgrade, Societ General Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Hypo-Alpe-Adria banka a.d. Belgrade, Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad, Commercial Banka, Belgrade and Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d., Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, Proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania to the Republic of Serbia, i.e.e.e. points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a joint principle and uniform review of the proposals of the laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, in addition to the representative of the prime minister, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, I have called on the sittings to attend also Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dragan Ratkovic, Head of the Group for Bilateral Financial Relations at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandar Kocic, Assistant to the Ministry of Finance and Public Debt Management and Dragisa Martinović, adviser to the General Director of the "Srbijagas". A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search of two, three, four and five points of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, shall be one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the MP group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file a statement, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, the PUPS parliamentary group; Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS parliamentary group - JS; Milan Lapčević, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica; Srdjan Spasojevic, New Serbia; Bojan Djuric, LDP; Milorad Buha, SRS and Branka Ljiljak, ZES. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law of the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa AD Belgrade, Societ General Serbia, Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka. Belgrade, Erste Banka. Novi Sad, Commercial Banka A.d., Belgrade and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d., Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbias" Novi Sad, Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania to the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56926	President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister-in-Office, I would like to warn you of Article 87. Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly session works from 10.00 to 1800 hours. The president is obliged to announce an extension. So far, it's been practical to work until 1800 hours and only by the point of the agenda that's under way. I'm looking for an explanation about that, nothing else, and I don't mind doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56927	Vice-President Gordana Comic informed us in the morning that we will work after 18.00 hours, not according to the agenda, it was the contents of the previous Rules of Procedure. Now this explanation is quite enough, so we're working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Just to inform that Mr. Veroljub Arsic will be authorised as a representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. I'm asking Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56928	Dear People's MPs, there are four points in front of you that I would like to explain in the shortest lines. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, the second is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes and we have two financial arrangements, one which refinances short-term commitments which, with the guarantee of the state, become long-term for "Serbia" and, finally, the regulation of one debt, in this case, the Republic of Albania, which has long existed and will ensure that this money is returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the shortest lines, as far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, it is there to implement the statistical harmonisation we already had a few weeks ago in the Property Act. There is one methodological change that is now recognised in all laws that regulate tax matter, i.e. crossing, let me say from a little price to consumer prices. We have a few, though small number of specific situations. One is, I wouldn't explain it much, but the fact is that in 2012 farmers are also proposed to be exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income for 2012. In some ways, it's a practice that was established back in 2001-2002. It continues to reflect the desire of the Republic of Serbia to especially encourage this branch. This will certainly be an incentive for our farmers. As you can see, water is not proposed to end this tax form forever, but it is recognised that next year will be the year where farmers are more likely to be able to prepare quality products for the market than the Republic is benefiting from this compensation. As for volunteering, problems have been observed in practice, where what is compensation is almost always, as a rule, extremely modest. For volunteering, she was sometimes insulted. We know that often those manifestations that are needed, certainly not manifestations that aim to profit, had serious problems to provide a sufficient number of volunteers, because until the proposed change that income was taxed as any other income. Here it is proposed that the fee incurred by the volunteer be paid for the costs of volunteering, the exemption from taxation, and not in abstracto, but in accordance with the law governing the volunteering, which was adopted last year. Finally, one technical understanding about police education. Basically, it's just a alignment with the study nomenclature. It is a technical, statistical harmonisation that is not affected by the key elements of the Income Act, but it is proposed that the benefits of the exemption for the collection of compensation, i.e. Taxation on income on the cadastre, is something that continues and that volunteers do not pay taxes on their compensation. It's about the first law. As far as the second law is concerned, the other law also has one technical aspect, which is to go from one measurement of prices, with a little shift to consumer prices. The same thing as it was in the previous law and as it was in the case of the Property Act. But here we have the same introduction, i.e. further editing of the system, so that the charge of those taxis provided for by the new laws is arranged here, e.g. Traffic safety law. And we have the same essentially what synchronization is, i.e. that what was measured by the end of 2010 goes according to the previous statistical method, and from 1 January of this year, until the end of this month, when this should come into force, to measure according to the new statistical method, so that there is no disturbance in application and that it is known exactly what is charged, and in dinar, I think that it is proposed that if up to five dinars be at below, and above five to 10 dinars. That's what you're suggesting here. I have to say that we also had one specific situation here, which is that in accordance with the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion and with the recommendations that come from those several thousand people who can't achieve one basic right, which is to get the papers in our country, it's seen that one number, and it's hard to say exactly how many, but several thousand of our citizens of Roma nationality, because they didn't have enough funds to pay the corresponding fees, were not able to get out of the status of so-called. Legally looking at invisible people. It is very important that this job that has been started be completed and it should be seen as a step more towards integration and a step more towards the security of our system. We see here that contrary to the efforts of some who wanted to adopt in this home a lex specialis, which would single out this whole group of people and that would introduce a new procedure that would go beyond what is common practice, suggests something that is far more pragmatic, acceptable and self-interested, and acceptable to our members of the administration, but at the same time, it's something that will not destroy our system. Finally, when we talk about these financial arrangements, we have as the third item of the agenda a guarantee given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and yesterday we had the opportunity to distinguish what is a guarantee and what is direct borrowing. Here, to be clear, the borrower was still a Serbian. These banks already have this exposure to Serbiagas, and given the difficulties on one side of bringing the price of natural gas into line on the international market and the fact that Serbiaagas is not allowed to fully transfer or for a long series of months to consumers in general, there is a risk of liquidity in Serbiaagas, and we know that we may have a certain policy to charge natural gas, but on the side of the supplier, the situation is very clear, when gas is not paid, it is no more. That's what happened in the last 10 years. So it's not just in Serbia, that's right, I wouldn't say fortunately, unfortunately, it's just that. Everywhere natural gas is purchased, which is at this moment and in the decades to come, now that one Germany and one Switzerland have decided to shut down within twenty years of their nuclear power plant, surely natural gas will be one energy that will be sought. According to some estimates, even when the South Stream and the North Stream and Nabucco are built and if Europe will be hungry and there will be insufficient natural gas. It thus gives great importance to preserve the functionality and potential of Serbia's further work, because Serbia, which through this guarantee will be able to obtain loans instead of being for two to three years, will be at eight years, with three years of waiting and an interest rate of six-month euros, plus a margin of 4.95%. Okay, colleagues from Serbia want me to be exact 4.19%. It's not 4.95%, it's 4.19% or 419 points, according to the financial world. That's a better interest than the one Serbia is currently paying, but we see that interest is higher than the interest we discussed yesterday in the arrangements, for example. for the budget of the Republic of Serbia from the World Bank source. The proposal is here that due to the specific situation on the market, the fact that the increase in natural gas prices is not passed on to our consumers, the simultaneous need for Serbiagas to function normally in the years to come so that it can participate in the construction of the natural gas pipeline, but also to participate in the construction of natural gas storage, which is currently going on, is proposed that the National Assembly adopt this proposal and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Serbia's budget guarantees 210m euros. As for the last point, after negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Albania, an old debt this country has towards us of about $10m will be paid back to our country within five years. I know that we are very often discussing the regulation of some of the debts our country has towards abroad. Unfortunately, this is a more frequent case than this case we have today, but here is one case where we have found common language with a significant neighbouring country and have made sure that an open issue between Albania and Serbia is closed in this domain. The Republic of Albania is important for our future, for the future of our region, and for that reason it is good that with this regulation, just to note that not only is it done in the area of police, the prevention of organised crime, the consideration of the introduction of Albanian citizens of those benefits that they have introduced to us, which is the possibility of visa-free travel to the country, there are many other bilateral cases and issues that have not long been resolved between Serbia and Albania. Here's one that's being solved for mutual benefit today. So much for me. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Do the rapporteurs of the Finance and Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Which of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president wants a word? First, MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56930	President-in-Office, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for laughing, but Mr. Djelic, I really must give you credit for that skill you've developed in the meantime. You manage to arrive at 18.15 hours in the Assembly, outside the TV broadcast, with proposals for laws of which one implies a guarantee of duty, to be precise, so that we do not get that lecture again, of 210m euros for the ongoing liquidity of Serbiaagas. On the other hand, the Law on Administrative Taxes, which increases the vast majority of taxis in this country, you manage to present it as a law that exempts volunteer work from taxes, which allows our fellow Roma nationalities to change their status and to save the European gas market from failure or economy after nuclear disaster, on the one hand in Japan, that is, the decision of the works of Western European countries to shut down nuclear power plants. That's really fascinating. Mr. Colakovic raised the question why are we talking about this after 18 hours, and I'm adding -- and without television transmission? I think part of that answer is also hidden in the context of the "Serbigas" Guarantee Act. Namely, this law will enter into force the day after the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. This just shows the financial situation of the public enterprise and why this assembly is in such a hurry to complete this session as soon as possible, so that funds from that loan, which are not small, can be withdrawn. It's great that you're here today. You were also in the Serbian Parliament in September 2008 and listened to the story of the South Stream, about the wonders it will do. You mentioned that this loan is important for "Srbigas", so that he could get from better positions, from more liquid positions to get into that big business that is ahead of him or that will be in front of him one day, when it is finally time for the Russian side to come to terms with the realisation of the South Stream. But it is my opinion that with or without this loan, the situation in "Srbiagas" is such that there is no chance that this company will stand on some normal legs, regardless of the fact that the MP and director of the "Serbiagas" are, and I can hardly imagine a more direct conflict of interest than that. Especially since the Assembly decides every few months on new loans for a company that has failed to manage, so when this National Assembly must take on this type of credit obligation or provide guarantees. Mr. Bajatovic often justifies the situation in "Serbiagas" with a weak degree of collection from citizens and businesses, or by the situation that "Srbigas" really cannot reach the consumers always and fully transfer or book the price level paid for the import gas. That data is only partially accurate. Fortunately, in this country, they have been going out regularly and for the past few years they have started to publish on the Agency for Business Registers annual financial reports by all enterprises and by the public company "Serbian Gas". As far as I can tell from that report, unrealised claims from citizens and goods supply companies and services provided at this time or at the end of last year amounted to around 14 billion dinars, so around 140m euros were roughly harshly put. At the same time, the total loans of the "Serbian Gas" exceed 430m euros in short-term commitments and another 245m or 250m in long-term commitments before this debt. The total loss of "Serbigas" is already at 20 billion euros or 200m euros today. If you expect such a company to carry a South Stream construction project with Russia's Gazprom, I think you're in great error. The fact that this loan has a grace period like most of the loans we've been taking lately for two or three years, this loan is specifically three years old, nothing will help. This just means that somewhere in 2014 or 2015, we will come into this problem that you avoided yesterday, which is the possibility that the rules of the Public Debt Act apply to the public finances system in Serbia. You will, of course, say that this is a guarantee and that the primary debtor is "Srbigas", that the Serbian government or the Serbian budget guarantee the payment of loans or the loan war only if the primary debtor fails to fulfil his obligation, but you and I also know that "Srbigas" is not in a situation and will not be in a position for three years to regularly service his credit obligations, as we also take this loan because today is not in a position to make debts neatly service. On the other hand, this loan is not only taken to convert existing short-term loans into long-term loans. That's what you can tell from the explanation. It also serves part of the company’s literal liquid liquidity that apparently fails to serve some of its other regular obligations except for those it has on loans that she has been unwarrantedly taking. I've seen that your associate or colleague from the "Serbiagas" reacted very sharply to one error in the decimal at the interest rate or at the bank margin for this loan. If it were so much about decimals but about percentages in some previous years, I believe that we would not come to such a difficult situation, and you as "Serbiagas" and this assembly and citizens of Serbia who simply have to guarantee these commitments from the budget. You know, this obligation is exactly half of the amount that G 17 plus enjoyed small and poor municipalities in Serbia last week or twice the amount these municipalities will receive this year. Not to mention how much these cities and municipalities owe Serbian gas, because even this price that's now being invoiced can't be paid. Mr. Skundric is no longer here, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is not here, and you represent DS in that government and I do not believe that you have any kind of interest in defending the energy agreement with Russia at all and in general political and economic relations with Russia. There's no Mr. Jeremiah, and I believe he doesn't keep an eye on every word you say here. That's why I'm interested in answering a few questions. For example, to finally hear the price at which "Serbiagas" buys gas on the international market? When you say on the international market, maybe those who don't follow that scene think that gas is bought on some stock market and that they all come to this place where that store is done and have equal chances or equal conditions. So, Serbia, i.e. "Serbigas" buys gas from the Russian Federation, i.e. "Gasprom" or "Gasprom Export", seems to me, which does the job of exporting to Serbia under strictly defined conditions which are the subject of a contract that we sign each year with that state and which differ dramatically from those of other countries, those countries that do not have such brotherly and warm relations, neither do they relate nor welcome the political representatives of the Russian Federation. If we can hear exactly how much it costs 1,000 cubic metres of gas at the Ukrainian-Hungarian border where "Srbigas" takes over, that is, the risk of each loss for the quantities of gas delivered and the price for the same amount for some countries in the environment and for the average EU countries, on the one hand, Germany or Austria or other countries in the environment, say those countries that are together with us in the South Stream project, so that we can even talk about whether gas prices on the domestic market are justified and how rational it is that "Serbia" calculates the loss between the purchase price and the one at which it is sold to end consumers. We need to see under what circumstances we're buying gas from the Russian Federation. The second question is, when are we finally going to end this traffic broker, Jugorosgas? The strange company in which the Russian side still has 75% ownership, although Mr. Bajatovic promised two or two and a half years ago to change the arrangement, is Serbia's ninth most successful company last year, although he has 20 employees, which is no wonder, given that he deals only with the brokering business, or the fact of the obligation to "Srbigas" as an importer in Serbia. Twenty million euros was the company's net profit last year. In such conditions, it is no wonder that the company is in ninth place for success in this country. On the other hand, the company is very selective or very messy in fulfilling some of its obligations under arrangements with the Russian Federation, gasification projects in southern Serbia, and local self-government units, such as in Luciani and some other municipalities, seem to be permanently freed from payments and utility fees and other obligations that exist to the state. You mentioned a gas storage facility in Serbia, that is, the fact that it is in front of "Srbigas" and that investment. A few weeks ago, I raised this issue to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister and I didn't get an answer, and maybe I'll get it from you -- how that reconstruction works -- how that natural gas storage facility is transformed into an operational warehouse that will be able to save Serbia from these situations, that in the winter season it buys an intervention gas, that pays it much more expensive, and that there is generally a huge risk on the part of local citizens and that we will run out of gas, not if we don't meet our obligations, care if any of the countries on the current pipeline route, as was the case a few years ago with Belarus, for any reason we are left without gas delivery. There is a Banatski Dvor company now owned by "Serbigas" on one side and "Gasprom Germania", I think, on the other hand, as a dependent company, "Gasprom" registered in Germany. So far, she has brought 28m, 28000 euros into this company, as I think 99.92% of ownership. On the other hand, the Russian Federation has entered a minimum founding role of 28,000 euros. There's 0.88% ownership in that company. At the same time, the Russian side has three members on the board of directors, and the Serbian side has two members. All business decisions can generally be made by the Russian side, and business decisions, for example, are interesting for both the company and "Srbigas". The underground warehouse is filled with gas purchased from the same company, Gazprom, which is co-owner of the joint venture. When I look at the thing like that, then this conflict of interest of Mr. Bajatovic may seem harmless, in relation to that gap we've been involved in in this way in the conclusion of an energy agreement with Russia and the speed, the degree of realization of that contract that we have in the past few years. The abuse of the monopoly or dominant position of "Srbigas" on the domestic market is not worth talking about. Even in a country like this, the Competition Protection Commission has made decisions against "Srbigas", with all the power currently concentrated in the company and practically in the political structures that maintain it in this state. You know what, those stories always look kind of on a long stick, these are the usual criticisms of the opposition to this law. However, when it comes to "Yugorosgas", "Srbigas", the opposition's criticism mainly comes down to criticisms of the LDP and other political parties, parties having a slightly different relationship with Russia, or think that love for Russia is proven by agreeing to, practically, slave relations in this kind of business communication. Very rarely speak of this at all. I didn't mention you at all, and I didn't mention the Serbian Progressive Party. I don't know why you recognized yourself in this, but great that you did. The second law you've been talking about here is the law on the Republic's administrative fees, that is, the amendments to that law. I admit that there are some extorted solutions or solutions that had to be adopted this time, because of some laws that came into force in the meantime and the absence of certain taxis in our old law. Some of the taxes, as far as I could see, were reduced. Let's say, the fees relating to vehicle registration and other procedures in the area, which is very important for our citizens, but there are several serious problems in this law and the Liberal Democratic Party has submitted, I think, three amendments. I think that in some places, income space on the side of the state is sought in a distinction that so far did not exist between the amount of tax for a request or for some services provided to natural persons, from those taxis that are charged to legal persons. Let's not go back to some round definition, the fee is by nature of things, by definition, the price of that service that the state provides to a particular legal entity, so much the fastest to say. It should not contain in itself any kind of profit or any indirect punishment against a citizen, or according to a legal person for even entering that kind of request to the state. You have one tax in this law, which is charged on a request to give an opinion, an interpretation, an explanation of a regulation of a republican rank, and you are now introducing development for the first time, it seems to me, amongst the demands of a natural person, for which a tax of 1,070 dinars is charged, if I quote correctly, and a requirement which is referred to by the legal person for which that fee is 10,000 dinars. I don't see a rational explanation for that. It's generally interpreted as the same kind of regulation. Serbia's legal system is unique. There are very common situations that the same type of request can direct a natural person in some relationship and a legal person. Which makes it almost ten times the tax expected of a legal person and entrepreneurs, as the law says, unless it counts on its naturally higher economic power, since it is some commercial entity that is supposed to make a profit on the market? It seems to me that too high is the amount of taxis, i.e. that the Ministry which I assume worked this amendment and the addition of the Law, after the opinion of some other authorities of the state administration, has increased in a rather radical way, let's say, some of the fees charged in the issue of different types of certificates, i.e. a certificate for products that are plant polluters or used in agricultural production, there are some taxes raised from 13,000 to 45,000, or to 80,000 dinars. Otherwise, I think the market is relatively weak in Serbia and there are serious problems in agricultural production, so this may not be the best way for the state to collect, realistically, no more than a few million dinars. Although, in real life, income on this basis will be significantly lower. In some other places in the law there are such illogicalities. We tried to change them and remove them with amendments. I believe that even in the debate on amendments or with the Government's opinion, that these amendments will be accepted in full or in part, we will be able to remove some of these problems. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act contains more or less of the amendments you mentioned. I don't think that, especially when a session is under these circumstances and in this way, there is a need to talk about it in particular. But please let us at least have some answers to these questions, especially those related to "Srbigas" and its business arrangements, so that we can even discuss the guarantee of a new debt of 210m euros, at interest rates which you said were slightly more than the ones we agreed to yesterday. I think they are several times more and it simply speaks of credibility and the business position of the client who takes them, i.e. "Serbiagas" who is trying to solve his acute financial or business problems, which are largely caused by catastrophic governance in the sector. Those problems when they come for payment. What's going on in Galenica these days, I think the best warning of such a possible scenario.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56931	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, we have before us a set of laws that you in your opening discussion very, in my opinion, have made very clear. You performed according to the system when you talked about the first bill – cold, warm, soft. That's how I realized it. It's not a problem. The state makes some concessions, something related to agricultural producers, then volunteers. Then, where it's completely hot, in my opinion, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you practically ran there very quickly and you explained it much less than this first legal proposal. In the end, you ended up very quickly with this thing about Albania and that someone needed to return something to us and then you thanked us. It's all been two, three minutes, and I think it's inconclusive. It's unserious for a simple reason, because such legal proposals get in the hands of citizens. The pocket of Serbian citizens is already overcrowded with many gatherings, Mr. Djelic, and I will talk about it later. Practically in these two or three last years, Mr. Djelic, we've had 50% increase in court taxis, an increase in electricity to 15%, an increase in life supplies every day. Last week or two weeks ago, we had an increase in gas excises. When you look at all this and make a turn in some neighborhood, with that first legal text, you're talking about some relief for farmers. But who will explain to farmers that during the season, when practically expected harvest and many other activities, fuel at our pumps is the most expensive in the environment. We've still raised that with excises. We had Mr. Ugljanin who practically admitted here that it was a budget charge and that it had to and that it would be divided according to some social criteria. It's not a good policy, Mr. Djelic. Somehow, the hand on the heart, all these laws that are very sensitive, somehow you always find yourself there to defend them, and these, as supposedly, some who are prosperous, like just before about young people, or the other day, transfer to municipalities, what we had, they confided in someone else. In that sense, I must admit it's not easy for you, but in principle, it's your own fault. These increases we have in taxis are so much that a man's head is completely spinning when he sees something like that. My colleague Đuric said a completely unusual thing before me, and it is completely illogical that someone who makes laws, who allegedly publishes them, who are public and where transparency exists, in interpreting something, first of all, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I consider as unlike Mr. Đurić, that interpretation should not be charged at all and there should be no tax on it. Why does something that needs to be interpreted have to pay a fee? It was, as we saw, equalization and now suddenly for some private entrepreneurs 10 times the tax. Do you think that these private entrepreneurs can pay for something immeasurably, and especially to respond to these purchases that are 10%? You are, say, a businessman and I will remind you that some differences that exist, if something has to be charged, the difference between natural persons when you pay for electricity or heat from companies is only double or slightly more, but nothing is 10 times more. Now I'd like to ask you to concentrate. What, for example, about a situation that is here, say, when you talk about the effects of this law, would I ask your representatives to say what they think or you say when you eventually respond to this mine? It says-What costs will law enforcement create for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises? The answer to this is – Republic and administrative fees are charged in order to settle the costs incurred by the body's actions when providing specific services at the request of interested parties. I really don't think this has anything to do with the cost answer. Now, imagine the situation, Mr. Djelic, if a natural person or a legal person asks you to interpret something like this, and then you say- pay 10,000, or 1,070 dinars, to interpret it to you. Practically, it comes to a previous question that laws are unclear, that interpretations are charged. If the laws are absolutely clear, no one will ask for an interpretation. However, in the abundance of these things and legislative proposals that often appear and the speed you do all of this, interpretations are necessary, and then you're well aware that we charge such nice high fees for interpretations. I'll do my best to point out some more things about what all these gatherings are. The tariff number, for example, heading 44nd is increasing from 3,920 dinars to 10,000 dinars. Tariff number 69. item 1. increase from 13.990 dinars to 80,000 dinars. Tariff number 69nd item 2 is increasing from 13.990 dinars to 45,000 dinars. The 85th tariff number is increasing from 7.290 dinars to 30,000 dinars. So, gatherings up to four or five times as many. Mr. Djelic, you are often in contact with the IMF. Just remember the situation when we were talking about an increase in pensions of 2% or an increase in wages of 2-3%, so the IMF has given some approvals 10 times, so it can't, so it can't, etc. I ask you responsibly - do you IMF, in order to protect Serbian citizens, notify this kind of thing in general when you raise something 10 times, five times, six times, electricity 15%, excise fuel etc? As long as it takes for the citizens of Serbia to be exhausted because you can't simply understand that with an average salary of 30K and a change of thousands of dinars in Serbia there is no improvement. Mr. Djelic, with such standards and with such treatment for the citizens of Serbia, I really think you are the biggest brake to join the EU. In order to enter the EU, everyone must in some way be founded, that the standard of living is good, that citizens... We don't have any laws at all, Mr. Djelic, here to say, something's going to be cheap, but just hoarding, hoarding, hoarding. Until when? Well, you're an expert on some economic issues, and I think I really... Come on, make a legal proposal, on your initiative here, to make something in this country cheap. New Serbia and hopefully other opposition parties will support such a thing, but when we keep talking about the gatherings, it simply cannot be avoided that you are not taking care of the citizens of Serbia. For the sake of complete objectivity, it should be concluded that the proposed amendments and additions to the law deletes a certain number of existing tariff positions. However, it is only a drop in the sea, Mr. Djelic, of new tariff attitudes introduced by the same law. With careful analysis of the bill, we counted more than 125, which is completely new tariff positions, which are tariff positions where an increase in existing tax is proposed. The analysis of the bill concludes that the most aggressive in the invention of new taxis was the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, and immediately followed by the Ministry of Interior, etc. Okay, we know with the MUP that there are frequent changes, here, we've had changes in passports and some adjustments, etc., but for this increase, but for this increase in the environment, I just have to say -- is that a desire to raise the costs of those frequent actions of "Let's Clean Serbia"? Every month we clean something up. Why are taxes increasing to that extent? The government, as a legislator, notes that fees are charged to cover the costs incurred by the body in providing concrete services at the request of interested parties. Do not dispute this fact, we remind the legislator that the identification of inappropriately high taxis often results in attempts to circumvent legitimate procedures and thus a negative effect on the budget of the Republic. It is much better to define the amount of tax so that it adequately covers the costs of the body whose conduct is required, but at the same time does not destimulate natural persons and legal persons to address that body when there is a legitimate need. Indeed, there is a legitimate question – whether the legislator, inspired by the RES initiative, had taken care of finding that fine balance we had previously talked about, given that such high taxes were demotised by business initiatives and entrepreneurship in various areas of economic activity. You know how we keep talking about how investors should come to Serbia, make certain investments, encourage it all, but the fact is that, in principle, investors often come because of the cheap workforce that is in Serbia, often because of what they count, of course, on a certain profit, but I'm sure that when you show them something like this, and when you tell them that something when they need to interpret it, they should pay 10,000 dinars, regardless of what it is 100 euros, I think that someone will smile and very often some such small things can also drive serious investors away. It's practically not a closed circle of many fictitious things. I'm afraid there's a lot of, a lot of exaggeration in this tax code, and I don't think that's absolutely right. I'll take this opportunity, Mr. Djelic, given that I've asked you several times a parliamentary question, since you were there when I set it up, and today I mentioned the price of electricity, that I fought 15% that there should be no increase in electricity at all, you were there in the same place when I asked you about the King, about the earthquake that was, that there was no increase in the price of electricity. I thought you accepted that. On the means of public information, it was in the evening, and my proposal, or New Serbia's proposal, was accepted, but the next day when I had certain contacts, that I probably got from other MPs support from the King for not belonging to the ruling furniture. I'm told that for some reason, that it's not a common practice, you're simply hitchhiking. Whether that or not, I would ask you to respond at some point because I'm not getting it, I took advantage of this opportunity, I didn't get a single written answer, and that's why I would also have you for the citizens of the Kings who are still suffering the enormous consequences of that devastating earthquake, I think it made sense to do something like that. So, Mr. Djelic, by bringing an end to my discussion, once again there are constant gatherings in all life segments. Before this session at the break, I had an opportunity with a parent from the King whose daughter lays her architecture tomorrow, if someone is not on the budget in this country to pay 2,400 euros in tuition. That's eight average personal incomes from the mother of that child. When you constantly impose more of these things on all those gatherings that I just said, we're all really blacked out here. I think you've overstepped the Tax Act in particular. New Serbia has submitted certain amendments and I hope that in the discussion in particular, when it comes to affecting some of these amendments that might improve this law and accept it. I repeat once again, specifically for these fees, we believe that the fees on interpreting any legal proposal that this assembly has made should not be charged either for natural persons or legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56933	I give my word to MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56934	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly been able to discuss amendments and amendments to tax laws and those so far have not been essential, therefore, radical character, but have already been changed in theory known as partial amendments to tax laws. Today, amendments and additions to the Law on income tax of non-essential citizens, radical character and parliamentary club of the SPS-JS have also been made to the law to achieve objectives such as, above all, statistical and methodological changes due to the need to reconcile dinar amounts, therefore, instead of rising prices at a small, annual consumer price index, therefore, data published by the Republic Statistics Office, the release of farmers from the obligation to pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry, therefore, on catastran income for 2012. After all, it has been a practice since 2004 and certainly represents some kind of incentive for this activity. Of course, exemption from taxation of fees incurred by volunteers, exemption from taxation of fees paid to students of a high school institution established to achieve study programmes for the needs of police education. So it's about freedoms and exemptions and, of course, it's acceptable for us. What is important to note is that the changes mentioned do not endanger the regular flow of money into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus certainly do not endanger the macroeconomic stability of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. However, in the context of this topic, so to amend and supplement the Law on Income Tax, I would like to make a few views and proposals advocated by the SPS MPs, and I am sure Minister Djelic is certainly a competent talker and participant in this debate, because, at the time when he was Minister of Finance, he contributed to a significant reform, of course in a positive way, when it comes to the work of the Tax Administration and tax legislation. The Socialists are primarily committed to reducing the fiscal burden of the lowest earnings, and we believe that this would stimulate greater employment of unqualified and less qualified workers whose unemployment rate is high. We have repeatedly used the debate when the subject is tax legislation, to advocate an increase in the untaxable amount of earnings. Let's say 16 thousand and more, which would certainly reduce the work to gray and black, because it's known that this tax form follows that market. Working on black is a complete move in the gray zone, so where no public revenues are paid, and we also have that gray zone where the profits and revenues that are non-taxable are paid, and that part that would be taxed is paid on black. In this way, a vision of employment is created, and above all, it is a case where workers are deprived of many rights, and that is why at the moment we have a significant drop in the collection of taxes on the income of citizens and contributions unlike another tax form, what is the tax on additional value, where the collection is very good. We have a significant involvement of this tax form in GDP. Therefore, on this subject, I would also like to point out that the responsibility of the state and state authorities is excluded and that, with this measure I have proposed, which the Socialists are also committed to should be given full support for one reorganisation of the Tax Administration and giving priority primarily in material and any other form. We are really ready to give full political support and contribution to this so that this data that has insisted that we in Serbia have around 30% of GDP in contrast to highly developed countries where it is half less. We have had the opportunity here several times to justify giving some independent institutions the importance of increasing earnings, so I say justifiable, but I think it would be very justified for the taxpayers in the Tax Administration to increase profits, improve the material position, and this would certainly, within a very short time, reflect the increased income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Republic of Serbia is unfortunately facing a decline in the birth rate and population ageing process and it is a matter of the biological survival of the nation and we have today had a debate on the youth law where it has been repeatedly pointed out that the future belongs to young people. We Socialists believe that a comprehensive and unique system of incentive measures is certainly needed because the problem is not only of a social or economic nature, and it is certainly due to a change in the system of values, lifestyle. We therefore believe that, in addition to the reliefs, let's say in the system of education, health care, employment, resolving housing issues, that there was a need for a single tax policy in the function of demographic policy, and it was really nothing new, there was in many countries, there was a tax on non-marriage and non-marriage in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, there were reliefs and releases, and we really consider this a very important topic and we expect in this sense certain changes in tax policy to be a topic here in parliament. In the case of amendments to the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes, we believe that those are the essence which speaks of the fact that a number of regulations have been introduced in the meantime in which certain actions are being carried out are being carried out, it is indeed the basis that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes for us is acceptable, and therefore this fact that certain statistical alignments are being made here in terms of the harmonisation of tariffs, the annual consumer price index. I would not like to speak more in detail about this law except that, in addition to all those topics we have heard so far, I would like to point out a good reaction in this law, and as regards certain remarks and suggestions that have been made by diplomatic and consular representations and to foresee the possibility of certain fees being paid in cash, so that our citizens can be allowed in the event that banks do not work, when they do not have open current accounts and thus enable them to solve some of their problems. The upcoming two financial arrangements are also acceptable for the SPS-JS parliamentary club, primarily the one concerning the realisation of the debt with Albania, which amounted to about eight and a half million dollars on September 30th 2009. We think he's good and we need to take advantage of the opportunity to make him real. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the granting of a RS guarantee in favour of several banks under the responsibility of the Serbian gas company, although this JP Serbia gas is doing one responsible job, we believe it is now very successful. For us, it's very important that Article 3. The RS budget law in 2011, which we adopted here in Parliament, envisioned a guarantee under this JP 210m euros. This law and the provision of Article 4 provides for the right to be guaranteed and to vomit instead of the user to fulfil the obligation to repay the loan and with the conditions we have heard it seems very favourable. Respecting all that I have said so far, I express the principled support of the SPS-JS parliamentary club of the envisaged law that is today subject to principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56935	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President-in-Office, Mr Vice-President of the Government, Mr Co-Employers, the PUPS Parliamentary Group has been very responsible in preparing for today's session of the Assembly to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Starting with the urgent need to exercise responsibility in showing non-taxable dinar amounts with the rest of inflation in the conduct of responsible monetary policy, and with the annual consumer price index, we support the obligation of harmonisation in a way that will correspond to all, and above all to the taxpayer, because its tax obligations will be consistent with the real value of the dinars. The PUPS considers that the high achievement of the exemption of farmers from the obligation to pay taxes on income, from agriculture and forestry, and through the cadastrian income for 2012. If someone in this has seen a populist measure, not the provision of significant incentives for further development and investment in agriculture. The PUPS will support the exemption measure from the taxation of fees incurred by the volunteer in order to compensate for the costs of volunteering in the malt with the law governing it, holding that this measure is necessary and direct assistance to those who are due to enter into a working relationship tomorrow. In earlier statements on the legal solutions that are being made here, we have pledged to exempt from taxation the fees paid to students of higher education institutions established to achieve study programmes for the needs of police education. We are aware of the fact that there is no binding EU regulation in relation to the income of Serbian citizens, which would eventually require harmonisation, which is very good. We also agree with the view that regulation of the tax law provides a full contribution to the legal and economic security of taxpayers, the tax system and the state itself, while ensuring full public access to tax policy. This law allows for compliance with the basic measure of inflation, the introduction of monetary policy, or the annual amount of consumer prices, with the possibility of using more legal basis for all the benefits of paying the income tax. Decisions given by this law amend and supplement important provisions of the law, so that the income tax for citizens for receipts is no longer paid on the basis of which I will now specify and for which the PUPS is fully satisfied. Right, to all regulations on the rights of war people with disabilities, parental and child benefits, compensation for foreign assistance and care and compensation for physical damages, unemployment benefits, material security in accordance with the law, health insurance compensation, property insurance, material and non-material damages, assistance in the event of the death of an employee and his family and retired worker up to 50,660 dinars. It is particularly good that aid for the destruction or damage of property due to natural disasters is also a release. Then, organising humanitarian aid, scholarships and loans from students and students at a monthly amount of 8.685.00 dinars. Then the fees for the feeding of athletes in the monthly amount of 7237.00 dinars, compensation for the work of convicted persons, benefits and benefits for the work of patients in psychiatric institutions, salaries for the work of persons in the authorities for the conduct of elections and censuses, pensions and disability benefits that are in line with the basics of the rights of compulsory PIO insurance, i.e. military insurance, severance allowances for retirement, severance fees, or cash benefits for employees whose work has stopped the need, cash benefits for persons who stop working, who are in the process of rationalising restructuring and preparation for privatisation. Then, the fees for the work of fosterers and the maintenance of users in the foster family, the fees for soldiers to serve the military deadline, the fees for students of higher school institutions of police education, premiums, subsidies, regressions and other means to encourage the development of agriculture in municipalities in the Republic. It's really one of the best solutions that could be given by this bill. Then VAT compensation for value added tax on income from agriculture and forestry, rewards to students and students won in education system competitions and costs of volunteering. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that in these 27 categories, all those who need to be exempt from income tax are largely covered. That's when we stand for a better and better definition of so-called. other incomes which, in their nature, constitute income from natural persons, and above all, are revenues based on the contract of work, revenue on the basis of temporary contracts, revenue on the basis of supplementary work, income on the basis of trade representation, the receipt of members of the board of directors and supervisory board of legal persons, fees to MPs and committees, compensation for the execution of civil protection and protection against elementary disasters, the receipt of bankruptcy managers, judicial experts, judges of jurors and court interpreters. Then income based on the collection and sale of secondary raw materials, forest fruits, medicinal plants, breeding and sale of mushrooms, from the cultivation of the sale of bee swarms, the sale of snails, forest fruits, etc. The PUPS Group advocates amending and supplementing the Tax Act that citizens' income is seriously and responsibly to discuss or discuss in principle or in particular, as well as to cover all the conditions and categories of amendments, both in taxation and for release. In voting day, we will support all the best solutions in these laws. With due regard, the PUPS Group also considered the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes in the period of entry into force of the previous Law on Administrative Taxes to date the need to comply with the subject of a tax liability with the files in the jurisdiction of the Republic, which are paid through the Republic's administrative fee, whether new jobs or the termination of the basis for the conduct of certain actions. Almost all ministries have found that the need for old taxes to be innovated, to introduce new taxes and to set their price. The amendments and additions of this law apply to almost all tariff numbers, regardless of which law and by which basis is applied. Your opinion was necessary to introduce new legal bases and establish the legal basis and new values of administrative taxis on the cards and fees for the movement of foreigners, as well as visa files. It is inevitable that, in accordance with the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads and its new regulations, a new dossier is to be set out and a new dossier is to be prescribed, the execution of which is to be paid for the Republic's administrative fees. Major changes in fees to be applied in the coming period are also with the Ministry of Environment, Mining, Spatial Planning. So there have also been changes in earlier files provided for in the jurisdiction of human and minority rights, state administration and local self-government. It is normal for this ministry to have the largest number of administrative fees on headings 1.6.8.9.11, etc. A huge job carried out by administration authorities in municipalities and at republican level must be introduced into new tariff commitments. The finance ministry with its sectors, inspectorates, directorates and administrations also belongs to a ministry with which thousands of our citizens perform daily administrative, legal, economic, commercial and many other actions and jobs. Each of these actions is related to a certain tariff number by the same issue of the files, it is approved, certified and the administrative fee must be charged. The Ministry of Trade, Forestry and Water Management has received more than 30 new legal solutions and regulations in the last period, with the implementation of which headings 5, 26, 64 and so on are opened. All headings A need to carry out a large number of administrative actions and charge a fee. The PUPS parliamentary group had in mind that these amendments and amendments to the law were in fact confirmed by all elements of the system and public income policy and that they must be dealt with by law, not by sublegal acts, which is very good. All must be aware that these solutions, which will not be cemented, are variable legal matter, which must be regularly changed and complemented by appropriate amendments and amendments to the law, and all in accordance with some economic environment, according to the needs of citizens, according to the legal solutions made in Parliament. The PUPS believes that the regulation of the matter of the Republic's administrative taxis is primarily determined by the legal certainty of citizens, while at the same time ensuring the public by introducing a tax policy of our country. The law is a general legal act which is published and which gives equal rights and obligations to all entities that are in the same legal situation, which also legitimateises a citizen as a user and a state as a giver of that legitimacy. The PUPS Group estimates that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes will have a very positive impact on the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as it is now uniting in one place the subject of tax obligations with files and actions from the jurisdiction of all the republican authorities. In addition, the adoption of this law will confirm the acceptance of all international conventions adopted by this Parliament, in which it undertakes to protect interests and to assist all our citizens in the realisation of all legal, administrative, business, minority, state and consular affairs that they have abroad. The new law on the Republic's administrative fees now fully defines the fees charged in order to settle the costs of all workers executed by the authorities of the state when providing services to citizens. The PUPS parliamentary group is of the opinion that the amount of fees for the relevant documents and actions of the Authority is well defined in relation to their complexity and that these relations will not have a negative impact on the provision of funds and revenues of budgets intended for the settlement of the costs of the Authority and in order to provide services to our citizens more quickly and efficiently. The fees represent public revenue which the Authority charges as a fee for a specific service and they are not intended to encourage the creation of new operators on the market, nor to create market competition, which we support. The Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in our opinion, should be adopted with a partial improvement and a partial technical order in some tariff numbers, as well as a reduction in the amount of individual taxis. The PUPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56937	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56938	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to start by a little bit on the context in which this debate is being held. Today is June 28th, Vidovdan, where the Serbian people, the Serbian state, marks one of the greatest holidays as the memory of the greatest battle this nation has fought during its history. In normal countries, this day would be celebrated unworked or celebrated at work, but at least in the evening it would be possible for everyone to participate in many events held throughout the country. Tonight, many universities are being held in many cities, one of them is in Nis, but the National Assembly has a great need to today, that tonight, to work full-time to pass new laws that will be for the benefit of citizens, and these new laws will be new debts of 210m euros, new administrative fees that will be imposed on citizens, new changes of income tax laws, etc. I don't think there's really any excuse for this kind of procedure. We sat at home last week. We had no urgency to work in parliament, to pass these laws, but it is important that yesterday, especially today, work day and night to achieve some deadlines. It only speaks of the relationship of the ruling coalition, the government to its own state, its own tradition, its own people. That's one context, so it's an honor to you to do what's done today. Another context is the debate on laws that will put Serbia in charge of 210m euros that will impose additional fees on various services that the state provides to citizens and legal persons, and we open this debate on these four laws at half seven in the evening. It's important that we do it tonight, as soon as possible, of course, without cameras present, so that it can be seen as little as possible and as little as possible. Even the Deputy Prime Minister, as an authorised representative, came to us more quickly to explain the proposed laws, so the man confused himself, quickly grasped some conclusions to explain what it was really about, so he told us to amend the Law on Administrative Taxes, which has no less than 40 pages and one 80 members, to say that the main changes were that no fees would be charged when they were late to enroll Roma children in the book of borns. Indeed, a dreary picture and saddened about what seriousness this parliament is doing and what attention it provides to the MPs, that they can talk in an argumentative way about important topics for all citizens. Let's get in line. As for the amendment of the Income Tax Act, harmonisation is technically, I can understand, it's all justified. One of the main things that the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned is the release of businessmen from paying taxes on catastrian incomes from agriculture, it's a good thing, nothing new, and for the past ten years it's been happening the same thing, I don't need to ask for any laurels because of it, but the question is what income, income and profit farmers can at all have and expect in these conditions that exist in this country, where the market is completely liberalised, where they have no protection and where they have state aid on a spoon for what they do. In what the state needs most to protect them, which is to protect their crops and what they invested, to at least buy those anti-building missiles, in which the state did not protect them at all. She even sent an assistant minister of emergency situations into an information programme of state television to explain to the villagers that it is no longer modern, nor is it in line with European trends that the protection of agricultural cultures is done through disgusting anti-urban missiles, but is done by insurance, so we need to get into the EU as soon as possible so that farmers can secure their crops, because when we enter the EU and when the villagers can, I don't know what, to secure their crops, then the city will no longer fall. Of course, then we'll have income, so we'll tax those same peasants. It's a sad picture. When it was added that we heard about a dozen days ago that the administration or the ministry had opened a tender for the purchase of these anti-urban missiles, then the painting is really more than just gloomy and miserable. So the income tax, or the exemption of farmers from taxes on agricultural income, is a dead letter on paper, because it will not be, will be only minus, so the question is how will these people and how will they be able to compensate for the damage. The next law is a law on political administrative fees that has 80 members and various tariffs. One of them was mentioned, it was the release of taxi payments on the subsequent entry of Roma into the book of borns. Good thing, you have to provide others, not just them, especially those who don't have to pay taxes, but you don't say the main things in this administrative tax law, and I'm gonna mention some. For example, Article 24, which says that the tariff number of that and that number 3,920 dinars, is replaced by 10,000, which will say that the tax on a particular thing is paid three times more. Next member, for example. In the tariff number 40, the figure of 7.290 replaces the amount of 30,000 and it would be really too long and dreary to ask for all members where several times the administrative tax is increased, so it also mentioned one of the previous MPs to say interpreting the laws of the Republic of Serbia, if they are looking for a natural person, then there will be 1,000 dinars, if a legal person is asked for 10,000 dinars, and this is the contribution of the state and the state authorities to create as favourable business environment as possible, so that those who operate as legal entities in the state of Serbia, will have as little charge as possible and could achieve as little profit as possible, that they have no losses, that they do not go into bank loans and hire as many people as possible, and that is probably the biggest problem in this country. We need to enable these people to make their country as cheap as possible, to pay as little taxes and taxis as possible to raise their business and thus raise their standard in our country. No, everything here goes in reverse logic, which is as much tax and imposition as possible, for citizens and for the state, we need money in the budget for different detachments, we have debts to these, to those. Is there another model? Can the government offer any other model besides what it offers today? Today, when there is no money, raise taxes, raise taxes, raise prices for various services, when the company or state is in trouble, raise loans, no one asks how and how long? Is there perpetuals for this story? It doesn't exist. There's got to be an end to that. How are we going to make up for those loans? Who will pay the loan that we, as a state, will guarantee to Serbia for 210m euros to cover Serbia's losses, in order to pay for gas. By the way, of course the state must provide citizens with regular gas supplies and must react in these situations, but if the state of Serbia as an entity whose tax is paid by all citizens of this country, it guarantees that Serbia, which distributes gas only on a certain part of Serbia's territory, that is, where the gas supply service does not have all Serbian citizens, I do not know whether it is very useful for all citizens to bear the cost of the loss that Serbia has. I don't think that's fair to those who haven't even made that debt. Did the state also wonder if the government was wondering how the Serbian debt came about and whether it went into the depths of Serbia's business? How did those debts come to be? How did that loss come to be? Is there room in this Serbiagas for some savings? I'm sure there is. As she has in every company she owns, as she does in the end, both the state administration and the state register. I guess, when citizens go to the polls to vote for their representatives, they go with the intention of choosing those who will provide them with a service provided by the state, legal certainty, social security, employment, any benefits that a citizen of a state can have, should be as cheap and as rational as possible, more accessible. In the Law on Administrative Taxes, tens of them are introduced into hundreds of new regulations, which pay a tax, so I don't know – a request to issue a driver's license of 210 dinars, and for issuing a driver's license another 370, I don't know what that means? We want for every piece of paper that we can ask for a tax, for everything possible, for the application of an exam for a fisherman of 1,000 dinars, for getting that certificate another 2,000, 3,000 dinars, for an annual renewal of 2,000, 3,000 dinars, so how many people? We can't prescribe taxes for every possible thing and impose new charges on people. If there's no money in the budget, then gentlemen, first of all, from the first man. When there's not enough money in the budget, then I guess the host starts thinking about himself, so he takes off his cigarettes, goes out to the pub, and I don't know what things. I think that the representatives of the government, starting with the president of the state, the Prime Minister, ministers, various agencies, various directors, various ministerial assistants, state secretaries, have room to make savings in their budgets, certainly have, much more than these new regulations and administrative fees will be collected. But, no, it's easier for those who exercise power to be comfortable and for the citizens to do so. What's the difference, they write them down, so he says, for the registration of the processing register, or I don't know, on request, or for a solution to the application for a solution for the placing on the market of plant protection funds 80,000, and for that solution, another 45,000. Is that normal? We should encourage those who make something, make something and benefit from it, and that the state benefits from it, to be that product that's cheaper on the market. If the state taxes him and charges him, how much will that product cost? A lot more than it would have cost if it hadn't been for those government duties. Who's gonna pay in the end? He'll pay for a regular man. Then we talk about how poor we are in Europe and how our lowest wages are. How can they not be, when the state is the generator of it. Unreal business, a lot of spending, too many civil servants, expensive states, expensive administrations, regulations abnormal at every possible step, various taxes and impose and, of course, they will be expensive states and citizens poor. Of course that's how it's gonna be, and consumption's crazy. No one's thinking of making savings on that scale but as soon as it's short, let's increase the burdens to increase revenues. It won't be like that forever. The credit for Serbiaagas, another 210 million, and in three years' time the government, as the government was formed, will be nearly three years away, the National Assembly has ratified dozens of people in charge of various projects, but also rich in bank budgets. Those who run the statistics calculated that more than 4.5 billion euros were ratified in these three years, as they will say, it was in one text where economic analysts said how much the state owed, that we owed 3,300 euros every minute of these three years. It was data from last week, as we ratified the other day, yesterday, some more loans, and that already crossed a 3,500-euro-per-minute figure. So, 43, 45% of the debt, says the Minister of Economy yesterday, we still have room, we can go to 60. We keep boasting about how the state can still be in debt. What kind of luck is that? Lucky you could still be in charge? I mean, you admit that you're not doing anything, but you're spending a lot more and someone else is going to give you a guarantee on this, on that, so when the charge comes, and there's nothing to pay for, then we're going to grab our heads. Gentlemen, it's not good work either as a state, and especially for you as a ruling set, nothing good is written to us, this is not going to work out for long, and I'm afraid that those who come after you will have a lot of trouble stabilising the state and explaining to the people that it's "excessed the gift measure" and that it's going to have to tighten the belt a lot more than it would normally be in any normal country when it comes to situations like this. Of course, it does not occur to us as a parliamentary group to support the country's further borrowing, without having previously done an analysis of how these debts have arisen and whether they can be reduced through more rational business and safer business of these public enterprises. We have no idea that we are imposing new burdens on citizens, who cannot pay even what the basics are, they cannot even provide themselves with a decent existence because of a very poor economic climate that is caused by a partial and global economic crisis, but, God, the most incompetence of the ruling set. Do not expect support from the DSS MPs for such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56939	MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I tried Mr. Vice President, who was authorized by these points of the agenda, at least when he talked about the income tax of citizens and the republican administrative fees, which I understand better, but it was really hard. It seems to me that Mr Djelic has not prepared himself for this session, and I believe that if someone represents the Government, he must be well prepared, to know what it says in the bill, in order to know how and how to discuss with the MPs. We now have a representative of the government who reminded himself of what was written in the law, and should have been prepared to lead the controversy with the MPs. I can't say that everything in these bill proposals is bad, but there are a lot of things that are unsaid and I haven't heard a reasonable explanation from Mr. Vice President of the Government. Was he trying to hide something or did he just forget? For example, in amendments to the Law on Income Tax, there are certain tax reliefs, so for example, an employer who is employed indefinitely is a person who on the day of completion of a contract on employment under 30 years and who was admitted as an unemployed person at the National Service, etc. does not pay income tax. Then a new position is now being added – employers who have made it easier for a particular person to pay their taxes on earnings, on another legal basis, in accordance with the relevant regulation, cannot make the same person a tax relief from this article. You know, when this law was passed and these tax breaks were introduced, it was announced as something epochal, which will solve the problem of the unemployed in Serbia. But not only have you not solved the problem of the unemployed in Serbia, but for the three and a half years that this government is going on, the number of unemployed has increased. We still have that kind of tax relief. For example, people with disabilities, which is in accordance with the law governing the prevention of discrimination, are not paid taxes. Then, again, in the new position now being added, employers who used tax relief for a particular person to pay taxes, on the other hand, not to read everything from the beginning, cannot be exempt from taxes. In the end, of course, it is now becoming a popular name for us, the losers of the transition, that those who have turned 45 years of life and who are older than that, also, when it comes to their profits and taxes, are exempt from paying income taxes by the employer and this new attitude is also supposed to be a tax relief. Now, obviously, the goal is to, as far as possible, fill the gaps in the budget for one too big and too big administration and someone's come up with a big discovery that if they cancel these tax breaks, they'll better fill the budget. However, while Mr. Vice President is leading the controversy with the President of the Assembly and violates our Rules of Procedure, I can say that this is one big error, because by reducing employee subsidies and employment, the only thing you have as a result is the surplus of the unemployed. One salary or one part of the salary on which the tax is paid is not just one part of the inflow into the budget. You know, when someone's working, they'll be able to pay both gas and electricity, so we won't have to raise our loans. He'll be able to buy someone good for his family, and he'll be able to pay his taxes well. He'll probably consume both a favor and a service provider will also pay taxes and provide a salary for his employee and so on. That's what happens when someone seriously thinks about the budget. On the other hand, if this is about those famous employment subsidies, which were invented only for a certain number of privileged employers, then we are that such a provision stands in law. But unfortunately, we can't from Mr. Djelic's discussion that we know. The problem with the employment run by this government is that it behaves like geese in the fog. He doesn't have a serious employment strategy. If you think you're going to pay some two, three, five or ten thousand euros to a foreign company, to open up a job, and thus solve the problem of the unemployed in Serbia, then you're wrong. What do you have as a consequence? Firstly, the Assembly has never discussed this, and we do not know, as MPs who agree on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or adopt the budget law, we do not know what the effects of such subsidies are. We don't know at any time, during which time he can't fire persons if he's been granted a grant. We don't know what the purpose of such a subsidy is. You know, I'm absolutely sure Mr. Djelic can open a factory if the state gives him 10,000 euros per employee. I don't know if there are people in this room who wouldn't know how to do it. What's the problem? Why don't we have those real and essential subsidies? Not on something that's really fog, but on what's produced and on what's being exported. If anyone thinks Serbia will live better because it will export refrigerators or make refrigerators, then they are wrong. That's not gonna happen. So what's on the border, which is a domestic product, is to be subsidized, not some kind of mirage. Beneton came in, one of the first three firms in Italy, we pay him per employee. How honest and how honest this income tax law is, the great epochal discovery, you free farmers from the income tax, as honest as you are about it, is enough just to look at the next law. Here, I'll just read some of the provisions of what you're introducing as new taxes that the agricultural producer will eventually pay. In Article 33 for a solution required to issue a solution for the marketing of plant protection funds - 80,000 dinars. For a solution to the entry of plant and land-mining agents into the register of plant and land-mining products – 45 000 dinars. So, everyone will have to, even those who deal with direct retail, pay these taxes. Do you really think it pays for the person who sells, provides a service when it comes to plant protection and plant food? No, gentlemen, it will be paid by the gentleman who defiles the field, because they suffer so much from you, we can no longer call them peasants, who does something in this country and who gets very little or nothing from the state, and who takes his skin off his back. That's why you got the nickname when you were Minister of Finance. You've won from the people, I've just given the people's opinion. Let's see next. What does it look like when Bozidar Djelic cares about agriculture? For requests for the allocation of plant variety processor rights of 3,000 dinars; for the application for registration in the register of transferred processing rights of 2,200 dinars. All small amounts, but also one absurd. For the application for registration in the contract register and licence of 2,200 dinars, a requirement to issue a mandatory licence of 15,000 dinars, and then a request for an extension of the mandatory licence of 18,000 dinars. Then he better ask for a new license. Don't let it prolong the old one. You didn't know the law to write. You're chasing columns and numbers. So much for taking care of agriculture. There is much more to be read from this law on amendments to the Tax Act. I also see some new tariffs, such as, say, a tariff for importing non-hazardous waste for treatment. Will Serbia become a waste burner? Is that what you want? Then there is the following, for the authorisation of certain types of hazardous waste that can be imported as secondary raw materials. Or the next law, the law on amendments and the addition of the Waste Management Act. You know, Serbia is a lot of things that have been done in its history, both in that and in this close one. In addition, we are still an ecologically healthy country and does not deserve Serbia to be someone's garbage dump, because all countries are looking to solve this problem and not endanger their territories. Even these in the environment. We're already in charge, we're bringing it in to the little door. When it comes to agricultural producers, you now have these taxes and how much do you pay them back? You've had almost roadblocks now. No one asked how to solve the problem the right way. No one, just doesn't want to. What? You wrote subsidies for farmers not because of those small, few, poorest, who should invest most in one hectare, but rather wrote for the large ones, who bought the country cheaply in Serbia. Now you have a problem. Why don't you take advantage of these big ones, except they pick up subsidies at the price so they don't sow anything in the fields and rent them to others? Why don't you make subsidies, like a agricultural product? Is this subsidized, that one who deals with agricultural production has a bill to produce more, to produce better? Then you solved the problem that Mr. Lawman, the Minister of Agriculture, has, because he sees the problem, he just doesn't know how to solve it. It was the easiest thing to do, we'll promise one thing, we'll give the other and whoever lives will talk. Take one serious policy when it comes to the state, its economy and agriculture. You decide once what you want with the state, you make a strategy, and you stick to it, not running from the end of Serbia, without any plan, to show how you open a factory, there's a Beneton that I don't really have anything that you built a factory against. That's what I'm against. For agricultural producers, what they produce; for foreign companies, what they export. Make the ty plan, so it might be better in Serbia. So, we don't look up to neighbors, we don't look up to countries in the environment, we make up our own policies, we think we're inventing hot water, what others have long invented and tried and have succeeded in many things. No, we're going to learn from the beginning, because that's how someone solved it. Because of all this, because the laws are and are unscheduled, and more serious individual objections will be made when there are discussions in particular, the SNS parliamentary group will not vote in the voting day to amend and supplement the Income and Change Tax Act and supplement the Republic Administrative Tax Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56941	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yes, Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56942	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, for the SRS are unacceptable provisions of these four laws, and we will not vote for them, and the basic reason why we will not vote for these laws is especially about the first two laws, the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, these are the two laws that represent a partial solution to certain problems that we have in this area. On the other hand, it's just cosmetic changes that don't make any difference. In these two areas it is necessary to make one turn, bring a strategy, not only for this area, but for the total public finances, the national sustainability strategy of public finances, and on the basis of this national strategy to build on further corrections, to innovate legal regulations and to denigrate itself in a problem that regulates the matter of public income and expenditure, public finances and sustainability of the entire system. This system, as it is now set, is bad, it will bring enormous problems, and we have many in practice. One criticism of the SRS will start with republican administrative taxis. This proposal is unprofessional, unskilled, slightly and unserious. Now I'm going to say why. You set out in the definition of republican administrative taxis, you gave the right definition, that's a continental definition and you say this: "Republic administrative fees are charged in order to settle the costs incurred by the authorities in providing specific services at the request of interested persons". Very good definition. However, anything else that stems from the amendments and the addition of this law is very bad and unprofessional. Why unprofessional? Because you've mixed up the grandmothers and frogs, because you've installed certain stores that don't represent any work. You say "on request" in explaining certain tariff numbers. What does the request mean in the administrative procedure? Is that a legal act of the state authority? It's not. There is no specific store and no tax can be paid. What's the tax charge? It's a general theoretical definition of continental law. The acts of the state authority and the actions of the state authority. You're innocuously repeating everything that's inadmissible. Let's say, you in heading 40, for a driver's license application. Is there a store in there? There isn't. Is there an act of the state authority here? There isn't. Not at the request, but at the act. What's the act in administrative proceedings? It's a solution, it's a conclusion, it's a belief, etc. In order to make the right law, we must know the Law on General Administrative Procedure and apply it consistently. You're unmistakably repeating "on request." He can't "on request" just for the act of the state authority or the operation of the state authority. I'm telling you, the way you wrote this, this is nebulosis. I'm telling you that every decision of the municipality, the city in the Republic of Serbia, is better than this law. Why? Because people really know the matter, they didn't let the ministries deliver their proposal, and that proposal just goes in, puts it in the bill, and we have a bill and we push it out like that. You can't do that. The one who created this law had to comply with the provisions. Look, I mentioned heading 40. You say here - for a driver's license application. So, the request, one piece of paper written on it. That's where you listed the sum of 210 dinars. Next, any other heading, here, heading 94 - for the application for the appointment of a body for the assessment of compliance of 2,000 dinars, for the application. This has to be even, the request is a request. But when it comes to the act, it's about the state body's action, and then there's the difference. You're not dealing with matter, and it would be good to withdraw this law. Passing through, you're breaking the Constitution. In the tariff number, i.e. in Article 7, you say – for natural persons the tax is 1,070 dinars, and for legal persons 10,000 dinars, in interpretation. If you have properly defined the administrative fee as a concrete work of the state authority, then the interpretation of a certain regulation must be the same because both natural and legal persons are even before the law. What represents interpretation is the same shop in both the physical and the legal person. There can't be 1,070 here, and 10,000 dinars in the legal face. Now, there's one constitutional obligation that you don't apply in any law, not in any fiscal rule, which is that taxes and other fees paid by natural and legal persons are paid and settled in accordance with economic power. If we go from that constitutional principle, the constitutional rule according to the economic power of the legal person should, as a rule, be greater economic and financial forces than the natural person, but then you must make a graduation if it was a commitment. What does the face you're losing mean? Is that the same economic power as the one that has a million-euro profit? "Telecom" should then pay the most, you should put here that all those who have up to a million euros in profits will pay so much tax, those who have up to five million taxes, those who have over five million will have so on. But you didn't apply it in this law. What's the next problem? The Republic's administrative fees represent a kind of public revenue. What is the sufficientness of this one? That's only 1% of the budget. She's from a financial aspect interesting, 1% in the budget. But we have to apply the Constitution, we have to apply the rule. You didn't follow constitutional principles here, you didn't follow certain rules that bind you. You've mixed both grandmothers and frogs here at the same state organ store. The administrative fee will be somewhere, for example, at the Ministry of Interior, at the issue of a 370 driver's license, and in some other situations where the same shop is also issued and the same act of the state body, there will be several hundred dinars or several thousand dinars. That's inadmissible. From the point of view of the SRS, you must withdraw this law. This is a disgrace to Serbia, a shame to the justice system. Furthermore, when I said that we do not have adequate sustainability of income and expenditure financing and that we do not have that national strategy, we need to talk about the essence of the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia. What you have proposed in the next law, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income of Citizens, is also only a partial solution. This is a very serious material law. It penetrates the fiscal and financial sides of every citizen. It affects approximately 10% of the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and special attention must be paid, and you here haven't dedicated, 10, 12 members to this law, absolutely nothing. We have a lot of problems in practice. I'll mention here, even that came to President Tadic. A year and a half ago, Tadic said -- there are individuals in Serbia who are unseemly rich. The man's right, we've got unseemly rich, we've got tycoons who've been illegally enriched by various robberies, crime, etc. Now, what did the state do after that big sentence of our president? What are the more concrete moves of inspection services, tax administrations, the D.A., prosecutors, etc., that these rudely rich people are being brought down into normal rich people, who have settled their obligations neatly? No one. Ext Minister Diana Dragutinovic said after the 2008 elections for the finance minister -- the current tax system, in Serbia, is unfair because it protects the richest. That's great, that's a real definition. What did her ministry do, what did her services do, what did the state authorities do to correct this anomaly, to bring the financial and fiscal system to a reasonable extent, that those who wrongly came to the means to bring them into law? They say they protect the richest. No protection, no protection? What did the state do to get rid of those protected? Nothing. As far as this law is concerned, the law is just a cosmetic change. He's basically not gonna bring anything new. In practice, we have huge problems, especially problems in the reconciliation of obligations based on income tax. We have among the highest income tax rates. Taxes and contributions are at a level of 67%, and in Europe it is 30%, up to 35%, 36%, twice as much. The cries of the economy speak – take it off, help us, because we have a huge problem. We are in great indivisibility, in great debt, take down taxes and contributions, on the basis of taxes and contributions, we will hire new workers, preserve existing jobs, allow ourselves normal development and innovation, refurbishment of equipment and devices, etc. This government, which is said to be socially responsible, has done nothing about it. 20 days ago, you had a company parliament here. The first thing was profit tax, cut our taxes. One of the presidents of the assembly was the prime minister who listened to the cries of businessmen who sought tax cuts here, and regardless of all this, the government proposed this law, without any percentage of tax cuts and contributions. It's one irresponsible, irresponsible and socially irresponsible government because otherwise, it would do anything to help the economy. If we know how much the economy is in charge, it's about 31. 12. In 2010, over 20 billion euros will likely be 23.24 billion euros at the end of this year. What kind of business is that with such a duty? Is she a serious European economy? If we know what the responsibility of the citizens is, what will the income come from? From what? How do you charge the budget? Now I'm going to use a few figures to state what this type of tax collection means to you, or to the income tax of citizens. Somewhere in 2002, that was 45 billion dinars. You know how much that was? That was about 800m euros. 79 billion euros are planned for 2011. How much did we pick in the first five months? All 300 million euros. What can be expected in the coming period, given the great responsibility of the economy and citizens? Less and less payments. If we're aware of the facts, and that's what the IMF told you, he's actually exposed all the statistics you've given us here, and I don't know two, three thousand less, more employees, etc. They announced 400,000 workers. How much less revenue in the budget based on the state tax? Does anyone have an analysis? Has anyone been running an analysis? Mr. Djelic, you know how they do it in Europe, they get about 25% of their budget on that basis, we have 10%. It's just a plan. At the end of the year, it'll be 6.7%. How are you going to replace these revenues? What we need is for you to get some of the state's organs out of your sleeve when you need a certain interpretation of them. So you used the Fiscal Council in the bill of law, now it's already a law passed yesterday, a law on the financing of local self-government where they took the bill. What's going on with this law? Why don't we have an interpretation? It's the fiscal council's obligation. Here, I'm going to say here how they interpreted that they appear as a state body shyly, but they listed what is in the Budgetary System Act, which inaugurated that state body, what are their obligations. He says the independent and credible assessment of the basic policy measures proposed by the government in order to achieve the quantitative fiscal objectives set by the government is an assessment of the underlying fiscal risks and the likelihood that the government will meet its fiscal goals in the future. Furthermore, the obligation of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia is to prepare and deliver an assessment to the National Assembly on the fiscal effects of the draft laws contained in the assembly procedure. Do we have here an analysis of the Fiscal Council, their position and opinion regarding these two laws? We don't. Why don't we? It's a legal obligation. This is a game. This is not how little kids play. If this is a legal obligation within the meaning of the law on the financing of local self-government, then it is also an obligation under these two laws. People won't, they know matter well, and they won't answer here because what they would write would be disastrous. In such a situation you avoid etc. Mr. Djelic, withdraw these two laws and make the first national strategy. You can't work without a national strategy. The national strategy must offer all fiscal, financial, economic, economic aspects of tax collection and tax collection and sustainability of the financial system. Without that, we don't have Serbia, there's no state. We only have what you created in four years of your government -- the budget deficit is 4 billion euros. That's half of today's budget. For the next budget, it's going to be another billion and a half, and that's five and a half billion, and the question is whether or not we're going to have income and that's going to be about one budget. You have to think about it, you have to give the people an alternative. The Serbian Radical Party has been telling you for years to give you a strategy. No strategy, no analysis, and worst of all, we let the administration do whatever it wants. A law like this, I'm telling you, that he came to the Assembly in any municipality and that one councilman spoke as I was saying, as my colleagues here were saying, that worker would leave that job tomorrow. This law had to go through at least 50 hands, of which 25 lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56943	Thank you. We are moving to take part in the debate on the agenda of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5. I give my word to MP Dejan Mirovic, as Miroslav Markicevic is not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56944	Ladies and gentlemen, I must express my satisfaction that the Deputy Prime Minister is here again, because I hope he found out who wrote such laws yesterday, saying that there is supposed to be a European Community court. As you know, there is only the EU court in the Lisbon Treaty, and it is scandalous that we from the opposition must point out to you such mistakes in this European law that you so call upon. I'd go back to this law. We're seeing the same actors as yesterday. We see again that foreign bank chiefs are foreign banks, i.e. EU banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are about to be mentioned today by the European Investment Bank, not to mention the National Bank of Serbia, but rather the public company "Serbia" which, as well as the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, is in charge of banks from the EU that are present in the mono-political form in our country's territory. The conclusion from that is not strange, and that is that interest rates are found to be large and already in the light of the law we see that they are somewhere over 5% which you will admit is also scandalous, because the eurobor is somewhere around 1%, and the margin is 4.19%, which is now unacceptable as we said yesterday. For example, the Russian infrastructure loan was about 3%, and now you see what happens if, God forbid, the Eurobor as it came to 5 or 6% a few years ago. We'll have so-called European loans of 8 or 9%, maybe double digits, anything possible. It is a sum that is large for both the budget and our citizens who fill that budget, around 180m euros plus 30m euros, which means that the principal is about 210m euros, free of interest, at no cost, so we think that with one caution we should approach this ease of borrowing, thus facilitating the promised speed of entry into the EU, because it brings us only such harmful loans, an increase in unemployment, an increase in inflation and further the collapse of the political and economic system of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, in Article 1. We can see from the bill that there's Bank Inteza, Society General Bank, Hypo Alpe Adria Bank and Erste Bank, and there's the Commercial Bank. They would not be surprised to see that, in some future period, it is also being recapitalised, in fact, sold to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's not a secret. Our party colleague, Mr Ivan Ninic, has written several times about the sale of the " Commercial Bank" to so-called European friends and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, when you look at this Article 1 you will see that this is actually about a mirrored relationship, the situation in the financial market of the Republic of Serbia, which is that over 75% are held by EU banks and therefore there are such interest rates and interest rates in Europe. It's probably just Moldova on that sad negative list before we do. Also, the loan contract was concluded on 6 July 2011, the guarantee under Article 2 must be activated within a month and, of course, it will be paid from the budget according to Article 2. It is particularly unacceptable and it is another kind of evidence of what the financial market is currently in our country, Article 3. Article 3 states that all these banks, meaning EU banks, will "repayment of loans" quote "induce in dinars according to the currency value of the euro". What does that mean? It means that, in fact, there is a two-currency system in the Republic of Serbia. There's an official currency, it's a dinar and an off-the-book, it's a currency, it's a euro. Instead of dealing with a kind of state and economic responsibility and simply forging that official currency of the Republic of Serbia – a dinar, we allow foreign banks from the EU to effectively undermine trust in the dinar, encourage inflation and recognise the existence of a double currency system. Why is that dangerous? It is dangerous because, the euro is good and it is no secret for large exporters such as Germany and France, it may be applied to mini-states such as Montenegro or something, but for the Central European countries, such as Serbia, the Czech Republic, even Poland, the euro is devastating. The best example is Greece, where you saw what happened, what a crisis it was because there is a political project, and the political project is the euro. Because if there is no budget that supports the euro, or it is minimal as the EU budget, if there are no single taxes at European level, and they do not exist, then that currency is simply a kind of political will rather than economic circumstances. In this sense, the application of the euro, even in this practical vision, and God forbid Serbia enters that euro zone, is fatal to our exporters, for standard, for inflation, for foreign debt and for everything that countries like Greece and a middle-level country have experienced. Smart people in the EU who have experienced this so-called The paradise Serbia needs to enter is against the euro. For example, the governor of the Polish National Bank for the Financial Times on 25 May 2011 has declared that Poland will not accept the euro. Hungary rejected the euro pact in March 2011. Also, perhaps the most famous economist from the former Yugoslavia, Mr. Mensinger, who had long been governor of the Central Bank of Slovenia, said that the euro reminds him of the utopia of how brotherhood and unity were in the former SFRY. These are facts, it is something that should not be hidden from our public and therefore this member of the 3rd bill is harmful because, in fact, it introduces and supports a two-currency system in the Republic of Serbia. It is no secret that this leads to the collapse of our economy, it is even recognised by the new governor in an interview at NIN, seven days ago, where he says that even in one Turkey, which cannot be our role model, is forbidden to index credit in foreign currency. So, I don't see why we shouldn't show one kind of courage, one kind of, finally, one attitude worthy of the EU, if in anything else, even in that kind of ultimatum, that such infinite and unnecessarily borrowing must be done in euro. What will this Article 3 lead us to, as well as other loans indexed in euro? It will lead to an inflation that was around 14% from January to March, leading to a 1.4 billion-euro deficit, of which over 700m euros will surely go towards rich EU countries, as this has led to a phrase -- the EU has no alternative. So over 56% of foreign trade is done with the EU and, of course, to the European standard in the right sense of words, not this virtual debt of 22 billion euros in March this year. This is the bright future that awaits us, as is the case in Hungary, where the debt has already reached that figure of 100 billion euros. We see that even they are conscious and trying to run some independent policy in relation to the EU and the IMF. What happens in the meantime between January and March this year? The only ones who have income, who have had some leaps in activity, are those who operate on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia, which are EU banks. For example, this "Sosite General" bank, which is mentioned in the bill, made 25 million just out of interest and commissions in the three months, "Unicredit" which is also mentioned – 34m euros and "Estebanka" – 14m euros. While the people are growing more and more poor, while unemployment and external debt are growing, foreign banks from the EU are getting rich. It's a fact that no one can dispute. It's also the context of this law, it's the context of this borrowing and everything that's to come, or it's already happened in connection with the borrowing of these banks. Even the most Europian who won the prize, Mr. Dugalic, the secretary of the Association of Banks, admitted that interest in the Republic of Serbia is on average 12.43%, which is scandalous, and least said, interest in the Republic of Serbia, and greening. The only one who praises these fiscal conditions of borrowing is the IMF representative in the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Bogdan Lisowic, who visited the Chamber of Commerce in April this year and asked that public enterprises be sold, workers fired and, of course, best expressed himself on the situation in the banking sector. It is a very clear bill that is harmful, which is only useful for the banks of monopolies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia – for the Erste Bank, for the Sosite General Bank, for the Hipo Alpe Adria Banka. I don't see why there is no kind of political and economic will that exists even in EU countries, such as Hungary, and we see that there is a beginning of such a will in Greece, that these banks and those interest rates are on the way. I don't have the illusion that you're allowed to introduce taxes, extra taxes, so on. a transitional tax that would last for, say, three years and where it would be taxed precisely by those interest banks, which would certainly, in any way, help old citizens, pensioners, those who are educated, those who use health care. However, you obviously do not have the courage to take such a step. As long as such a policy is in the economic part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, we will not be better off. This phrase – the EU has no alternative, could be translated into concrete life and concrete economic conditions "loaning in European banks has no alternative". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56945	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56946	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I will begin at the end of your discussion. I'm interested in one thing - why is Albania important to Serbia? In what sense is this an important country for Serbia? As a neighbor, we respect that. But we don't know that the official state is run by such a policy. Is it because of the economic relations in the past that this $10m debt that you're going to charge, that we don't have anything against what you've managed to make an agreement, God forbid you can charge it, or maybe a government announcement, that we're going to share KIM with Albania? What makes Albania important for Serbia? Because of the surplus that you're making with her? Do you ever, now or in perspective, count on it to be like that? Albania does not matter to Serbia at all, but Serbia with Albania has problems objectively. It turns out that you are not competent to address these problems in an adequate way, because you are a supporter and you support a policy that is directly opposed to the interests of the Republic of Serbia in part of a territory bordering the state of Albania. As for this agreement with Albania, you say that you will charge $10 million of them, I'm interested in how this could be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget? For example, under the circumstances, I know that one factory, one company from Vlad's Han, has claims against Albania for $120,000. I'm interested in whether the Republic of Serbia, whether it's a South Morava company, a steel rope factory that's in the collapse, whether the debt of that company is going to enter into this $10m debt that you're going to charge, whether its obligations to that factory will, at the moment that the state's money comes to settle against the government's Han or the company, because trust me on Vladic's Han, where the average salaries per capita are 2,000 dinars. That $120,000 will really be of great importance. I'm interested in what agreement, or this memo, this should be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia eventually withdraw the money that will eventually be charged through this agreement? That's what interests me. I don't want to hang on to this agreement anymore, but honestly, as the man who lives here, I would like Serbia to settle its claims, or settle its claims with you, important Albania. What's also very important is that you've been sort of banalizing all of this. I think that's what the MPs told you. You say today, when the gas is not paid, it is no more. So, what is the practice in Serbia? When you don't pay for gas, "Serbigas" comes and buys you. He's laughing at you, I assume he knows where Agroliv is, where the Serbian glass factory in Paracino, MSK, is called from Kikinda, Azotara Pancevo. Now in all the genius, smart managerial, let's just say, the composition of "Serbiagas" all those factories had been looking up and booming. What you were talking about, Mr. Djelic, about and about this loan and "Srbigas" and its position and significance, may have been relevant, but today we could talk about the 55 million dollar guarantees related to loans to concrete programmes and projects, these are the money the state should guarantee and they would refer to direct investments in "Serbigas". The SRS has no intention of supporting the current liquidity guarantee of $210m, or the euro, dollars, does not matter, however. Teached by experience with the government, with a relationship to public enterprises, with events in public enterprises, with the manners that rule there, we really don't trust or know what that money is going to go into. Debt data, claims, or obligations and claims of "Srbigas" are different. They talk one thing, the other talk the other. It is said that "Srbigas" has claims worth about 500m euros, but also so many debts. Two hundred twenty million say they owe in the long term, everything else is short-term debt. Now it's a very interesting thing. Ninety per cent, says director Bajatovic, that they owe individuals, or that the natural persons 90 per cent of their obligations to "Serbiagas" are at peace. So, "Serbigas" has no essential problem with physical faces, "Srbigas" 10% in these debts are not negligible and we respect that, but the essential problem "Serbigas" doesn't make physical faces, real legal faces. Who's not working? Management, state and institution or something third. The municipalities can't buy, if the provinces owe them, they can't even buy the province like they bought Azotara, etc. What's the problem? What's the state buying? Social peace, part of a political cake. What's this about? Now, this management from that public company is going to run Azotara, etc., etc. These companies they bought. They bought them because they owed them. They were owed because they were incompetent in a financial sense to settle their obligations, so "Serbigas" who cramped in problems took them to advance them and put them into office. That's the kind of country we live in. Now we have to give a guarantee to a company like that for another 200 million. How could you not? We deeply believe that the vast majority of you who are not here tonight, and they will vote for such a law with these things disagree. But what we really have arguments to believe is, how which law enters the procedure so you recognize how which party is being prepared for the election. which in terms of position, in terms of financial preparation. Remember the local elections in some of the Vojvodina municipalities and the behaviour of "Serbiagas", specifically in Vrbas. More "Serbigas" vehicles were hired than private vehicles by all other parties, we can't support and finance them. They're bad manners. The SRS is against it, you may like it or not, but that's really how it is and we're not going to be involved in all of it. That you came here to demand support for 55 million dollars for four or five of these guarantees related to concrete investments, and then to talk about the energy stability of the system, each other in perspective, etc., to give you money for liquidity? To you? It's suicide, because you've shown yourself to be hosts and how you manage what the people indirectly trusted you in the elections, but we hope it ends up in the next election, that they'll be able to appreciate. How did you dispose of their will, their property, and our property? It's part of the story about this set of laws we're talking about. Mr. Buha is absolutely right. There is no local self-government that would define its communal, say procedures or taxes, as you wrote them here. Mr. Djelic can't, I'm sorry, it would be genius for him to answer us when the request is paid, and when the solution you get based on that request is paid. In fact or essentially, when you pay 2,000 for your request, you pay for your application, and then you pay another 9,000 when you get that request written down a solution or any act for which you submitted the request. You can do it, but if it's a system to fill the budget, if it's system modern, European as you like to say method to collect income, then we really shut down. Then this country shouldn't go to the 21st century, but in the 17th century, because you're talking about promotion, affirmation, standards, liquids of the developed world. What is the problem with the adoption of a serious law on republican administrative fees? What kind of example do you set for local self-government? Do you now understand why the municipal fees are eight million in companies or local self-government companies? Because there's no order in the state he can't have at the local level. Mr. Buha on behalf of the SRS, all the remarks he made in that context are really standing up and he's really right, I'm not going to get into cabs at all, because a thousand other tens of thousands for the same job. I suppose that of the 10,000 dinars, the job should be paid by the liquid and capable enterprises in Serbia that we talked about here yesterday, which we are pulling 200-300m euros to finance their liquidity. For the other, they can't take the money, or at the end of the day, someone gives the money. That's why we think we're living in a state of nonsense, the simple system is unthinkable. The question arises whether to really discuss and comment any more. Because of your approach to business and your relationship to the state. How can citizens experience a serious state? If you represent and promote in this way. Look at this tax first, changes and additions to the income tax of citizens. I can't make tax changes. The state can't do taxes this partially. This is a verse, we'll do this now, tomorrow we'll do that. He's patching a hole where the water appears instead of changing the barrels and then we're looking for answers to why what's happening to us is happening to us. Now imagine this. Mr Djelic said, as he said earlier, an incentive in agriculture, be careful he found these changes and the additions to be called partially stimulating in agriculture. You know what they wrote in the law? The income tax from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income has a small share in the structure of budget income. And now such revenues should represent, that is, the release from these revenues should be an incentive in agriculture. To be asked for ten years, what is the property in Serbia when it comes to agriculture? To be asked what the strategy is in this country when it comes to agriculture? What is the structure of the subsidy? Who are the subsidies given to? When are subsidies given? If you give an answer to someone normal and serious, if they weren't phrases and flossules, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to publicly apologize. We told him yesterday, you know why we're eating tomatoes from Turkey? Because these are our incentives in agriculture. That's why we're eating beans from Azerbaijan or Kazakhstan. That's why we're taking apples from Macedonia, and we're throwing apples, rotten apples out of Cack, or what's left of it to give to farmers. Because these are our incentives in agriculture. We believe that the state must make a cut and take the position that tax policy will lead. This is true that a small tax ejaculation will be made. But you know what it's called in my neighborhood - drop-by-drop is a source. So you have a VAT revenue drop, because you have a consumption drop. On the other hand, you have a drop in imports. You have inflation, which nominally might make more income than VAT, but it actually knocks them down and reduces them. You're not going to show it, because it's statistically appropriate for you to make an adventure with it and show growth. You have a problem collecting income with assets, because you have inefficient tax administrations at local level. Because people don't understand the importance of collecting that tax. They are waiting for the transfer funds Mladjan Dinkic promises them, and they know they will not live in fiction. You've got a downfall in the number of employees, so you've got a drop in this, so you've got a fall in that one. When it all comes together at the end of where the money goes into the budget. There's no money in the budget. Then there's a budget deficit of so many percent and our top vice president compares us to Britain. He says, you see, in Britain, the deficit is double, 6.8%, we have 4%. That's right. But Britain can afford it, and Serbia cannot afford what a local community does in Britain. But not because Serbia is not worth it, but because it has made the current government the way it is. In the end, I really hope that, in the next and the next elections with this policy, that the tax policy in this country will be dealt with by serious people. Make it all a serious approach. It will ensure the security of the fiscal system in this country through time, and we will be able to live a man's life in 21st century, not to live in fiction and mistletoe, which Mr. Vice President has been offering us along with his crew and his suite for the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56947	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56948	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to amending the Law on Income Tax, I will agree with my colleagues that it is really very small, particularly technical change. Although income tax is a very important segment of public income policy reflected in many other segments, particularly economic efficiency, labour market, competitiveness and a number of other things. If we start with the fact that the income tax of citizens participates in the structure of public incomes that are related to economic, social and other factors in one national economy, then we really need to establish and express regret that the government has missed another opportunity to make way and step towards the reforms of this segment. The reform of income tax will obviously be a long time, at least for this government, a topic that will be bypassed. First of all, speaking of this bill, we could say and talk about what the government failed to do in the absence of will and political courage. Based on only one example of this bill, Minister Djelic also spoke of it, and my colleague Stevanovic also spoke of it. In fact, Minister Djelic said that the state instead of income, it decided to give incentives to agriculture, and which is not true, which is kind of funny. In addition to these changes, the exemption of farmers, the Cadastrian income tax for 2012, as it was done from 2004 to 2011, is presented as a significant incentive to invest in agriculture. It's completely wrong. This will be confirmed by all agricultural producers, because this item in the total tax of one farmer is the smallest. In addition, the legislator himself acknowledges that the participation of this revenue in the overall budget income structure is very small, i.e. negligible. For example, an agricultural producer who owns about 30 ha on this item stands out only two, three thousand dinars, while an amount of compensation for irrigation and disposal goes to about 80% of total expenditure. That is why this cannot be called an incentive for agriculture, and we could not agree with the finding issued by Minister Djelic, arguing that this will be an incentive that will allow farmers to place quality products on the market. It takes a lot more than this, and you'll agree, saving two, three thousand dinars isn't enough. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, we have to realize that the level of certain taxis remains the same, unchanged, i.e. that it is drastically reflected on and such a low standard of citizens. We may have expected these changes to make the government take a step towards reducing them, especially because of the difficult economic situation in which almost all Serbian citizens live today. But that didn't happen. However, there is one exception relating to the subsequent entry into the birth certificates, which is released from the payment of taxis. The question arises, if it wasn't for Decade of Roma, would the government have decided on this step. First of all, the question arises why she decided first only now to take such a step. As we can see, this law has introduced a large number of taxis that have never existed before. Some taxes are justified for harmonising with other regulations. However, some have found themselves unjustly. Also, their discrepancies are evident, as they are proposed by different ministries. To remind you, the amount of tax should reflect the costs of the body to perform the tasks and actions relating to the tax liability. It's actually the cost of the state body to do the job, which isn't the case with these taxes. Although Minister Djelic said in his opening statement that now it will finally know what these fees are paid, we need to realize that only after this will it not be known what is paid, that the citizens will not know what taxes are paid, or what fees are covered by. The next law I'm going to talk about is the law on giving the RS guarantee in favour of the Bank of Intheza, Sosite Genal, Hypo Alpe Adria, Erste Bank, Commercial and Unicredit Bank under the responsibility of the "Serbian Gas". The law also confirms the fact that the economic situation in the country, which is the case, will go hand in hand to business banks, as long as the state and public enterprises behave irresponsiblely and enter extremely unfavourable credit arrangements. Giving guarantees for the total amount of credit with such credit conditions is indeed irresponsible. The interest rate, which represents a three-month Eurobor plus an interest margin of 4.19% annually, is large, however, the similar finding was made by Minister Djelic. It's really inexplicable to get into credit arrangements, almost as usual, always with the same banks that always offer unfavourable credit conditions. It is concluded that in this country almost everything is subordinated to banks, which is truly amazing. The question arises -- where is the economy, where in such an environment and in such rules that the Government itself has imposed, it itself took part in their creation, positioning the economy? This is one thing, first of all, we can say the arrogant behaviour of the state, the boastful behavior of the management of certain public enterprises based on short-term projections, with no analysis of the long-term effects of such actions. Instead of serious analysis and search for more favourable credit arrangements, if they cannot be avoided, and now I will not enter into why borrowing became the only option in this case, the impression is that the first credit arrangement to be offered is accepted, although it is not, but it simply comes to such an impression, in order to put out the fire, the business banks earn, and the taxpayers financed it all nicely. To repeat as yesterday, we suspect that the company, in this case, will be able to repay the loan. A more certain scenario is that it will activate the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia, and when proposing such laws, it should never be forgotten that it is guaranteed by budget means, to guarantee taxpayers' money. These are the reasons some, other reasons my colleagues have spoken of and will say, which is why the SRS will not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56949	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56950	The fact is, we've been hearing announcements about tax reform for years. We are also witnessing that, as amended and supplemented by tax laws, they arrive at parliament, it is clear that this waiting for tax reform in Serbia is practically turning into "waiting for Godo". Some of these more important taxes in Serbia are arranged in the way it is in the world or the EU for profit, VAT, excise duty, customs, etc., but one is not, and that is, in principle, the basic goal of any reform of the tax system, which is exactly the income tax of citizens. Now, what's being imposed as a key question is, is it certain that the government really has any intention of seriously dealing with the issue of taxation of citizens or not? What is a fact is that income tax is certainly an important fiscal form in Serbia's public income system, and that everything that has happened since 2001-2009, when new rules have been adopted in the area of corporate taxation, property tax, contributions to compulsory social security, excise duty, sales tax since 2005 and the famous VAT, that a change of that institutional framework has been made in the domain of the mentioned public incomes. However, even when a law on income tax was adopted, it is clear that no fundamental shift in the policy of taxation of income from natural persons has been made, but only the reaffirmation of that so-called. A mixed taxation system that is now applied in Serbia, and rarely in this form can be encountered in some modern tax systems. It is clear from this introductory note that income tax reform is actually the most important tax reform that Serbia faces in this coming period. Unlike some other tax forms, in taxing the income of citizens in the world, there is this expressed diversity and this is the consequence, above all, of a number of complex impacts of this tax form on both economic efficiency and on the labour market and on international competitiveness, before the distribution of incomes, etc. In doing so, it is extremely important to point out that this kind of real, real, economic and social effects of applying a certain form of taxation can naturally differ significantly from those forecasts that might provide some theory. That is why, especially for a country like Serbia, it is very important that, before making a decision on selecting a certain form of taxation of citizens' income in Serbia, the benefits and disadvantages of each and every one of them are carefully analysed, not only in that theoretical part, but in what is much more significant, which is in practical parts of the experiences of countries that have applied this form, etc. It is necessary to respect all the characteristics of the economy which, unfortunately, we have in Serbia, its potential development ambitions, the characteristics of the tax administration, the level of tax morality, etc. So there are numerous shortcomings in the existing model of taxation of citizens' income in Serbia. It is clear that all this points to the need for one of its fundamental reforms, but I repeat, reforms based primarily on the qualities of the economy, the characteristics of the tax administration, and on the other hand, are considered to be the most suitable solution for Serbia to include all these aspects in the development of such an essential and radical information system, and all this should result in the adoption of a simpler system of income tax for citizens, which would ultimately stimulate economic growth that is needed through work. The fact is that these are called legal changes in terms or in terms of such changes and the addition of laws simply introduce certain uncertainty, uncertainty in the economic environment, and hence it is really necessary to establish such an economically sustainable system of income tax for a longer period of time. Of course, the big problem is also the fact that one of the most important macroeconomic factors, although Prime Minister Cvetkovic told us a few days ago that we have achieved macroeconomic stability and that it will be even better next year, but certainly that the issue of that income tax represents a rate of employment, and the data, when it comes to Serbia, are devastating because the unemployment rate is at an extremely high level. The very information on the participation of income tax in Serbia's GDP, which is about 5% enough, speaks about the situation we are in. The answer to the question – what effects of tax reform could arise, can be given solely on the basis of one legal analysis, not on the basis of such cosmetic proposals on amendments and amendments to tax laws. What is essential is that such an analysis is primarily based on the real state of business in the country, not on displays or directives and practices of some other countries. In the end, I'm actually going back to the beginning, the question is whether this government has the strength and desire to essentially and radically inform the tax system. Unfortunately, I think it is clear to me and the largest number of Serbian citizens that the answer is denied, and the percentage that there will be a reform of the tax system is approximately the same percentage when Serbia enters the EU, so almost never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56951	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56952	How much time do I have? (President: 20 minutes. So, in three hours and twenty minutes, in a delayed transmission. Okay. In the beginning, I would like to give my instructions, since we only have five members of the government, six from the SRS. The question arises here - who is power and who is opposition? There's not even a representative of the government, like you're a shadow government, I don't know. So six SRS MPs is enough to take care of the entire coalition power of G 17 so I don't order any further, etc. It's good, no matter how many hours you watch, it'll be on YouTube, don't worry, people will watch this. Ours are recording and will show all this, to make it clear to people who are showing great interest, to worry about what is happening in Serbia, and even when it comes to a 200m-euro guarantee. You see, the SRS is persistent in implementing its ideology, so it's not hard for us to talk in this storm, to express our views, and those who are power, especially MPs who support their government, reformed, don't care. They consider it a vote as soon as it enters the agenda. What will be voted upon? It doesn't matter what's voted. It's important that it's European. So, we're in charge of the Europeans on every basis. I have to remind you, today is Vidovdan, the great academy is happening at this time, the organisation of the Serbian Orthodox Church in memory of what was 1389, and at 1800 hours we were present at an academy where we reminded citizens that it was 2001, imagine Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, 2001 on this day of the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic and delivered to The Hague tribunal. I hope you haven't forgotten who Slobodan Milosevic is. Okay. He was delivered and I now come to the conclusion, lucky for his being in 2001 if it were in 2010 or 2011, he would probably have been delivered by Ivica Dacic. There was a tectonic disorder. You see, everything that starts on Vidovday ends badly. We started the Youth Act this morning... (President: Will you please talk about the subject. Yes, it is, we have four laws. (President: And when it comes to tectonic disorders today, please do not contribute to your participation in the debate. ) You see, on Vidovday 1389, there was a twilight of civilization. The Serbians had to protect Western Europe. (President: You have the opportunity to talk about a subject that is on the agenda. We even get gas from that space, it has to do. Also in 2001, a tectonic disorder has been said – just to deliver this one and it will dawn on us all and now it's said the same – only to give a guarantee for 200 and some million to our dear "Serbiagas" because they have made great costs for election campaigns, do you remember Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, in the municipality of Vrbas, Ravna Selo etc. There was a job for people just to vote for the SPS, say which member? (President: Article 103) The Constitution gives you the right to speak, but not to be false, and you cannot be responsible for what you say as an apostle, but I do ask you not to make false statements. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we have recorded what the campaign was like. (President: Please do not be false. You can talk, or participate in a debate on a topic that is on the agenda without such wide-ranging procedures, but tends to send obviously political messages that are the most harmful to you and your political option. Don't worry about my political option. My political option is approaching the 90th percent of citizens' affection. Don't worry about us, I just have to give the structure why we have to give the guarantee to a public company of 200m euros and some million euros. Why? Why didn't this company settle its obligations? I'm trying to find the structure of the company's cost, so that's where the cars are, the employment of party personnel, promises, the implementation of election campaigns... (President: You need to know that not everyone does what you did in a position to do. When was I in a position to work? (President: Well, when you were minister, for example. That's when we were together. (President: Please don't have a dialogue with me. Please, we weren't together. ) Please, it was a very nice time when we were together in the coalition. (President: If you've done the way you're talking now, and I assume you're talking from your experience, then we haven't done the same thing. ) Then we fought against the NATO Pact, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, kept KIM in place of the Republic of Serbia, we were all patriots, remember, the people said in a referendum, not a foreign boot, it's a very nice time and I'm proud of that time. Why are you ashamed of that time? Let's see what kind of cost structure this company is, and why we have to do it today, because you see as it's said, there's no alternative, I knew there's no alternative when it comes to Europe, and now I've heard there's no alternative when it comes to guarantees, when it comes to this and what it is, I don't like living in an alternative society, basically democracy, there's an option of choice, and that means more alternatives. Is this the only way to get out of these problems? It's not. There are better ways. Why did you choose this way? I've been telling you 11 years to lead the state into debt slavery and the question is whose money is the founding capital of these banks. We have not yet received answers regarding Cyprus. Remember, ever since I was looking for an answer to the question, stockings on the head, and the missed building of the National Bank, you remember when some came to power in 2001, they were all after that coffin in Cyprus, and Velimir Ilic admitted here that he was interested, so that Bogavac from DB, so Batic, and Fija, so Mladjan Dinkic. Where's that money, please? First it was, we can immediately raise a billion and 700 million, and then bid on what exotic island is that money. I have to break into hidden cash flows and what's being financed by borrowing? The survival of power. Why it is necessary to protect such a power, why go to the task that needs to enable the survival of this coalition, this government and this suicide policy that is being said – we are going west, and there is an ambis in the West, and Serbia has always been wrong when it turned west. Every politician in this territory who believed the West was either killed or died. Please, it's one experience, it's not speculation, it's a painful experience that survives this people. In that pleasant time, Mrs. Djukic, to you and me, so when we were in the coalition, I was in charge of calculating the costs of gas. Now that you've cut me off, I'm not going to tell you what that calculation is, I'm going to explain to some local media what this big prank is looking at. Let's move on to this first law that's on the agenda, and as far as income tax is concerned, two epochal things happen here. The first epochal thing is that we have been told that since 2002 there is essentially no cadastral income in agricultural land. I gotta tell you, he really doesn't exist. Now someone can theoretically consider 10 ha of land when it's processed, when all these costs are recovered, so when the goods are sold, what is that income, but that's now imagination. Why? The imagination for one simple reason, while there were no tractors in Serbia, every square centimetre of agricultural land was processed. Since Tito's industrialization, tractors have entered, 50% of agricultural areas are not processed in Serbia, and that's a fact. We don't have cadastrian income on agricultural land. That category needs to be thrown out. Why? This government admits, who registers, lights the tractor and farmland, there are so many dinars and the state worships it for processing agricultural land. If there was a cadastrian income, the state would not make that kind of subsidy. Nothing epochal happened. Catastrian income on agricultural land does not exist, it is an impossible category or what economists would say is a loss of substance. When costs are much higher than income, the end of the story and there is nothing to be taxed and there is no need for someone to pay, especially when you look at what a demographic picture is like that in villages with several thousand ha of cadastrian surfaces we have two or three households and there are mostly old people who need help and who don't even have the opportunity to process the country, they can only look out the window as their property collapses and their souls hurt. You didn't do anything epochal. You have only practically allowed your policy for villages to be intensely empty and suburban settlements to spread and to get a new category of social cases. When in one country someone who has 10 hectares of agricultural land during the year handles all this, there is also livestock farming, etc., etc. And at the end of the year, he draws a line and sees it's down, then there's something wrong with the system in the state, not with the man who's working hard on his property. No wonder we also have poor households in Banat on quite a large area of land, which is reportedly being run as their own and giving them some cadastrian income. So the system is rotten. This is a system that provides work. This is a system that tells a man – don't work, you'll have minuses, come to a suburban settlement, be a social case, but it's important to have a cell phone, have a laptop, watch those crazy shows on these TVs after 24 hours, find your spiritual satisfaction. You don't have to look at kids, you don't have to look at family, you need to be an individual, in the most brutal Western sense of words. I'm struggling with the stained vessels not to beat it in Serbia, not to beat it in Orthodoxism, and that's my legitimate right. This type of individualism must not live in Serbia. This will not please those who enter discotheques, who participate in parades, will not like those who seek the EU. We are not predetermined as a people for such things. Then it turns out, when you make bananas on the oak, there will be no oak, no bananas, but it will dry. We're drying up like a people, just because of that wrong policy and the wrong spelling. I direct all my strengths in a different sense. Are we developing villages? We don't develop villages. It is important for us corridors, to have them beatings of coolants, EU trucks, so that their goods go and win some markets as soon as possible. As a representative of a national party, it is important for me to be satisfied with our citizen and to guarantee him the same rights in some village 50km from the town and this in the Belgrade circle of two. Is that possible? It is not possible in full capacity, but the state must not pass any member of any law from which this kind of social, economic, political and any other kind of discrimination would be seen. That's what I'm fighting with parliamentary means. Of course my words are not pleasant to your ears. That's what I'm doing on purpose. Why wouldn't I do that on purpose? I want to draw attention, I'm a little 80 percent of the popularity of the SRS. We want to shorten the popularity, as at the time of Pasic, when it was a minority one-sided assembly, where citizens voted in favour of SRS MPs. And today, in villages, there are duties of radical MPs, hospitals and schools. That's what we want him to come back and do everything we can to get him back. Another thing that happens in these amendments to the law on income tax, you see, you've been forced, you've been preparing for years, and now you're forced to statistically move from one form of inflation calculation, as a rise in prices to a small, consumer price index. Why? Because in the consumer price index, a little weight is being drawn and the small impact of those prices that are in the jurisdiction of the state is low. So what the state sets prices is a little bit affecting the consumer price index, so it's a fictional display of lower inflation than the one that really is. Excuse me, if this inflation pattern were applied in 2000, we wouldn't have that kind of inflation. So it's a math category. She's interesting. For who? It's interesting for those who owe banks because they have an obligation to make people take loans for apartments, leases, etc. Meanwhile, people lost their jobs and then they're interested in reducing their responsibility. Their responsibility would be much more visible in the category of growth prices to a little bit, but that's why it goes to consumer prices, reducing their responsibility, they're not affecting inflation growth, but they're affecting other factors. So those who pay off the apartment will have a held war, etc., but you haven't solved the problem, they lost their job in the meantime. The fact that you saved his war or frozen him on some level is that he's weak, he's lost his job, people don't have to survive, let alone settle their obligations. Belgrade is not a representative for all of Serbia's revenues. You continued in this law not to make a difference what incomes are, and what incomes are, so Article 10th and Article 1st don't talk to each other. Article 10 is to exempt from the tax on citizens' incomes of all that is excluded, which is written in Article 9. You didn't do that operation until the end. Why? Because you don't essentially distinguish between income and income. It's just that it got mixed up, it doesn't surprise me, since Mr. Djelic barely stabbed the laws that are on the agenda. He made 16 material mistakes explaining these four laws. Okay, that's not the first time it's about God. And when they bought it with the lamb, he got confused and took the charlain. You know that joke about God Djelic? Let's talk more about this income tax law. I don't understand this combination with volunteers. Why don't I get it? If the billing tax is rejected 40%, who does it go to? Is that a volunteer's income? According to your formulation – no. When he gets caught by these Gutinis at the Department of Revenue, I don't want to tell you what's going to turn out in the interpretation. Let's move on. As far as the Republic Administrative Tax Act is concerned, I must draw your attention that you are not the worst, nor have you invented a pothole. This indexing operation or the organ of determining the amount of administrative fees began in this building in 1993 and the idea creator of this concept and the progenitor was opposition MP Miroljub Labus. At that time, court fees for the federal court, for the federal state and federal administrative fees were on the agenda. He gave the idea to people about indexation. Then it froze in our legal system and you saw for yourself that revenues from the Republic's administrative taxis have become an impressive revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That can't happen. This must be symbolic and cover only the costs of recording, not what you write in the explanation – the cost of the service that the state provides to citizens. There's no state obligation to provide a service. The state is fulfilling its responsibilities, and it has to do its jobs. These fees must be lower in order to allow each individual to have access to state authorities in a cheap way, and you have made excise, VAT or do not know which other terrible tax revenue. Then you read abnormal data regarding the amount of those taxis. The fee is not a service fee, remember, but the state has no money, has solved the problem and how to provide money – rises to the sky in all order, excises, taxes, duties, etc. If someone starts criticizing, they say - you're against pensioners, you're against health care, you're against children, you're against education... (President: or against respect for time. I sincerely regret taking two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-28-0.u56953	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, and no one has a wish, and no one has used the right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, to take part in the debate, I conclude a principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law of the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa AD Belgrade, Societ General Serbia, Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka. Belgrade, Erste Banka. Novi Sad, Commercial Banka A.d., Belgrade and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d., Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Albania to the Republic of Serbia (ac. 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda). We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
