ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52424	Dear People's MPs, remembering the bombing victims that began today in 1999, I pray that we honor our victims with a moment of silence. Praise them. We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs, and in order to determine the exact number of MPs in the hall, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 91 MPs in the hall, i.e. working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the meetings of Parliamentarians Konstantin Samofalov, Gordana Komic, Vuk Dincic, Olena Papuga and Laslo Varga. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I give my word to Sinisha Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52425	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, are the Government of the Republic of Serbia taking steps to remove the submerged fleet in the area between Gerdapa 1 and Gerdapa 2 and from Gerdapa 2 to the Serb-Romanian-Bulgarian tri-border in Vienna? In 1944, a total Danube and Black Sea fleet of warships, transport ships and ships in the area of accumulation "Gerdap 2" was submerged in the part of the Danube from the hydropower plant to the three-way Serbia-Romania-Bulgaria. These submerged ships, which are assumed to be around 200, remained a major obstacle to uninterrupted regular navigation of the Danube and to a significant extent a major ecological obstacle to the development of flora and fauna of the Danube, especially migrant fish, due to the application of the mud and sand on them. The cargo in submerged ships is of unconfirmed origin, content and quality, and it is well known that there are also various types of mine-explosive materials and devices, which poses a latent threat to ships, cargo and people sailing alongside these facilities and downstream settlements. I would especially like to explain whether and when the waste water management strategy in the Republic of Serbia will end. If we consider that 35% of households in Serbia have an adequate wastewater network, and even 65% do not have any nets and purifiers, but waste water is poured directly into rivers and lakes, with about 44,000 tonnes of various toxic substances, or with about 2,200 tanks of pure chemical substances, and if this adds a huge amount of uncleaned waste water that is released directly from various economic activities into repipients, or water streams, then mandatory treatment of all waste water is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52426	National MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52427	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic and the Serbian Government obviously lost the map of the road to Serbia's accession to the European Union, which he confirmed several days ago and Mr Deger. But what is more important is whether Mr. Cvetkovic has a map of the path Serbia needs to move or thinks this country should go as unled projects? We heard from the Prime Minister last week a redefined new government programme, that it would be new energy and new people. As for the program, it has already begun to be realized, or continues to destroy everything that exists. As for new energy, in the last ten days, we have received only one legal proposal from a reconstructed government that has entered the congregation procedure. We haven't had a chance to see new people in the National Assembly. On Tuesday, after the election of the new government, I had the intention to ask the latest finance minister, who for the second time carried out the task, certain questions, but instead came the latest Deputy Prime Minister, who has made four oaths before the National Assembly. I remind you that the National Assembly has not adopted the final budget account for neither the past, nor last year, not in a number of years. My first question for Mr. Cvetkovic, the new finance minister, is – what happens to those companies that don't hand over the final bill, or who don't pay the value added tax? The reconstructed government has 18 ministries. You have passed the Ministry Act which you have proposed to merge certain resolutions; we have had the opportunity to see that one ministry has been torn to two parts, so that mining has gone into spatial planning and energy into infrastructure. That's why my question to the Prime Minister is: when are they going to hand over budget rebalances for 2011 in the assembly procedure? Regardless of some interpretations that there is no need to discuss new rebalancing, at least let's see how certain problems will be solved and that new quality will be created and the funds of Serbian citizens saved. Are the problems in education solved by the way the salaries of educators will be reduced, or will they not be paid at all, will our children get a new quality by not going to school again? Do the problems in the judiciary be solved this way – hundreds of judges continue to receive certain funds due to major failures in judicial reform? We've got huge health problems, we've got huge problems paying off pensions. Will pensioners, whose pension has been increased by two percent over the past two years, be able to pay their bills to this state? The budget system law has been broken more than once, and will be broken again. I ask the question, then, why have we passed the fiscal responsibility provisions in the Budgetary System Act? Democratic Party of Serbia MPs look forward to a new finance minister in a quality two-day debate, in which we will also have the opportunity to ask him a lot of questions, explaining that Serbia will be brought out of the crisis, how each family will be able to make its "map of the road" by the end of this year. I look forward to the response and the close encounter with the Prime Minister and the new finance minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52428	National MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52429	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group today, and in the coming weeks, will ask some questions concerning the current problems concerning the functioning of Serbia's Army and the Ministry of Defence. Today I would not take the opportunity to mention names in my first address on this issue, but given the answers that should come from the Ministry of Defense, in the coming period I will be forced to address that problem as well. Namely, what's this about? It is about modernising funds, especially in the RV and PSC system, and the first example is the modernisation of the “cub” rocket system. The first phase of modernization of these systems has long expired, and over 200 million dinars have long been paid for modernising these systems. Who's the contractor? The SDPR, which was required at a certain stage of work, during the modernisation of the "cub" rocket system, to hire subcontractors. What's actually going on here? It's impossible to use for 30 years, for which there are no spare parts, which are currently in a state of failure, to modernise. Is it possible for the Ministry of Defence to allow the use of this kind of money to modernise technically incorrect assets? Is it possible that the composition of the SDPR team in this case is made up of retired Serbian Army elders who otherwise did not deal with this problem in their careers? It's mostly about people who are involved in moral issues and other areas, not rocket techniques in their families. The Ministry of Defence's responsibility, unfortunately, is required by the elders of the units in which these systems are located. That and the first question – why are huge financial resources being spent on PSC missile systems whose modernisation is practically impossible? The second issue of the defence minister, the state auditor, and since it is a major financial asset and prime minister, the minister (let's call it the prime minister of finance), is: why are certain assets being refurbished, which is why they exist, but in some other institutions? As an example, I will give you the size of the 150,000 dinars, as paid in 2008. The Faculty of Electronics in Nis, not some remonting institution that has been trained and legally designed for this kind of repair, to introduce an automatic tracking system, i.e. shooting. Otherwise, this system, which was introduced into the weapons, is not functional, or incorrectly introduced and is required by the Faculty of Electronics in Nis to remove any malfunctions by the end of April 2011. Is it possible to pre-payment funds for the tracking system of the weapon-indicating shootings and that the system enters the units at the start functionally incorrectly? The third example I'm going to make today: why were the funds spent in 2010, in September, Bulgaria, worth $500,000, for the fuel for the planes that were supposed to carry target targets? To state that this laadry was attended by journalists and that regarding this topic, given that time has expired, I will launch a further initiative at the next session on Members' issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52430	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf a group of students from Bora who are following our session today from the Grand Hall Gallery of the House of the National Assembly. Present are: Svetlana Dinić, Jovanka Dinić, Marina Miladanovic, Dobrica Đurić, Milorad Radović, Milan Ivanovic, Igor Petrovic, Milos Andrejić, Zvonko Damjanović and Mirko Đurić. Let's give them a round of applause. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by representatives of the proposings Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, and Dragan Atanasov, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports, and Ana Kosovac, Head of Legal Affairs and International Co-operation. We'll move on to the sports bill. Let me let you know that we will, in accordance with the article. Paragraphs 87 and 90 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, working even after 6:00 p.m., until the end of today's agenda. We won't be working tomorrow. At all, we will try not to work on Mondays and Fridays on the tides by respecting the Rules of Procedure and to have these days committees and all our other activities fill the contents of our work. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposition of the Law on SPORTA (individuality) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Dobrislav Prelic, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Dimitriović, Nikola Lazić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zavrković, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladnović, Boraža Pović, Žaljavić, Miljavić, Miljavić Pokrković, Gojko Radović, Mićo Rogović, Vuce Točeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šolić, Dragan Šor Šoršić, Dragan Šor Šor Šor Šormović, Dragan Šor, Drag, Dragan Šormović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Dragažović, Dragažović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag. You have received a report from the Committee on Youth and Sports and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before the move to search the Bill's proposal in particular, I remind you that, by written means, amendments were withdrawn by MPs Miljan Rangelovic to Article 118, paragraphs 1 and 2, which he submitted on 24 February 2011 and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia to members 14, 75 and 184, who submitted on 26 February 2011. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Flea, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at the very beginning I must say that a number of amendments by the Serbian Radical Party, namely three, have been accepted. We believe that more amendments could have been accepted, that you had a basis for that, however, frankly, we are not surprised. Your arguments are, as we had the opportunity to see in the previous period, mostly that you're trying to convince us that it's covered by some other laws. What we fear is, above all, that after the adoption of any law, the Ministry practically rules the sublaws and regulations. The very fact that in your explanation of my amendment, you said that it is understood that organisations include associations and associations speak enough about the fact that, let's say, later on, you can simply delete associations and associations. I think this proposal would have decidedly covered associations and associations, because there would be no way and opportunity to avoid the law later on. We had a debate in principle, and I think today we're going to try to accept a number of amendments to the SRS, especially those amendments that are meaningful, for which you would certainly have an excuse to accept them. I am convinced that during the debate, when we get a little more detailed into the debate, we will come across your understanding and that you will accept a number of amendments. We'll discuss all these amendments in more detail later, but I think you should have accepted this amendment at the very beginning. Because we fear what follows, and these are sublegal acts and regulations, which are brought not only by the Ministry of Sports and Youth, but by all the ministries. We had the opportunity to make sure that when the law was passed, regulations that the ministry had the right to do so much wrong that citizens were simply powerless and a new burden fell on their backs. Now in the beginning so much. I hope that we will come across your understanding and that today you will have the opportunity to look at a slightly more serious amendment and that you will accept a certain number of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52432	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52433	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where we asked for the words "recreative sport" to be added after the word "school sport" and to delete the rest of the text. In principle, I mentioned that it is very important to determine and edit the area of school sport, but also recreational sport. These are also large for the population, for Serbian citizens extremely important areas. Our children because of the so-called. The sitting form of life and because of the strong sitting behind computers and schools have an increasing number of malformations, research says, chest, spine, feet. Our population is getting older, sicker. Today I read in the media that about every resident, every citizen of Serbia spends 22 boxes of medicine annually. That's why recreational sports is something we have to deal with in this law. Here I have the results of a research done by Batut for the Ministry of Health, though, where it has been observed that the growing participation of the adult population in leisure sports compared to 2000 is increasing. It is very important data and the minister knows very well how many of these places people will be engaged in recreational sports, how many coaches who work professionally, less professionally or otherwise. That's why we think it's very important to enter recreational sports here after school sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52434	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52435	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, first of all, I must begin by congratulating you on the courage to write such a law. This is one tough, Sizif's job. You did achieve form, but you didn't achieve the essence. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia regretted that you did not accept our amendments, and we have submitted more than 40 amendments and we wanted to correct this text of the law. You've accepted only two amendments, and it's technical. We said you didn't hit the point, that this law wasn't good, that it was extremely bulky. He's got 193 members. Thus, when we look at countries in the environment and countries in the EU, we will see that they have solved this problem, i.e. that their legislation on this issue speaks of their laws having between 30 and 100 members. This is a conglomerate of bad ideas, galatias, and we from the Democratic Party of Serbia simply called it "the law against sports", because nothing good will do Serbian athletes. Secondly, we wanted to improve the text of the law with these amendments, to improve this law. When it comes to this amendment to Article 1, which speaks of recreational sport, I must remind you that countries in the environment and countries which are in the EU sport based on this particular recreational sport, in order to strengthen their nation's health. In Finland, over 90% of people are engaged in recreational sports; in Portugal, which is in the EU, the least people are engaged in sports, 40%, while in our country, between 10% and 20% of people are engaged in recreational sports. So that we don't have an Olympics like Beijing in 2008, where we favored only top-notch sports, and amateur and recreational sports were neglecting, and they're the base of that top-notch sport, these amendments we wanted to change that text of the law. You have accepted only these two amendments; we are sorry, but we hope that during this discussion we will convince you and that you will accept another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52436	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52437	I'd, if I could, the time of an authorised representative? Thank you. Gentlemen of Parliament, gentlemen of the government, a respected representativeship, in this part where we talk about details, and after the adoption of amendments from several sides here from the Assembly, or from several parliamentary clubs, you have not accepted several key proposals. So we stayed in the same positions; you will most likely defend your concept, although in the Assembly there are several MPs who have spent several decades in various clubs and sports organisations, from the lowest to the highest levels. Of course, with all due respect to the other colleagues who worked on this bill. We differ conceptually. Our objections are that there is too much influence in sports organisations by the state, that there is not a properly designed part about privatisation, that the sponsorship system is not designed at all, that school sport is not well defined, especially high school and college. You are introducing new functions and new jobs without indicating how much and by which systematization it will be implemented and where the money for their funding will come from, since sport is a system that spends a lot of money and returns little, etc. Of course, I remind you that in a political and economic situation like this, all of this is impossible and suddenly done. The state budget is in constant deficit. The state and population are underprivileged to incredible proportions. You don't have a clear political vision. You're wandering, and we're walking along some pathways that lead us to the European Union, and that interpretation turned into a mirage after ten years. Governments are surrounded by party interests, crime and corruption, and this little economy and the state that's left, and you just want everything all of a sudden. I'm telling you one more time, it's too big a hit on clubs, and it's mostly small clubs, small sports, which are essentially the most massive, but also the poorest. But sport is the most fundamental aspect of life's activities that contribute to psychophysical development and human health, so that's why it doesn't need to be choked, it needs to be nurtured. I, I'm not going to say startled, but I've been very upset by the attitude I've heard from a few people from the Ministry of Sports and Youth – that there is a hyperproduction of clubs in Serbia, I've really been caught, so you've decided to stop it. I don't understand. Why not create such conditions that clubs fight for the quality of each other, so who better to stay on the market and who has no quality – a key in the lock? What is it you want to accomplish, that there's a hyperproduction of work, accumulating, crime, juvenile delinquency, drug abuse? All of this is prevented primarily through the widest and most acceptable form of sport. Children, youngsters, the elderly are introduced into the system of organization of life, work, learning. Their physical condition is increasing, they're more content, they're free of stress, they're healthier. It's a very good and social character; people hang out and talk about the positive sides of life, not where they're gonna cheat and beat up. Not everyone can go to the first league right now, especially if they don't want to play sports professionally. This aspect, who's going to cheat, beat, and kill, is tied to big clubs and big sports, where big money's spinning. In the principle debate, you could hear, which is also known to the general public, from the presentation of counterpart Filip Stojanovic, how much only football officials have lost their head over the past 20 years. It was not in small clubs and especially small sports that bring world recognitions in all adult categories. Most athletes go through these small clubs to get big clubs, big scores and bigger pairs, but in small clubs they form as positive people and learn the most basic techniques and skills from their sport, which they later develop through life. Influence, of course negative, this law will feel exactly small clubs of small sports, but great hearts and great sports results. Big clubs won't feel such a big blow, but they don't feel comfortable either. Of course, the widest layers will be affected most – trainers, recreationals, trainers. They were the ones you were supposed to protect and create system conditions for as much of a sport as possible. We will once again try to convince you to let go of the noose, through these over two hundred amendments, in a debate in particular. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted 43 amendments, you accepted only two. The other MP clubs didn't go much better either. The accepted amendments are mostly cosmetic nature, just to cover our eyes, but it won't be good for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52438	MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52439	Thank you. Madam President-in-Office, honourable minister, respected representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club. First of all, I would like to express my personal satisfaction and satisfaction with the MPs' club SPS - JS because representatives of the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Serbia have accepted a number of amendments to the SPS - JS parliamentary club, which are not technical, but, I would say, essential. Simply, you and I have made it very clear that we have one common goal, which is to get as high-quality system law as possible, which will go into step with time and that will in a certain way improve sports in Serbia. I don't want to talk about numbers, but of some 16 amendments the government has accepted, six amendments are to the SPS-JS parliamentary club. This, of course, does not say that the amendments to other parliamentary clubs are not good quality and that they should not be discussed today and try to find some compromise in the general interest of all of us and sports in Serbia. I want to use my time and the accent to put first of all on a few things, to apostrophe of the amendments that you have accepted, the content of the amendments you have accepted and to try to give suggestions that you have understanding and to come together to a solution for amendments that are not acceptable at the moment for representatives of the Ministry and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, when it comes to that part of the law that has been presented in public as the most controversial issue, it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have recognised the justification of amendments submitted by the SPS-JS parliamentary club to Article 148(1) and Article 174(2). The adoption of amendments to Article 148(1) prevented any possibility that the Government act would declare objects of national importance to be dislocated or destroyed for the construction of certain high commercial objects, or their purposes changed in any other way. We believe that this is how we managed to preserve extremely significant sports values, which was actually the goal of the moment we submitted this amendment. In the second amendment, to Article 174, paragraph 2, we have made it impossible for an interested customer as a third entity in the privatisation process to initiate the privatisation process. In this way, as we spoke in the debate in principle, we prevented, in our opinion, any possibility of possible manipulation that could occur during this time period from the moment of the privatisation to the privatisation itself. It is true that it was the practice of the Privatisation Agency when it comes to the privatisation process itself. It is true that this practice has had very bad experiences. We want to avoid these experiences when it comes to sports, and I think we have succeeded in accepting this amendment. I think we should take advantage of today's debate and talk and try to find a solution to a few more key issues. First of all, the question arises as to how to create a legal obligation that the funds generated from the sale of the entity's capital cannot, but must be directed into the budget fund for the financing of sport, for the construction of sport infrastructure and for the construction of sports facilities. We do not want to leave any alternative, because we believe that anything else could in some way harm the development of sports in Serbia. We have submitted an amendment that is not acceptable and we want to find a solution that is acceptable and that is in the general interest. One more thing when it comes to the privatisation process – we, having first and foremost in mind the importance of this process, the importance, the complexity, the problem, suggested that the provisions of Articles 184 to 192, and as regards the privatisation process... We proposed that this part of the law be applied from 1 January 2013. No amendment accepted. We talked about it at the Youth and Sports Committee session. You said that accepting this amendment would eventually raise questions as to whether privatisation is optional or mandatory and that the question is what about those sports entities, what about those sports clubs that would want to enter the privatisation process immediately after the adoption of this legislative proposal. We can accept this argument in part, but after 15 years we adopt an extremely important system law, which includes one important procedure, I mean first and foremost the privatisation process and the provisions of Articles 174 to 192, and I think we need one period of adjustment, recording and other preparatory actions that are necessary to get to the very privatisation process. I repeat what I said during the debate in principle. Ownership of stadiums of big football clubs, sports facilities, at this point, I think, is a central topic in public. We believe that it is important, but this law needs to answer another important question, which is system-based funding of sports, and when it comes to professional clubs and when it comes to basic sports, about younger categories; then, support for clubs that represent a base for top sports, but also support for the construction of sports facilities and sports infrastructures, which we have already talked about. These are important issues for us at this point, and that is why we believe that the general interest in sports, as part of the legal proposal, is hopefully the law, is part that deserves much more attention. This part should actually provide answers to two key questions: the first is what is considered a general interest in the field of sport; the second is how the selection of the programme is being financed. I also want to express my satisfaction that you have accepted an amendment that defines very precisely and clearly the role and importance of the Serbian Sports Federation in this law. He was brought into an unfair and incorrect position by the original bill of law. I hope so, and I'm convinced it's a coincidence. I think it was completely corrected by the amendment to Article 104 that was accepted. When it comes to general interest in the field of sport, we believe that certain attention should be paid to the association "Sport for All" Serbia, as an association that has been through its programmes for many years has generated a general interest in the field of sport, an association that counts 59 members and more than 20 alliances of the national level. The role and importance of this association have been tried to define the amendment that we have submitted to Article 114. For us, it is also an important question, what was the SRS colleague talking about earlier, how it is possible to create a legal basis for the participation of clubs in European club competitions, i.e. they are financed from the republican or regional budget. It happens that certain units of local self-government have such clubs, that local self-government units do not have the ability to finance, and you will admit that their participation, their competition of general interest in sports in Serbia. So this law should clearly state what public interest is in sport and how to preserve that public interest. In the end, I would like to express once again the satisfaction that amendments that are fundamentally important have been accepted. I think that during today's debate we have plenty of time to talk eventually about some other proposed solutions or to find some new solutions to ultimately get a quality system law, which will regulate this extremely important area of sport in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52440	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52441	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, MP group Forward Serbia, SNS, has tried to fix this law on Article 3 and to help writers of this law define certain concepts in the field of sport, given that this amendment to Article 3 has been done rather ignorantly and is contrary to many parts of sport theory, especially when it comes to the definitions of certain areas in sport. Here you have listed the definitions of almost all areas, but there are no rights, by which the law bears a name, which is the definition of sport. Instead, you have taken over, or convinced, a copy of, but rather wrongly, the definition adopted by the 1992 European Charter of Sports, which represents the basic element, the basic law, based on everything that concerns sports in the EU. Of course, it was also written on the basis of the European Charter of Sports for All, which was defined in 1975, but was adopted in the EU next year, 1976. So this charter, the European Charter of Sports, does not know the concept of sports activity. She uses the term sport, which is appropriate to this law. Writers of this proposal simply made a mistake and put in place sport activities, and they introduced also mental activity. Well, it is understood that any sporting activity involves mind activity, because there is no physical activity in sport that is not followed by mind activity. I suppose you wanted to introduce chess with this, that's because of chess, but I must inform you, Madam Minister, that scientists, both European and worldly, who are engaged in sports theory do not recognise chess as sport. Chess is a thought game, an intellectual game. It's not in the chess of physical activity, except for the movement of the right hand when the figures move. So, very clearly, with all the respect for chess as highly minded intellectual games, but only thought games, not sports, respecting chess as a thought game, I must warn you that you've gone into something that doesn't belong to sports, because there's no chess at the Olympics, no chess at the University, no chess at the Mediterranean Games, no chess in the World Sports Games. So it's that something that's not a sport you can't treat like this in the Sport Law proposal, and that's still in the definition of sports activity, or in the definition of sports, which doesn't stand. Because the European Sports Charter does not know chess as a sport and there are no mental activities in their definition of sport, which you had to adhere to. In addition, there are many scientific definitions about sport, which are more or less different, but none involve such mind activities, such as chess, in the domain of sport. Here you have tried to define a sports event, however very inaccurate and very short. The sport event is the widest concept, which includes sports competitions and sports events. So, the events are the activities in the domain of sports that do not include competition, but are about promoting a sport, awarding recognitions to the best athlete, welcome, let's say, our best athletes, etc. So it's a sports event. A sports event must include such manifestations. That's why it would be good if you'd defined the sports performance in a more complete way. In point 16, it is much more appropriate to use the term “top result” rather than, as you have quite clumsyly defined it, “achieving predetermined results”. That's the top score. So, the ultimate result is what all athletes are trying to do, whether it's about winning a competition or over a record that's already been set. In that definition, you had to put that sports competition as a competition of athletes, the result of which is achieved during the current process. That's what all the scientists in sports theory agree with. You wrote here that the organizer of the sports contest is the face. I think it's very clumsy, everyone will take it as a physical face. No, a face can be, but it doesn't have to be, the organizer of a big competition. In our practice and in European and world practice are usually the organizers of major sports competitions, so sports associations, Olympic committees, sports clubs, etc. But you wrote "faces" here, which is not good. One more thing. You had to put in this definition that competitions must be held under legal conditions and according to sports rules, pre-determined. That definition had to contain these two very important things. You wrote here about sports rules, but the rules of sport are practically understood, and the national sport rules of a border alliance must be in line with international rules of the international sports union. We just wanted to help you with that and to supplement your definition. We suggested erasing point 18) because the term "professional sports competition" does not appear in our practice. Furthermore, there has been a major failure to define "sport for all". "Sport for All" is not a recreational sport, it is more than that. "Sport for All" contains in itself and competitions and "sport for All" is part of the Olympic movement, and recreational sport is something else entirely. We have at us the Sports for All Association, which brings together 59 organizations and alliances, such as the Mountain Alliance, the Oriental Alliance, etc., but it is not the same. So, you took a clumsy, not you, the writers of this bill took one clumsy solution and defined "sport for all" as a recreational sport. It's not like that. Besides, you wrote an incomplete definition here. It is necessary to complement the definition of recreational sport with words: entertainment, entertainment, relaxation and mental rest, not only: “improvement of physical and spiritual condition”, because recreation includes both entertainment and entertainment, and relaxation and mental rest. So I think this definition is completely wrong on your part. We suggested erasing attitude 3 because it cannot be expected that civil servants working at the Ministry of Sports define what a sport is and what is not a sport, whether it is a sport activity or a sport, or not. I think the opinion of the Sports Union of Serbia, the Olympic Committee, should have been obtained. (Snezana Samardzic Markovic, from the place: It is accepted. It's accepted. Great! So much better, because I really can't let the ministry officials, some of whom don't really understand sports, define the concept of sports. In any case, as you have seen, our MP group Forward Serbia - SNS tried to help you with this amendment to correct the definition of sports concepts, if it was necessary to define them, because looking at this Article 3 it turns out that this is not the law, but rather like some academic work, some scientific work on the field of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52442	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52443	Thank you. Madam Chairman, MPs, ministers, representatives of the government, that the law on sports is not good and that there is no understanding among certain political groups of the ruling majority talks and a large number of amendments they have submitted. Some are accepted, some are not accepted. Although, looking at the amendments, they're correct, they're good and they're changing the text of the law. When it comes to Article 3, which my esteemed colleague spoke of, the legislator embarked on a theoretical definition of certain concepts, as if, as he said, it were an academic debate. Confusion was created precisely because of the takeover of certain concepts from the European Sports Charter, which is the act on which the sport policy of certain countries is based. I suppose you've also thought about the previous law, which has simplified these terms and which you could simply rewrite from the previous law, about the new bill, because they have also reached the people; they will represent regulations, not something abstract. Otherwise, it would be good to remind the citizens of Serbia that Serbia already has the Sport Act, which was brought in back in 1996. This law did not see the light of the day for one simple reason – no certain sublegal acts were adopted. But we didn't get the answer, Madam Minister, to the question – who wrote this law? Since the task force has been torn apart for a year, our question is who is the legislator, since the password is your political option – expertise in front of politics. So I guess that's what the experts wrote. But there is a different echo in the public; namely, experts say they left the task force. Now we're found and we don't really know who the writer of this law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52444	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52445	Col. Stevanović submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) to change point 1) and reads: "Sport activities are all forms of physical and mental activity which, through organised participation, aim to express or improve physical readiness, create social relations and achieve results in competitions of all levels." The amendment point 1) is better than the proposed one and is free of excess words such as "unorganised forms of sport and sports competitions". The prediction of spiritual well - being, although general definition, encroachs in some areas beyond sport, which could also result in possible excitement that would result in religious issues. I'm saying this because a lot of people can understand this definition the way it suits them. For example, many martial arts promote a certain spirituality of the climate from which they originate, not spirituality on the ground they have come. If the word "or" is kept, it is questioned whether it is necessary to separate social values and achieve sports results. Of course, the objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52446	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52447	Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, based on Article 161. I have submitted an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on behalf of the SRS on the proposal for a law on sports. In Article 3(3), the word “good enough” is added after the word “rest and” after the word “work” is deleted. Recreative sport is a form of sport that includes volunteering for sports activities for rest and recreation, improving health or improving your own results, in all segments of the population. Recreation itself implies volunteering, however, what happens if an employer, for his well-known reasons, orders all employees to engage in recreation? If one of the workers can't accept for health reasons the kind of recreation he planned or appointed by the employer, does that mean that this employee has to go to recreation so that the employer won't fire him for breaching and violating discipline? In the follow-up to this article and this point for which the amendment was proposed, the word “rest” was used, thus achieving a contradiction of recreation. You probably meant the category of active and passive physical vacation, which, on the other hand, should be regulated by sublegal acts as professional programs. Recreation of wider masses, which are properly handled, aims to improve physical condition and health. Isn't walking one kind of recreation? But it's not a vacation, it's an active exercise of physical effort, which, in a medical sense, has a very high meaning. I think this amendment of mine should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52448	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52449	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the category of explanations what all athletes are in Article 3 from point 6) to point 12, explain what kind of athlete everything can be: amateur athlete, athlete only, professional athlete, athlete, top athlete, perspective, talented athlete and categorized athlete. In all the explanations and suggestions of this Article 3, it states in all points, i.e. point 9) that a athlete is an amateur athlete and a professional athlete who participates in a sports competition as a member of a sports organisation or independently, in accordance with sports rules. So, Madam Minister, there is also an independent athlete who can be a recreational, who can, without counting on financial gain, be on his own, recreationally engaged in any sport and he can't put himself in any of these categories at points 6) to 12. Let's just say, a man because of his physical appearance wants to practice at the gym, play football, fish, but it doesn't forbid him, if he's good at it, to participate in some activities. So I proposed a new category of athletes, which is – a recreational athlete, who has no obligation to be a member of any sports society, who does some things recreationally, because of his own health, without financial compensation, and who has the right to participate in some sports competition, in some sporting activity, although he is not a member of any club individually, or perhaps wants to prove himself to be the best coach himself. That is why I have proposed this category in point 5), to add 5a), where it is said that "recreative athlete is the person involved in sports activities for rest and recreation and health promotion". It could therefore participate on its own and comply with point 9 of the proposed law. A recreational athlete himself is not defined here as a category, although he lists faces, from underage to minors, and their obligations – when they are professional, when they are not, when they are amateur, when they are not, when they are superior, and when they are not. He does not belong to any of these categories as a recreational athlete, but he does not need to reduce the importance and ability to compete in any kind of sports event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52450	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52451	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted an amendment to Article 3. Point 6) is amended and reads: “Sportsman is a person engaged in sports activities with the desire to introduce knowledge and skills into competitive form.” What were we gonna say to this? Not all participants in the club practice system are automatically and athletes. Many practitioners, meaning recreational athletes, train in clubs that also have competition teams, train with top-notch competitors, and they themselves have no desire to compete. So, they train with top athletes for their souls, they're good training or sparring partners, they even have better predispositions and results, but they just don't want to compete. You say your formulation is more accurate, and in voting day you decide by conscience that looks better to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52452	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 3 paragraph 1 point 8 be deleted because we consider that the role of athlete as a competitor is completely illogical. Absolute illogicality refers to a sportsman who, with the very idea of the word "compete" defines himself as something that is absolutely understood. He's in sports to compete. Obviously, in that part, we didn't come across an understanding. First of all, I wanted to say something when it comes to school sports, Madam Minister. We didn't have that much time in the debate in principle. You here, in some way, presented everything the Ministry of Sports has done at Serbia's level, where it has particularly thrown itself into work in school sports, how much hala you have built, etc. I have to tell you, you haven't fulfilled many promises. Even certain municipalities have been deceived in some way, since your colleagues, above all by party, have promised to invest especially in school sport. By the way, I'm from the Ojai municipality. You remember last year there was an election. We have prepared projects for five municipalities and schools when it comes to open fields and playgrounds. About six million were promised, if I'm not mistaken. We've done documentation from our modest means, but something like that hasn't been done. I don't think it's right, first of all, and you should pay attention to that, because we have other investments, I can't say any shortcuts, but certainly, if you promise anything, you should keep it, not do what you've done so far. By the way, we said in the principle debate, as far as this law is concerned, that the general form is satisfied, and it certainly is not, that it is even intruding into other laws, into other areas. Even many questions that had their sublaw form are regulated. Let me just look at one more thing. Earlier in the amendment of Dragan Stevanovic, which was explained by Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, when it comes to spiritual prosperity, you had the opportunity to see one political party from the ruling majority who was so explicitly opposed, but literally against religious communities, against introducing religion into schools. How do you think they support this law? The Serbian Radical Party would suggest something else, something we think should be a priority, and you as sports minister can influence that, which is to introduce patriotism from the first grade of primary school, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52454	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Sladjan Mijaljević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52455	On Article 3. 11) counterpart Acimovic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has submitted an amendment to delete the word "youth-year". The explanation is – a promising, or talented athlete is another athlete who failed during his sports internship to achieve more significant sports results in the minor age, but was able to do so with, say, 18 or 19 years old. Some people manage to exploit their talent earlier, some later, so that we should not bind perspective, or talent for years, but to start achieving more significant sports results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52456	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52457	Madam Minister, you refused the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS Group. However, it is more precise than what you put in point 15. I don't know if you're attending sports events, whether, like some of us, you were once an active participant in sports or a sport in youth, or ever, but it's clear that sports performances and events must be held if more athletes participate, so this word "more" is absolutely unnecessary to you. We thought it was more accurate. In addition, colleagues Mr. Mijaljević and Prelic spoke, the law itself is quite inaccurate, large and essentially failed to define the area of sport in the way many other countries have done better, although the law has been prepared for three years. What I want to ask you now, to take advantage of the opportunity when we talk about this amendment, is in connection with the case of celebrated Serbian athletes, such as Mr. Zarko Olarevic, Mr. Tatovic, Mr. Sava Paunovic, Kurčubic and many others who were members of the amateur team of Yugoslavia then won the medal at the European Championship. In fact, they, Madam Minister, have repeatedly addressed you with intent, and that is their right to come from their sporting activity, particularly Mr. Olarevic, to issue them a certificate based on the law they were looking for, based on obtaining pensions. Mr. Sava Paunovic got that confirmation. I just want to say that the SRS thinks that a category of national pensions should not exist, but if it still exists, on any basis, and if others have received them through political selection, why, then, to the persistent insistence of Mr. Olarevic, who is a celebrated athlete, who also played in French "Marsei", in Kragujeva "Workic", in "Partizan", as well as other people I have listed, are deprived of their rights? I once again appeal to you, so that they will not break the threshold of your ministry, that you may do so. The law is the law, it must be respected for all. As for the very term "sport events", I must tell you, Madam Minister, that I, like every Serbian patriot and all Serbian radicals, express great satisfaction over the fact that this NATO European path of Serbia does not come to support people who come to the stands and attend sports events. You could see it last night, you know, the voice of the people and the voice of fans who send clear messages, starting with scandalning the celebrated General Ratko Mladic, that they have against the evil UN tribunal, that they have already sung for these nine years many songs about the Serbian hero, our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and that each such event begins and ends in words – Kosovo is the heart of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52458	I give my word to the Minister. Here you are, Mrs Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52459	Thank you, Madam President. The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is once again my pleasure to be with you; I would like to, before answering any questions that have been asked, to thank all those who have tabled amendments to the law on sports. We in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as with colleagues in the government, have seriously considered these amendments, realizing that their deep intention is to contribute to the improvement of this text, and some of these amendments, as you have heard, we have been pleased to appreciate. First, let me just mention that we have not respected this amendment to delete the remainder of Article 1, which the DSS Group has requested, because then we would be able to erase a lot of good things that are done in sport and that the state recognises. That's why we didn't accept that amendment. As far as recreational sports are concerned, I can immediately tell you that he is very represented in our daily work and that he is represented in the Strategy. Please pay attention to the Strategy. Also, under the Action Plan, there are a lot of activities that are meant for recreational sport, which the state is funding. I will tell you that the Sports for All Association, which is one of the elements of recreational sport, not the only one, Mr. Pelevic, has raised the budget by 112%, while we have raised the 200% budget for recreational sports this year. It's one way for the state to help recreationals. I just took the opportunity to let you know if you weren't informed. I would still take the opportunity to respond to MP Sladjan Myaljević, who said the ministry might have accepted some amendments to cloud the eyes of the MPs. Since we respect MPs, and especially Mr. Myaljević, we know him very well, we do not think that he is a person whose eyes can be stained, nor do we think that the National Assembly is someone whose eyes can be stained, nor is that the purpose of the Ministry's existence, and I assure you that we have just defended the concept of the law, not by wanting, nor by considering that it is possible for anyone to have eyes. What's still an opportunity to say, Mr. Pelevic correctly said that we have a definition of mental activity within the general definition of sport. You also said correctly that we used the definition of sport from the European Sport Charter. Then I would ask the MPs to decide whether they want us to have more precise definitions or not to have definitions in the law. In fact, sometimes you say that we define too many things and that it's scientific work. We introduced these definitions in order to have opportunities for the state to recognize, and therefore finance, numerous elements in sport. Of course, on the other hand, we can't define anything. I don't understand exactly what the MPs want. I failed, despite all the efforts, to figure out whether you want us to define more and more precisely, or less. Anyway, we've defined ourselves to define what we've defined. I'm very sorry that you don't consider chess valuable enough to put it into the sport law or consider it a sport activity. If we did not recognize some of the mind activities in the law, we would not be able to finance some alliances and sports and, unfortunately, we would not have the right to receive national recognitions or such size as Gligorić, Alisa Maric or any other. If that's what your political option advocates, there will be opportunities to say it elsewhere or in the elections, but I certainly wouldn't give up chess and chess definitions under the law on sports, or other mental activities. To tell Mr. Prelic more, it's true that I made a promise in the Ojacs, I remember very well, because I was on several occasions visiting there and talking to athletes. What I promised was the lighting of the terrain. What I promised, that's what I did. That little field lighting in Ojac cost about two million and three hundred thousand dinars, if I remember correctly, and we can check again. Anyway, I know it's been accomplished and the cost has been so great. It is also an opportunity to say that I am very glad that you, the honourable MPs and Vice President Mrs Jovanovic, are standing up for this group of football players you mentioned. Of course I'm aware, I've often seen them and I'm sorry that I'm not in a position to give them national recognitions, but since the regulation is such a thing, they recognize better results, or they have had a parallel competition at one point... UEFA and FIFA, at that moment, when they had an amateur competition, organized a professional competition and we had to respect that kind of professional competition. I think, on the other hand, according to the winners of national recognitions, which there are over 500, it's very unfair to say that these are politically received national recognitions. I can only assure you that they're not and that I'll call you, if you want, to look at all the results we've given these confessions. And I don't know which, for example, Franjo Mihalic, who has been an ace for years, the political option belongs to, and on what political criteria is he rewarded? Anyway, I'm sorry you don't support the idea of national recognitions, which the SRS doesn't think is a good idea. We believe that it is, and therefore in law we have ensured that our athletes have these national recognitions as long as the law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52460	First Miss Natasa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52461	Mrs. Samardzic, I didn't talk about individuals at all, nor did I apostrophe the sport. We could open a topic about that. I said it was a category, so we're against it, where any kind of manipulation is possible. It's not just about you. You know, since the world and the century, ever since the age of socialist governance, communism, and even later, these "non-communist" in power since 2000, everything has been in all segments of social life. Of course, top athletes and those people who have come true and contributed to the promotion of the state, and the former state, we certainly respect it, but we haven't responded specifically when it comes to these people. I understand you talked to them. I asked you a very specific question. When it is and when you have assessed, through these criteria, that they do not belong to that group like those others who have done so, just give me a concrete answer why you did not give Žarko Olarevic confirmation of why he was rejected? So Mr. Sava Paunovic received confirmation of why he was rejected, and you now said you had these criteria. Just tell me so you know. We talked, these people came a few years ago, we received them from the Serbian Radical Party. It's such a simple answer, one confirmation, so let him keep on seeking and exercising his rights based on what he can accomplish and what he feels is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52462	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52463	In an individual case, I'll check how it's possible that one party in that entire group is notified, and the other one isn't, so I'll let the public know, for both of you and them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52464	Replica, MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52465	Your Honor, Madam Minister, you mentioned me three times, so I am obliged to give three answers. I think you misread me three times. When I was saying that Article 3 is more like scientific work than a member of the law, I thought and now I think, I repeat, that it was not necessary to define all concepts in sport without defining the basic concept, which is the concept of sport. If you have already done so, then it would be good to give the correct definitions, i.e. to convey the correct definition, which has been brought by the European Sports Charter. You've adapted it to the needs, not your own, but the team who wrote this. It's really inappropriate, because sports activity as a concept is not known anywhere in the world, it's only about sports. Second of all, you said I was worth less chess and that chess was worth less. It's just a matter of work! I highly appreciate chess as a thought and intellectual game. I play chess, my son plays chess, and it's an intellectual game I really appreciate, but I don't think it's fair for chess players to get national pensions without, say, winning four gold medals last year. Tell yourself if it's fair or not. It's not fair, you know. To repeat, chess is not a sport, because chess is not at the Olympic Games, it is not at the university, it is not at the Mediterranean Games and is not in any European document on sport. Shahu is a place in this law, but like a thought game. Serbia's sports alliance defines chess as a thought game, as an intellectual game, but not as a sport. As for the third question, it hurt a little, because I've been a sport for 35 years, and I've never been involved in politics and sports. Make sure I never do that. No one who knows me, and a lot of sports people know me, has ever heard me mix politics and sports.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52466	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Excuse me, first Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52467	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I wanted to take a call and I was thinking whether we should discuss it at all, but I'm glad you've accepted some of our amendments, we hope this law will improve. I see that many sports clubs are not satisfied, reporting with very many objections compared to the new sport law. I've spent my whole life in that sport and as a sports worker, I've had a series of inconveniences about it, because I've seen a lot of sports politicize and that's why I can't achieve some top-notch results. That's why I wanted to ask you to separate the politics from the sport as much as you can, maybe lately it does, but there's a series of evidence in that sense. I remember only when the club that I once ran became the champion of the world in a Kaiak; it was the main attraction, for the first time we became champions of the world and on the oar was the sign of New Serbia. There were all these shows at B92 about how they were supposed to be competitors to bear the political party sign and win and become world champions. That was more important than winning gold for the first time in Serbia's history. Now I'm interested... Of course, we broke up the club so that we wouldn't make problems for these competitors and let them go to other clubs, to continue to compete, to become Europe's champions, etc. We didn't mean to bother you. You know very well, when I became president of the Athletic Union of Serbia, I experienced violent attacks. I resigned immediately so I wouldn't bother there, because we were having a political discussion. It was said - there's Ilic, there's no money. I said, "Goodbye," and I resigned on the same day so I wouldn't disturb the Athletic Union of Serbia, so they wouldn't be deprived of any funds. I hope I did a good job by staying out of your way. Please, we have reached an agreement, as regards the KK "fighter" in Cačka, to provide millions of euros worth of funds, because the hall was torn down, the roof was on the downfall. And the city, and the various donors and the ministries, all finished the job, did the hall and changed the roof and did everything. It's left for the Ministry to finish the seats and inside some little things, change the baskets that are completely cracked, and they're over 30 years old. If you can't, you should tell us, we'll manage somehow, but for two or three years nothing's been done. I'd ask you to finish it so that the competition can be regular, that someone doesn't get hurt, because, I repeat, the construction of the baskets is over 30 years old, and that's the oldest guy. When we've done everything, we'll do it. The basket manufacturer is from Cačka, he works for all of Serbia. If I have to, the man said, "I'll make a donation." But it was an obligation by the ministry that was reached at that board meeting with the representatives of your ministry and it was agreed to do so. Please finish this as soon as possible, because someone in the hall will get hurt, I repeat, in a hall in which, without any dinar of the Ministry, more than one million euros have been invested and complete business as far as construction works are concerned, construction, etc. Please, when you're coming, visit the basketball club to see that there are those things you promised, which you should finish. It's not a number, but it's extremely important, because it's an agreement that was made and agreed. Even the head of your party spoke to the club representatives and agreed that it would be over very soon, as early as last year. It's not over, I'd really ask you to do it and not be politicized. Keep working as hard as you can, separate the politics from the sport. It doesn't make sense. Let the contestants do their job, sports workers, and you help as much as you can, we will be glad to have the best results and more young people at sports sites, and less in some other places that are not for youth or envisaged. I'd be happy to have better results. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52468	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52469	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Just for a little while, let me first congratulate you on all the efforts that were made around that hall and confirm that the meeting was. The deal was to file the paperwork, because, of course, without documentation, the Ministry can't do anything. But since it's not enough to make a deal, it's gotta be in the competition, I urge you to encourage the people of the club to participate in the competition. Look at the site mos.gov.rs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52470	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to article 3. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52471	Congratulations to the ministry on efforts to do this law, I congratulate you for forgetting today the European Union, since usually, when they come, ministers say – European standard, European standard. You don't scare us anymore with these European standards, since Putin seems to have finished his work for centuries. Let's go back to whether we should define or not. I really didn't get a Ph.D. on a blow to the head in the field of sports, so I couldn't tell you so professionally, theoretically. But, you know, it's not a small thing, with your head to hit a man, it's a great effort. I don't think it's European for this definition to say "whose goal each participant is seeking, or winning an opponent". You have to throw out this "winning opponent", it seems unEuropean to me. A joke aside, this is the definition of something called a sports competition. There's probably this competition in something called physical culture, which we're referring to preschool, school, high school education, and that physical culture is what this country needs most. Then we have something called recreational sport, but there's some sports competition, where it's not that – kill everything and go back alone, but simply to exhume a man, to hang out for a while, etc. Then we've got this amateur sport, we've got that professional sport, and we've got what's a team, where everyone's heart plays when our sports team plays. In spite of this law, Mrs Samardzic, we will beat these in the European Union and basketball, we will improve ourselves in handball, I promise you, so that they have reason not to love us, because they can no longer endure these frustrations, since, you know, this small country, our small nation, in every major sports club abroad, has some of our players and also the first violin there. What to do, we're talented, so our mother gave birth to us, God made us so. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you've seen this group of MPs, there are very important sports figures here. Dragan Zivkov, his nickname is Jaya. Why do you think his nickname is Jaya? He's playing football like Jajic. Dobrislav Prelic, nicknamed Doc, played for Vojvodina, first league. Don't tell you about Filip Stojanovic, Mrs Samardzic. He's the head of the National Assembly football team; he's proof of tolerance where there's no politics, but quality only, I have to tell you. Philip commended some. Where's Lapcevic? He's a good football player, you know. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in charge of what - a calm hand, a clear eye. My smallness was a shooter, once a second and a third in Yugoslavia, so you who speak and call on the line, take care of what you do. Let's get some jokes in here, of course, it's time to have a little fun. So, what should we regulate with this law? That our children get as much physical education as possible at school, develop hearts, lungs, socialize, and develop this mentality of perseverance, perseverance, perseverance, and strengthen that sports spirit. What do you call it, in a healthy body, a healthy spirit. One who has been engaged in some sport since first grade amateurs, competitions, this one no longer goes to the streets, this one no longer stares at the Internet, falls into depressed conditions, and by nature things come into a situation to socialize and socialize, which we need, because today people are alienated, individuals are 100%. In that sense, the state should also provide sports facilities for that kind of physical culture. That's something, I must say, the most important thing in that sport. There should be room for recreational sports, for amateur sports, for professionally, where the state just needs to settle some rules so that crime and other things don't happen. We have to say, and sports skills are on the market today. Of course, the country has a special responsibility to prevent doping and some abuses as to the body and health of athletes. Probably our country is making some efforts through its alliances. In the end, we have what's our highlight, they're top athletes, our team, where the state and all those who care about that patriotic charge should help. You saw how thrilled the people are when Djokovic wins a tournament. After two days, people look forward to it. Yeah, he's a man and he's earned and he needs to make money, he's the best. You see, and there's some prestige, there's absolutely some prestige. Of course, some hate it when someone succeeds, so they drive him out of Kragujevac, so some make some other coalitions, etc. But it's a situation with the best, in Serbia the best go bad, because we have this mentality of how to reach it, to lower it, but when it comes to certification that it is the best, from the world championship, from the European championship, from abroad, then everyone accepts that it is the best. One more thing to tell you, Mrs. Samardzic, I'm not really myself, I think even if you put a lot of money into sports, to reduce our results, because while something is struggling to achieve some results, it forces itself to show superhuman efforts and achieve some result, and when it comes to Serbia some prosperity, then these hyenas come to pick up. These are the ones who organize buffets in "Arena", so they count for three days, so how much they're going to take, so there's no VAT, there's no juice, there's no juice, there's no juice for this; in stadiums to fill, take, there's little they're doing there, the prime minister's league, etc. However, order a team there abroad – and according to the Prime Minister's rules we will beat them and beat them. That's for sure. You know how stubborn and persistent we are, and the desire of young people to succeed. Just to make a real definition of where the state begins, where it ends and, of course, to prevent what seems to me to be present in this top-notch sport, which is corruption and crime. It's so obvious, and it needs to be cut in some way. I know it fits everyone in that system, and brewers, and marketing agencies, and administrations, and also some fans and some athletes, some TVs. If it's possible to seduce some order, it would be even more successful. But it should be possible for our children's potential through sport to come to terms, that the state and society don't bother them to have what they have, that they get from God in the right way to verify themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52472	National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52473	Madam Chairman, it is not my nature to respond to such low blows, low attacks. It's beneath me as a man and as a sports worker, but, the public works, I just want to explain that I didn't doctor on what the predecessor said, but I'm proud to say that I was a doctorate in sports management, that that's how I circled my professional, sports and scientific work, and that I teach three sides of the University of Sport Management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52474	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Dobrislav Prelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted an amendment to add the word "sportsmen" in Article 3rd point 18) after the word "competition" and to delete the rest of the text. For what? Because the SRS believes that this is how it limits the participation of talented and prospective athletes. We don't see any reason why you refused this amendment when you insist on working with young athletes. We think that in this way, young people and our young athletes would be prevented from participating in top sports competitions in some way. There are many young talented athletes who have scholarship agreements; why would the bill say that there is a condition for participation in professional sports competitions to compete exclusively professional athletes? We think you should think about this one more time and accept this amendment, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52476	Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52477	I will briefly, Madam Minister, just to inform you – as Mr Krasic said a little while in the presentation, not only is this sports spirit and recreational sport among the MPs, it may be difficult for the selector, Mr Stojanovic, to tell you, but last year, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia team participated in an international competition organised by our friends and brothers in the Russian Federation, our assembly team won the silver medal. It's nice that the gold belonged to our Russian friends. How difficult it is to come at all, not only here, but in every city, you probably follow it as a minister, to spread it, and to the possibility that people, from the smallest child to the older people, will deal with recreational sports through the example of the town of Kragujevac. Last year, during last year's World Cup football, you're probably familiar with the basics of the Forest County "Mundial in Small". That was a really nice event. On this occasion, and also because of the fact that they came to our meeting when our assembly team was going to Moscow, I have to thank the people of the Football Federation of Serbia, because if they weren't there, we didn't have any other doors to knock on, nor would our assembly representatives go to uniforms with our national tricolor. Also, these young people, who had uniforms absolutely identical to the uniforms of all the teams that participated in the World Cup, would not have had those uniforms. I have to announce another event that will also take place in Kragujevac to promote sport for children and youth for the entire forest district, which is the League of Children of that age, which follows, as regards what Mr Krasic was talking about earlier, when it comes to our celebrated Novak Djokovic, just to be more precise, although you know the whole public – so-called. The Serbian Progressive Party has been contributing to "Femili Sport", our Noleta company, giving up on that complex worth more than fourteenm euros and which was to be built by Kragujevac, by its hickey and campaign organised against Novak Djokovic and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52478	Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52479	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would just like to thank the MP briefly for mentioning these events, especially for the children in Kragujevac who somehow imitated Mundial. The Youth and Sports Ministry has financially supported this very action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52480	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 3rd point 19): after the word "eat", the words "physically or legally" are added, and after the words "management and" the words "lead it or some other way" are deleted. The Serbian Radical Party believes that sports events can be organised by individuals, but also by sports associations, organisations and associations. That is why it is necessary to define it in this law. It cannot be left to the sports organizer to decide for himself how it will be implemented, given the emergence of increasingly frequent riots at sports events, which are caused by both viewers and competitors and other participants in sports events. Minister, one thing is certain, that this law is good we would not have one law with 196 members and more than 200 amendments were proposed to it. In order for such a bad law to be implemented, you, under number one, ministers, states, this authority must be dealt with with with with crime and corruption in sport. Number one in crime and sports corruption is football. We all know that well, and you're in charge of keeping your mouth shut. You must tell the citizens of Serbia why UEFA President Michel Platini came here. He didn't come because of the hooligans, you know it well, and you have to tell the public, he came here because of it, and he said it like this – all the championships "The Jelen Super League" in the last three years have been set up for you. The worst part is, the derbys are set up for you. It wasn't the clubs, it was the judge's organization. The judge's organization is in charge of this. The Alliance also participated. In the principle debate, when I was talking about this, I mentioned some names to you; I was the vice president of a football club for five months, I saw what was going on, and I quit. I'm at your disposal for all of what I'm telling you. This is what happened to us. The Super League deer competition started, football. The first match "Jagodina" - "Vojvodina", Judge Bosko Jovanetic. He was on trial, and after the game, he was suspended. Is what I'm saying true? Yes, it is. He's suspended, four or five games don't judge, and he'll judge again. I don't know how suspended he is, but this gentleman's name is mentioned at Michelle Platini's, it's written down, because he was involved in setting up the derby in our championship. I told you in the principle debate that you need to clear up with the people who run the Football Federation. Who's the president? Mr. Karadzic. I'm telling you this one more time. Who's the vice president? Dragan Djordjevic. He is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party. All the dirty stuff works for President Karadzic. They and Bogoljub Stepanovic, president of the judicial organisation, are setting up matches. Do you know, in the road, as the judge travels to one game, he is called the judge five times because Bogoljub Stepanovic orders him to judge. Why am I telling you this? Here's an example of what's going on at the bar. I'm from the town of Krushevac. Can you believe that in Kruševec from the city administration he was paid 14 months for a polo club? Between 20,000 and 80,000 were paid monthly by the city administration. That polo club doesn't exist. You well know, in order to have a polo club you must have a field, horses for that sport and everything else. We have another example in Krushevec. What happened? We've got a 100-ton club called Progress. It doesn't exist. He was formed by the Association of Citizens. That's where one political party is financed. They don't have any contestants, they never went to the competition, the same goes from twenty to eighty thousand dinars a month. At the annual level, this amount for this stone club was a little less than 900,000 dinars. We've got another stone club, which has competitors, and it's competing, and everything's fine. Do you see how... In the principle debate, I said politics got involved in sports, that under the number one Red Star basketball club was an example of how a club was destroyed, as politicians did. I would ask you, Madam Minister, to pay attention to this. I'm deliberately speaking these names, and I want you and I in the U.S.S. to help you put an end to those football players. I told you, this man, Bogoljub Stepanovic, is 75 years old, is the president of this judicial organisation, the board of 40 years. Well, has anyone wondered who he is, what he's doing, what's going on at our sports concerts? Well, it's all about you, and this whole game mess thing, because it's a game set up, which is who's gonna fall out of the league, who's gonna get into the league. Do you know that we know that the first football league will be joined by football clubs "New Market" and "Worker" Kragujevac, there is no one else to compete with? The whole public knows that. At the end of this debate, I want to apologize for giving an example in principle. I'm from Krushevec. "Progress" fell out of "The Jelen Super League" because the match "Progress" was staged -- "Cukaric". A goalie, Punjakovic, participated in the match. Now defends in "New Market". I call on the authorities to bring him in, to tell him who brought him to Progress, for whom the game was staged, who were the two men who raised money in a betting facility in Belgrade where only one could be paid on that day. In Kruševec, no bookies received payment. In the principle debate, I said the game "Red Star" was staged – "Chukarički". I apologize to "Red Star", not "Red Star" – "Chukarički", but "Progress" – "Chukarički". Chukariski won in Krushevec. You have your arguments, Minister. Whenever you want, you can call me, I can tell you everything about setting up football games with us in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52482	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52483	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Minister, are devastating facts presented by fellow Momcilo Duvnjak, but, unfortunately, they are true. I'm going to try to bring my discussion out in another light, say, people love bread and games, because now we're talking about the law of sport. We support your efforts. Your intention was obviously good. You haven't given a maximum. It is not that we criticise that you and your associates did not give the maximum of the bill, but rather that we want to try to accept through these amendments some of these proposed amendments, and that the facts spoken by Momcilo Duvnjak are being checked by the competent authorities, in order to return to sport what the largest number of people are involved in. A large number of people want to achieve their career in a professional way in sports, but there are many more involved in sports to be properly raised and properly developed. It is therefore very important that since preschool age sport is included in preschool institutions, later through primary education, secondary education and eventually through college. I think the law on education and the law on sports should be two key laws in terms of better education, so, I would say even, education of our youth, because as we raise our youth, so we can expect the next period. We wanted to specify Article 3 of point 20, what rules and rules should be adopted by our organisations. You said it was contained in the bill. I'd like to dedicate a little bit of my time to that. The rules of sport shall be specified in Article 3. Point 20) reads: “Sport rules are rules laid down by the general acts of the competent... “ – We propose to add "International Sports Organisations" – "... national sports alliances," and so forth, not to read until the end. The desire is for a large number of athletes, in addition to achieving maximum and exceptional results in domestic competitions, to compete in international competitions and to comply with these rules. You're saying they exist somewhere, there's no interference, and it really doesn't affect the concept of your bill at all. I'd like to point out that there are a number of politicians sitting in sports clubs, the most professional sports clubs. If we as politicians really like sports, why don't we help him in a different way than we have to sit in those administrations? You agree. Well, of course, it's something very acceptable, to the extent that you can act. We in the Serbian Radical Party do not expect you to be the only man who could solve all the problems that have arisen in sports for many years, so even what fellow Duvnjak was talking about, you have to work a little harder. You own that energy, you can do it and try to do it. The top results are achieved, both in collective sports and in individual sports. It may also be a competition of athletes with themselves, a desire to get out of spite... I'm going back to the story, and it fits completely into the concept of what my colleague Krasic said, stubbornly, with both himself and others, and often challenging certain sports qualities; competitors want to show that they can cross over what appears on purpose. Here, you see, now the political parties to the best athletes... Many envy Novak Djokovic as a Serb, and some want to argue. Try as Minister to eliminate it and I'll help you affirm some sports events. In one small place, it is Love, games are organized on the water "Love Drina", where men and women teams are equally involved. It is organised by the Rafting Club "Drin Regatta", which takes place on the fourth weekend of July. There is a famous “Drina Regatta. ” She, however, has no only sporting significance, it's important for Drina to clean up. If we ever needed to affirm and popularize these manifestations that are being held on the Drina River, it is now. We believe that certain activities that will precede the maintenance of these events will lead to the cleaning of the coastal area, which, without the participation of athletes and all people of goodwill and those who want to live in a clean environment, cannot be carried out. It's not a single environment ministry, no matter how many countries, it can't clean up, how many people can do it when something is voluntarily organised and reported. So keep this event in mind, give the Ministry your support and I think you'll do a good deed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52484	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52485	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always look forward to having a minister who knows what he's talking about and who wants to share an opinion with the MPs, because only in this symbiosis can contribute to the improvement of the law. That is why I must respond to Madam Minister for what she has sent to the DSS Group, which has tabled an amendment to Article 1. You were talking about how the Ministry recognized the importance of recreational sport, that it is in many strategies and that you have increased the budget of many alliances and associations of recreational alliances, around 100%, around 200%. I have to ask the public how much money it is, because it's numbers that aren't enough, obviously, but we'll talk about it when we get those figures. Secondly, you talked about what MPs actually want, what definition and what else. I will answer you on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia. What we expect from you is that the definitions are clear, precise and understandable above all for the people who will apply this law. When quoting, or taking over definitions from the European Sports Charter and other documents, these definitions should indeed be faithfully translated into the basic text of the law. There were already words about how a sport was defined and what a sport was, which is not a sport and the like. So these are the things the DSS expects you to do, and that's why I'm going to talk about this Article 3 later. On the other hand, my colleague Peric somehow regained my consciousness, the moment the sport lost that Greek ideal "beat yourself so you can beat others", he somehow lost the essence. That is why we are coming to this modern gladiatoric sport, which, however, we are following with increasing effort, and materially, but richly and at the cost of some other things that are important, such as morality, behavior and the like, because we have increased aggression that is rooted in justice, etc. There's something else I need to say. A lot was expected of this law, for 15 years this law was to be surprised. Although athletes, sports workers and sports audiences say the biggest problem of the 1996 Law was that it was not applied, that there were some things that were much better defined, at least they were simpler and more understandable. It's a grudge when we talk about Article 3. When I read this Article 3, this way formulated, somehow the definitions that you've passed on sounded raving. When you read them several times, they're really incomprehensible and they're very obnoxious. Somehow it reminded me, it was my personal impression when I read it, about that Shuvar reform – you have a salad picker and his assistant. As a pandan of what I have just said, point 21) and point 22), so, sports inspector and professional sports supervisor, somehow both have jobs that are overlapping, so the professional sports inspector performs and oversees professional work in the field of sports. We thought it would be completely meaningful, because of the simplicity of things, and also because we somehow develop into a sports personality, even if a professional sports person who is capable of overseeing, overseeing the law, but to see the very professional process of working in some sports activities... We felt that it was necessary to delete point 22) and to give the sports inspector the opportunity to carry out and monitor professional work in the field of sports, to monitor and propose the measures taken by the organisation in the field of sport, i.e. sports expert, in order to remove deficiencies, and to inform the Minister in charge of sport about the observed shortcomings. So we thought it was much simpler for many environments. What I'm going to say now may be blasphemous, but what the sports public in smaller cities comment on, what the professors of high and elementary schools comment on, is that the law has been done according to "Partizana" and "Stars". They didn't recognize themselves there. It is a great regret, and the thing we have done, the Democratic Party of Serbia, in this Article 3, points 21 and 22), is surprised by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52486	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52487	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once you've asked this question about exact amounts, it would be my pleasure to bring them out to the public, and to respect the request of the DSS Parliament Club. Before I present the figures, I'll tell you that the Ministry is bound, under the current law, to pay off the money to the alliances, in accordance with the categorization. The categorisation consists of the current Sports Union of Serbia. Sports alliances dealing with recreational sports do not belong to the first group of sports, so I do not have the discretionary ability to significantly, perhaps even more in numbers, help them, but I will tell you that, let's say, the Alliance for Recreative Sports, which received a 200% increase, will have three million dinars available this year, while the Sports for All Association will have five million dinars. I don't think these are the biggest numbers, because according to the "guber" we have, that's what we could do, and in accordance with the categorization of course, where, I repeat, unlike some others, we have increased far more. I will also remind you that border sports alliances have obligations to deal with recreational programmes and that there is a competition in the ministry. Let me give you an example that the Judo Union of Serbia last year built a recreational camp called "Judo Friends", which brought together young athletes from the Balkans. The project was so well-accepted that it was best-choiced to win the "Sport for All" award, it entered three of the best. But in order not to keep the work of the Assembly and not to burden the MPs with this, I will only answer your question why we have introduced categories of sports overseer and sports inspector and what is the difference between them. We just heard what was going on in Kruševec and elsewhere and that it would be very good if there was more serious surveillance. Under the current law, the only thing the Youth and Sports Ministry can do is send a surveillance that only deals with documents; the only authority that this surveillance has is to say that something is wrong and not good, there is no sanction available in case things happen that you have just heard, which, unfortunately, we are witnesses. So the difference is very significant. The sports inspector has an obligation and the authority to look at the documents. This is practically administrative surveillance and requires legal knowledge and adequate examinations. As far as expert supervision is concerned, the team must deal with sports experts; not lawyers, but those who know the essence of training, who are trained and educated in colleges, to examine whether anyone has adequate standards, for example, to work with children. This means it has nothing to do with documents; a man who does it doesn't have to be a lawyer, but must have adequate sports education. In order not to increase the administration, so that Serbian citizens would not be obliged to pay even more administrations for this kind of work, we entrusted this job to the Republic Sport Office, which in individual cases may request and prescribe that experts from various sports go to this kind of surveillance. We have 96 border sports alliances. We cannot and do not want to have 96 inspectors in the ministry, but, as the law provides, they will be rented individually by the Republic Sports Institute to save citizens of Serbia and yet there will be adequate control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52488	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3rd point. 21) and 22) Proposal for a law on sports. The text in point 21) of Article 3 reads – the sports inspector is a person who is authorised to carry out inspection, i.e. to examine, as you would say in the text, "implementation", which is properly "implementation", the law on sport, in the procedures and actions of natural persons and organisations in the field of sport, where we from the Serbian Radical Party, in particular as an MP, have submitted an amendment to add the words "associations and organisations". At point 22) of the same article, which reads: “The professional sports supervisor of sports is a person who oversees professional work in the field of sports, monitors and proposes the measures taken by the organisation in the field of sport... “ we also predicted that the words “associations and associations ” should be added. The government has not accepted an amendment to this article, i.e. to point. ( 21) and (22) of Article 3. The bill, on the grounds that the bill regulates this more precisely. It can't be more precise than what was proposed by the amendment. There's a general provision in the bill. By submitting this amendment, we wanted to dispute and to specify more precisely the participants and organisational parts in the field of sport. That could be more specific. The government could respond, and you can now, Mrs Samardzic Markovic, say that there is a provision – an organisation in the field of sport, within which termologically there are both sports organisations and sports associations and sports companies, so that we can accept in the SRS and, in particular, me as an amendment promoter; we would agree with that. But to be more precise -- we cannot accept that; I cannot accept that the text in the bill is more precise than the amendment. In Article 3 to point. 21) and 22), I believe... I would like you to follow me closely, and I see that you and your associates are following closely, and the reasons for the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party and other MPs, because I do not agree with the terms in these two points. It's called a sports inspector. Wasn't it more appropriate to say – sport inspector? For against “sports ” stands“ unsportsmanlike. ” This is just an adjective, the character of an inspector. And that's a sports inspector who does certain things. I find it more meaningful and logical. Also, point 22 says: “The professional sports supervisor of sports. ” This is even more inappropriate than the term used in point 21). It was more appropriate to say: "expert sports supervisor", still in the description – which performs certain jobs in the field of sport. Further in the text is the obligation of a professional sports supervisor to monitor and propose the measures taken by the organisation. If you're thinking about measures, whether they're positive or negative, whether they're in accordance with the sport law or not, it can be kind of accepted, but it's indicative, when you say the measures, that these are measures that mean a certain sanction and punishment for non-compliance under the law. Then the definition of these words is inadequate. It would be more appropriate if you wrote that he has an obligation to follow and propose measures against action organisations that are contrary to this law, if we talk about measures that involve sanctions for non-compliance, which is in accordance with this law. Serbian Radical Party MPs also told you, and this has some touch points with this amendment, that we in the SRS think politicians should not interfere in sports. Politicians who have been active in sports, regardless of the rank, can take part in sports, do something for sport, regardless of rank and level and organisation in sport, but the politician himself is a politician – it's not right. That can't be the basis of his sport. We have the latest example: the possibility of Dragan Gilas being president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia is mentioned, only because he is a politician and mayor of Belgrade and vice-president of the Democratic Party. I don't know how useful that is. Personally, I don't think so. That Gilas used to be actively involved in sports, that he knew sports as some former active athlete, so I understand. But whether it's Gilas or someone else, just because he's a politician, he's doing a lot of damage to sports in general and to a branch where he takes active part in solving certain issues as president and member of a board of directors of a particular club or alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52490	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Zlata Đeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. At a session of the Youth and Sports Committee, the proposer accepted the amendment, and the Youth and Sports Committee also accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I remain on the proposal for an amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS, but I would point out some facts about which a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Minister should be informed and know, and if not notified, here I am today in the name of Pančeca and Pančev athletes. Panchevo has three world champions: Naje Higl, a swimmer, world champion, Slobodan Bitevic, world karate champion and Peđa Stojadinov, who was the champion of the world in karate years ago. The city of Panchevo had a large number of first federal league clubs. You have in Panchev and now a large number of sports clubs, to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry pay no attention. Madam Minister, you well know, if you were asking yourself, that in that town, Nadja Higl was preparing for the World Cup and, if you checked, that the open pool in Pancheva was built in 1964 and that the army built it without Panchevo having a closed pool. Nadia Higgle has nowhere to prepare, to prepare for new victories. According to my knowledge, you didn't approve a yellow bank, that funds from the republic's budget were allocated to the closed pool in Panchev. I'm asking you why you didn't do it. Do you know that Pančev's city from which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has exhausted everything? Now he's gone from where, the only thing left is Petrochemy. No sports grounds, especially when it comes to swimming pools. It's necessary to build an Olympic pool in Pancheva. Why don't you investigate? Why don't you check it out? Why don't you approve the budget for building a closed pool in Panchev? Please, find some funds, help the town of Pancheva, because the town of Panchevo cannot finance independently from its budget, although a decision has been made to close the pool, precisely because of the athletes and the great potential that exists in Pancheva, ensures that Nadja Higl, who had major problems in the past, traveled 100 kilometers to prepare for the world championship... Find a part of the means to help the town of Pancheva, because the town of Panchevo deserves it. The world champion has brought a gold medal to this country, and this country, I hope, has an obligation to this athlete and other athletes and to the city where Nadia Higl came out. That's what I'm asking you, please try, ask around, but take it up and help the Pancians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52492	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm impressed by this love of Panchev. She doesn't surprise me anyway. I'll tell you things you may not know, but just to let you know before that, I'm surprised you didn't know – you say Panchevo doesn't have a closed pool, and according to my knowledge, there's a closed pool, though, 25 meters away, but there's a closed pool. You didn't even know that the Youth and Sports Ministry, among other things, installed a mini-pitch terrain, or field with artificial grass, along with its partners, in the town of Panchev. I can tell you that we put the first (and only for now) hockey court on the grass thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and, of course, the enthusiasts themselves from that Federation, both international and domestic. However, one thing, you may have known the same thing, but you may not have known – Nadja Higl is a student of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, regularly receives scholarships, as well as the caratists you mentioned, and especially Bitevic. I was president of the World Karate Championship Organising Committee. Not only is he a scholarship student, a regular student of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and accordingly this country, but he received a prize along with his colleagues. You may have known all this, maybe you didn't. However, there is one thing you certainly didn't know, which is that in the Ministry of Youth and Sports as assistant minister is doing exactly one Panchevac, who is a former judo champion and who is at this point along with a few colleagues of the EPA Council of Europe, a leading body that helps sports at the level of the Council of Europe. I'm very proud of his work. Also, since there was talk about whether experts or experts only exist outside the ministry in the ministry, in addition to the said assistant minister, who, among other things, has mastered sports in Lozana, who is taking those high places in international sports circles, it is an opportunity to tell you that the head of our legal department, Ms. Ana Kosovac, is the first, at the same time, in the history of the T-RV Committee of Europe, which deals with precisely the issues of violence in sport. That's what I'd end up with, maybe I've informed you enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52494	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 4 of the amendment... [[Petar Jojic, from the place: Can I get a replica?]] (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: Do you hear, Mr. Novakovic? ) Miss Jovanovic, please do not throw, first of all. Secondly, Mr. Jojic came forward ten seconds ago, not by the replica, and you're yelling, I can hear and I don't have to. So I'm not paying attention to yelling. Mr. Petar Jojic has now come forward and he will get the word, and you get the word after you advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52495	Article 27. Mr. Chairman, just to warn you to pay attention, it's not a joke, as you tried to present it. I, for my part, get the circumstances, because of the amendments I have on behalf of the SRS Group, I am not standing next to you. You know that I always direct you politely and nicely when you do not follow to pay attention to MPs who respond in any way. I'm really sorry that you're distracted right now because I'm not there, but I'm asking you to pay attention in the future and hold a session as a member of the 27th order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52496	There is no violation of the provisions of Article 27, but there are abuses of Rules of Procedure by calling on provisions that are clearly not violated. I am very focused, and Mr. Jojic will, of course, get a word every time he logs in using the electronic system, as I am now going to give him my word. Thank you for understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, you've given an explanation that I'm not satisfied with. You've been too extensive and you've come out of my question. I didn't talk about where someone was in the executive post, but the generally known fact in Serbia, especially earlier, that big profits in sports were taking off their hats, and small profits were taking off their heads. Madam Minister, I know there's a small pool in Panchev that was built 40 years ago. Does this satisfy the needs of a city that has 130,000 inhabitants? It's not satisfying. Does Panchevo deserve to be built one, because of the world's champion, the Olympic pool in Pancheva? There's a need. On the other hand, I'd like you to say today that for this pool, which is already planned to be built in the town of Pancheva, the Ministry, or the Government has the opportunity to find the funds and help the city of Panchev to build this closed pool? Here, these world champions, who are currently three in Panchev, deserve to get more funding from the budget. According to my information from the mayor, because I'm a councilman there... We will ask these questions at the next assembly in Pancheva – how much funds can your ministry separate and does it intend to allocate a reasonable amount of money for the city of Pancheva for the renovation and construction of sports facilities? It's my request, and I know you can do it, I guarantee there's so much money for it. On behalf of the Pančevas, once again, I ask you to allocate the funds for the sport in Pancheva to be returned to the level that was before and that Pancheva, and it has a perspective... to be proud of the Pancians, the recordmen and champions with gold medals in the next competitions. That's my wish, that's my suggestion. If you adopt, adopt. If not, at least I had good intentions. I believe you will find opportunities in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52498	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the bill states that "everyone has the right to play sports". Don't you think that's a little bumpy? counterpart Acimovic suggested "Sport is available to all citizens of Serbia". Don't you think this is more celery? In particular, we would disagree with the explanation where you say: “Amendment is not accepted for reasons of integrity, because in a way stated by the amendment it narrows down the circle of persons who are allowed to engage in sports. ” How do you think it narrows down when we say that sport is available to all Serbian citizens? Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52500	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just briefly say that in some of our clubs, as you know, at this point, and it is possible to be in the future, sports and foreigners. If we put what you suggested, if sport is available to all citizens of Serbia, some of them may have a problem. We thought it was more cellular to stand as we have defined ourselves from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52502	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52503	Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, based on Article 161. I have submitted the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly an amendment, on behalf of the SRS, to the proposal for a law on sports. Article 6 following the word "organisation" adds the words "associations, associations and natural persons", after which the words "seat" are added to the words "inhabitation or stay". The rights and obligations set out in this law apply to all organisations, associations, associations and individuals in the field of sport, who have their seat, residence or stay in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and to any exercise of sports activities and activities. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that the provisions of the law be clearly defined. It is impossible that the provisions of this law do not apply to associations, when we know that sports collectives are actually citizens' associations. It also has to apply to the associations that are in our sport. What is crucial is, with this amendment, we propose that the law be applied to individuals in sports as well. In the follow-up to this amendment, we propose that, in addition to the word "seats", the words "inhabitation and stay". This applies especially to persons who come to our clubs from other countries, have no citizenship and as such have a stay. It is logical that the law applies to them, since they are also individuals who participate in sports. I'm guessing there's been an accidental error in the construction of article 6 and it's an oversight. That's why I suggest that my amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52504	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Dragan Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52505	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 9(1). The proposal "an agreement on the scholarship of a minor athlete for sports training or a sports contract" is deleted, as are recitals 4, 5 and 7. It would be best, Mrs Samardzic, if the whole law were to be done again. I'm not a fool, but the opinion of most of the expert public is that. In the first sentence of point 1, "an agreement on the scholarship of a minor athlete for sports training or a sports contract" should be deleted because they make the provision unclear and unnecessaryly restricting the right to scholarship athletes only to minors and restrict the type of contract that athletes and sports organisations can conclude, contrary to the laws governing bond relations. In most of the law, in many members there is contact with other laws, whether constitutional, rights or something like that, and the law should be concise, precise and clear and there is no room for arbitraryness. Article 4 should be deleted because it is completely unnecessary because the obligation to comply with concluded contracts is governed by the contract itself and by laws governing bonding relations and the sport rules of the relevant alliance, so that this provision is excessive. Paragraph 5 should be deleted because the way and conditions for the conclusion of a contract by a person whose business capacity is limited are governed by other laws and cannot be changed by this law. Article 7 should be deleted because the terms and conditions of the arrangements are governed by the laws governing bond relations, as well as by the Labour Act, which is fully governed by this area. We had a case, say, in Article 22, the amendment of the SNS, which was accepted and it's good that it is... A football team selector calls two representatives, Lukovic and Danko Lazovic, and they respond that they do not want to play for the team. Imagine that the law regulates Article 22 that they have to respond, that they have to put on a uniform. Their motivation would be strong and, worst of all, would be their game! It shows that there are many gaps in this bill, and it was an ideal opportunity, Mrs Samardzic, for this sphere to be arranged properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52506	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52507	We have before us, Madam Minister, a member of five positions. He is quite voluntous and contributes to the overall volume of the law, which was referred to by the position and opposition in the principle discussion. With our amendments, we wanted to change it by erasing the last three attitudes. They talk about bond relations, contractual relations between athletes and sports club, possibly continuing the continuity of former members, and here is the next, 11th member, who constantly deals with such things that are clearly regulated by another law. What we left unchanged is in this very large, rich and content attitude 1, which may have been divided into two sentences and two positions, because it also contains such a sentence, when it defines discrimination ( otherwise clearly defined by another law), where it lists what can be, "including discrimination against professional athletes and athletes who want to become so, in terms of employment", etc. So pretty vague. This sentence would be quite logical if it cared somewhere, without involving athletes and athletes who wanted to become one; why would we take it away? Well, we haven't changed these amendments. We wanted to replace just some elements, for example, in Section 3 where it says that "sportsmen who do not have a fully concluded contract with a particular sports organisation cannot be denied the law". If we translate the rules of sports into free interpretation into the rules of sports games, what does the contract have to do with the rules of some sport games? It's simple, it's settled by law, and you didn't have to go into details here. We are about the fact that a member in this position 2 could also mention discrimination and a relevant contract that would be void if elements of discrimination appeared, or that he remained so as to be a single member of 10th or joined a former member of 9th or 11th where circumstances were created in which the contract could not be concluded between athletes and a sports organisation. We wanted to work not only on volume reduction, on some aesthetic and rational side of the law, but also on its clarity and better application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52508	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, it is really good that you are actively involved and that, I have the impression, you are very careful to listen to the arguments held by the MPs, including the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, on the grounds of the amendments submitted. It doesn't make any sense to us that you don't accept to a sufficient extent our amendment that we think is meaningful, at least a good part of them, and that they aim to in some way improve the text of this law. I think after this argument, you'll either be in a situation or you'll accept the amendment or you'll explain a little more clearly why I'm wrong or why you don't think this amendment should be accepted. In Article 10(3) of this proposal of the law, you provided that athletes who do not have a fully concluded contract with a particular sports organisation cannot be denied the right to conclude a contract with another sport organisation. That's good. However, you said, or at the end of this position: "with the payment of the fee to the sports organisation from which it departs from." I asked the amendment to delete this part of the fee. The government tells me that the proposed solution is more cellular and that it protects the interests of athletes. Watch it now, Madam Minister, is that right? You have here only predicted the obligation to pay a sports organisation's fee from which it leaves by the sports organisation to which it passes, and only as a flat-rate norm where absolutely nothing is specified: neither when the fee is paid, in any amount, nor anything related to the relevant circumstances of the fee. I think there's actually a field here where there can be manipulation, where there can be abuse of this right by a sports organization. What happens, Madam Minister, if the sports organisations don't agree? Whose back is that shooting? Let's say, that organisation that's supposed to pay the fee is agreeing with another, and in case it doesn't want to pay the amount that this one's asking for, of course, it goes directly to the sportsman, not a sports organisation, but just athletes. I think this can be interpreted as one limiting norm. So if the clubs agree, he can cross and if he doesn't have a contract, that's a lie; if they don't agree, he can't cross. He just doesn't have a chance to cross. If you wanted to protect the athletes, I'm thinking that this should have been more precise to predict the ways and conditions of how to do it. If this has not already been done, then delete this as an option for manipulation if you want to adequately protect athletes. I think you're actually limiting the transition of a sportsman who doesn't have a contract, a full-time contract with a sports organisation, by limiting him to move to another sports club, because simply two organisations won't agree. He won't be able to cross that moment, the deadline will pass and it goes to the direct damage of the athlete. I'd like you to accept this amendment or give me a more adequate explanation about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52510	The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52511	Thank you very much. The essence of this norm is just to protect the athlete, since our current practice... We didn't put this out of anger, we put it out of our desire to protect the athlete. These mutual claims have already been regulated by the rules of the sport organisations themselves. But your central question was – what if they don't agree and how do they solve such things? I'll tell you that border sports alliances have their own arbitration, too, so it's practically going to sports arbitration. The same is true, as the law stipulates, to make one roof sports arbitration, which is just in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52512	Thank you. Dusan Maric and Mirko Munjic also answered the words. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52513	Madam Minister, you said there were certain standards that regulate this question I asked. In my opinion, given the inaccuracy that exists here, in this part of the bill, that's exactly why this shouldn't be standing here, it needs to be deleted. If you already have it properly regulated there, why are you creating it here, it's still... Look, you know that the legal act is something that is in any case under certain sublaws. What you say exists, it's a sublegal act, it's a rule. However, this provision of the law is unclear and can in practice bring confusion, and I am afraid of abuse. That's why I asked you to delete this. Since you've already got that regulated, why do you need a vague norm in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52514	The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52515	Madam Minister, you said - it can and it doesn't have to. So sports clubs can agree on crossing players who don't have a contract, but they don't have to agree. A fellow Munjic asks a question, I repeat, what will happen if the clubs don't agree anyway, regardless of all the regulations that exist in sports organisations? Theoretically, a player may have two options: to stay in that same club forever or to stop playing sports. Another thing is a controversial formulation – if they agree on compensation. Does this mean that clubs have to agree on compensation at any cost? They can arrange for a club player to go to the club without any compensation. That's why I think it's too high after all. Secondly, I'm taking the opportunity to draw your attention to a sports collective who, according to the prosecution's findings in Smederev, is already being charged, used for money laundering, and now it looks like he's also buying parliamentary mandates for accounting authorities with political opponents. It's the Morava football club from the Great Plan. I'm going to mention only three affairs related to this club, and I'm going to start from the last one. The president of the Velika Plana municipality, Dejan Sulkic, is trying to sell the City Heat for 20 years before the mandate expires and part of the municipal company Milos Mitrovic for 30 years to customers from Austria and the Czech Republic. Since the law prohibits the sale of public utility companies, business is being conducted under the form of "trusting businesses". Now you'll see what this has to do with sports and football club Morava. Since he does not have a congregation majority ready to vote this sale, which has upset the citizens, Šulkic and his associates these days are going from committee to committee, fulfilling their wishes, one job, another job, the third promise to hire his son and daughter. Be careful, five days ago, a council member at the Snezana Mladenovic Municipality of Radavanje gets a job at the Morava football club. She claims the job was given to her by the president of the municipality. In this way, the sports collective has practically involved in creating a new assembly majority and changing the electoral will of the citizens of the Great Plan. Now, you know what's interesting here? The president of the municipality, the football club and municipalities, the municipal budget has the means to employ a councilman, whose voice is needed by the president of the municipality, and they do not have the means to pay workers Sretko Jovic, Johan and Cveti Rasic, who worked at the football club and are now forced to fight through court proceedings for their fair money. Next thing you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52516	I'm sorry, Mr. Maric, we kind of got close to sports, but I can't see what that has to do with it, so I'm asking you to bring it into contact with your colleague Munjic's amendment to Article 10(3). Well, since that's the subject, I ask you to explain it to me in the next 30 seconds, so we don't have any further problems between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52517	Sir, thank you for your time. I said what I wanted to say in essence, I'll just remind you that in the debate on amendments here there were words, I've recorded correctly, about religiouss, sects, Žarko Olarevic, Kurchubić, hunting and fishing, kung fu, polo clubs, horses, so none of the presidents warned the MPs not to talk about these topics. One of the essential things that deals with this law is to prevent football clubs, sports organisations from selling sports grounds for building housing units and other similar facilities, so in the next minute I'm going to look at one of these cases and I'm going to finish my discussion. So, a few years ago, the municipal government in the Great Plan, where I am currently president of SO, sold for 99 years, please the minister to pay attention, the second auxiliary football field of the Morava football club. You know why she sold it? To build a supermarket. To get this legal form, the municipality did this: the government, headed by President Dejan Sulkic, declared the football club a public enterprise. Now I ask you, do you know another case that some football club in Serbia has become a public enterprise? The land was rented or sold for 99 years, and the Assembly of the Municipality then decides that the club is no longer a public enterprise, but becomes an association of citizens. Therefore, I call on you, calling on the authorities to launch an investigation into the sale of the football field in the Great Plan, and to check whether the exact stories have been made that the president of the Big Plan Municipality of Mr. Dejan Šulkic has received two double apartments, one in newly built residential buildings in the Great Plana, the second in the settlement of the Chukaric slope in Belgrade. The last question and the final request, as president of the SO Great Plan, I ask to see if it is true for years that the president of the municipality and club management are setting up the Morava football club matches and that the most because of this, Morava from one of the best members of the Serbian league, even fighting to get into another league, has become the zone at the bottom of the table, I think it is now in the last place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52518	Thank you, but now I have to tell you, in the heat of the debate, various figures of style are used, and then there are also talk of the topics that you mentioned, but by the way, and to create a picture or to be convincing, but it was never too much of a subject for any MP, so I think Mr. Mijaljević will fully agree with me. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52519	Honestly, I didn't mean to report for this amendment, but I was provoked by Mr. Maric's discussion. He and Mr. Sulkic are in the same local government, and they could handle it at the bar. Otherwise, when it comes to your sports successes, Mr. Maric, we have read enough in "Kuru". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52520	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please don't provoke, don't speak directly. So the 11th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52521	I thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I suggest we go back to the subject and get this debate serious. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, sport has become a highly profitable business activity in modern society, which has opened up many issues that are affecting the domain of constitutional law. With the global expansion of sports, there has also been a need for new types of bonds and business contracts, as well as for specific regulation of criminal and particularly harmful responsibilities. The contract is one of the basics of the legal system and is represented as such in all aspects and at all levels of sport, from contract employment, the engagement of players, trainers, managers, staff, to the conclusion of jobs, the purchase of equipment, the purchase of sponsorship, and the sale of rights to transfer matches and other attractive jobs. Contracts in sport can be found in several different forms, however, several standard provisions are represented in each of them. These are: Contracting Parties, contract terms, obligations and obligations of the parties and termination of the contract, in particular under which circumstances and with which commission. The contract must clearly identify and highlight the parties, usually with the full name of individuals or organisations involved in the contract. In my humble opinion, it's the only thing clearly defined by Article 11. A proposal for a sports law. Another important provision that each sports contract should contain is a contract deadline, which defines the time until the contract is legally valid. Also, a contract in sport should cover both situations and circumstances under which each of the parties has the right to terminate the contract, as well as to receive the appropriate compensation which, you will agree, is mostly financial. This provision should define the right of the parties to situations where the contract expires or where one of the parties does not comply with the agreed rules of the contract. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that it is a member of 11. A proposal for a law on sports failed to define a contract between athletes and a sports organisation. We also believe that the issues that are trying to regulate this member are in a more complete, comprehensive way governed by other laws and rules of the sport alliances and international federations. For this reason, I urge you to accept the amendment of the SNS Group of Representatives to Serbia and to delete Article 11. A proposal for a sports law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52522	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Stefan Zankov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have, even in principle, resented the promoter that the proposal for a law on sports contains many of the provisions that are the matter of other system laws, which is not complete, even if they are not contrary. On the other hand, we do not believe that there is a reasonable reason to prescribe the obligation of athletes and their organisations to regulate their relations exclusively by a labour contract, especially since this contract is often unsuitable for regulating such a relationship, and the proposed provision is also contrary to the Labour Act as regards the duration of the contract for a certain period of time. Sportsmen and their organisations must be left with the freedom to maintain their relations with the offices in a manner appropriate to them in accordance with the possibilities provided by the applicable legal order and there is no excuse for such freedom to be restricted, thereby violating the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. The rights to other types of fees are governed by general economic regulations and copyright rules, as well as by international sport Federation rules, so such a partial arrangement of this law can create unnecessary problems for athletes and sports organisations. The temporary deployment of athletes to another organisation is governed by the sport rules of the relevant alliances and international Federations and contracts, and cannot be regulated by law, as this unduly and excessively limits the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. These are the reasons why we propose to be a member of the 12th. The sport bill's been deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52524	Thank you, Mr. Zankov. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52525	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, you've heard of that saying – you're a sports loser. It has spread not only to sports activities, but very often to some elections and anything beyond that. He says, "Sportsmanly bear defeat," which means we should talk here in a different way. What I said shouldn't be brought into any relationship... Try to defeat you. I just have to tell you that you in the SRS Parliamentary Group really have speakers who can talk about sports in a very qualified way. Some, i.e. their confirmation as athletes, were spoken by our MP, Zoran Krasic. Just to remind you, Sulejman Spaho is someone who played handball at the Mepritlastica Machva from Šapac, in our most trophy handball club. Then, Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, as an authorised representative of the SRS on the proposal for a law on sports, is someone who was also on the organisational committee, where you were the president of the World Cup at the end of last year in Serbia, where we won the observed results and is an active karate player. So this should be understood, it shouldn't be banalized and sometimes try to cast some shadow on what we're talking about today. Mr. Chairman, Miss Natasa Jovanovic couldn't scream. An animal can scream, guli, or something like that, and one of us can scream a little bit occasionally, which would say harder, but if it were to scream, it just isn't possible. It's just a reminder that you rarely get out of the picture. Madam Minister, you wanted to compete with Petro Jojic, is everything he said so. It's my guess, when it comes to sports, that you should know more than we MPs do, even as far as the place we come from is concerned, especially if it's in the rank of top-notch sports like the city of Panchevo. In order not to refer to it, we have analyzed in detail Article 12 of this proposal. We believe that he regulates the relationship between a professional athlete and a sports organisation or a club in a different way than the labour law does, and here we are in the domain of establishing a working relationship. True, Article 12, paragraph 1, states: “A professional athlete has a working relationship with a sports organisation to conclude a work contract for a certain time, up to five years. ” There's another sentence after that. We think that after the comma, where the working relationship is regulated for a certain period of time, there should be a point. The rest of the sentence, i.e. Article 1 should be deleted. As a reason for not accepting this amendment, you stated that this was more conveniently regulated than the labour law. Time yes, but there's no need to limit it at all. Perhaps a professional athlete hangs it like a sword over his head “for a certain time, up to five years. ” Make it an indefinite time, especially if you say you can later with the same sports organization or with someone else to extend that contract. If he can already extend it, I think this should be completely erased. You accepted 14 amendments and did not accept 196. When I said that the SRS Parliamentary Group really spoke with argument about these amendments, I didn't want to underestimate the discussion of other colleagues. So here you could hear a lot of good suggestions, sometimes in a better and more precise way regulate certain provisions; they come out of that law, they take away these ambiguities and dilemmas. It will be much easier for you as Minister (as long as you are still there, it is not at all a question) to apply this law with precise and good legal standards. When it comes to what you heard from Mr. Duvnjak and other colleagues, and from Dusan Maric, don't worry about it very much. As a graduate lawyer, I would say it is under the authority of Minister Dacic and special prosecutor for organised crime, Mr Radisavljevic. You only from this sport aspect with your associates should help them detect such cases. You really don't have any reason not to let it go. I think it's in the interest of sport and that today's debate and when this law is passed we really want to establish the foundations, where all the people involved in sports will have this law, which someone has tried to do anyway, some benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52526	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52527	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 12 in Section 2, but we have added a new position 3. This member edits sportsmen's relations with the club. We believe that this existing position is 2 where it reads: “The interruption of work less than 30 days does not affect the duration of working relationship”, and we added: “The termination of work for more than 30 days does not continuously take place at the time of the completion of the contract of work referred to in Article 1”. What is much more important to us than this is the 3rd position we have added, which is: “The termination of the work resulting from the injury sustained during the competition or preparation shall not be included at the time at which the contract on work under item 1 is concluded. ” What made us write a amendment like this? How sport in modern times lost its original purpose, which is to beat yourself, and not to defeat the opponent, to humiliate him and kill him, to teach some coaches, and to point out that when I spoke in principle, and how athletes, especially professional athletes, those who achieve the ultimate results, really became modern gladiators, we find it very important to limit themselves in this labour contract and that such a sportsman who is injured during the competition is someone, some future boss or someone who has this club, uglyly said, but that is how they behave, simply leave him without being able and that during the time he is injured he is unemployed and that he loses all the benefits he received from this contract of work. That's why we think it would be, as far as we're concerned, very relevant that the Ministry understands what we've been trying to make here and accept this amendment, because it would actually prevent it from being modern gladiatorism and what it shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52528	Thank you. On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52529	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SRS and counterparts Vitomir Plužarevic have submitted an amendment to amend Article 12's position and to read: 'The fees of the 3rd member's position shall be determined by the general acts of the relevant border sports union'. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is not necessary to leave any alternative in this area. Jurisdiction must belong to a border sports organisation, not to an association or club. We think there are arguments in this part, and something similar to this moment you've been saying, is there any possibility that, for example, a player who for any reason doesn't come across an understanding in his sports organization has a way of paying his own compensation and moving on to another club? In this way, clubs are allowed to literally own all players. We know how it's done in the West today: the player is absolutely not wondering, the club owner and the manager are wondering, and he has to go where they tell him to go. After all, this is Serbia, Madam Minister. I wouldn't turn around so much and I'd let go, especially in cases where we have extremely and above-average talented athletes, not to be slaves to their clubs and to allow them to change the environment in a perfectly correct and decent way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52530	One minute and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 to delete Article 6. I explained that obligations between a professional athlete and a sports organisation are regulated by a contractual obligation under the Bond Relations Act. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. Madam Minister, I'm a man who doesn't understand much about sports, but by following in the papers and watching what's happening today in Serbia, up on a platform where young people are watching a sport that has become a gladiator sport and where there's a lot of aggression, I think this law should work to develop love and solidarity among those young people who root for their athletes to prevent all the abuses that we have today and that we see on sports grounds. But it must be evident that the greatest corruption and the greatest crime in sports are. I believe that the writing of this law should have been attended by professional athletes, probably involved, but also by prominent lawyers, so that there would be no certain abuses in sport. With this amendment, I actually wanted to prevent all of this, because it says here that one athlete can be assigned to another sports organisation without asking the athlete if he wants to cross. So we need to understand that sports today is the most important branch in raising young people, who want to create their way tomorrow in this sport. Although I am an antisportist, I still feel that there is a great desire for every country, every authority to instruct young people to unwind streets, drugs and everything that today is a vice in society. I think what's going on today... You were in Šapco, you opened a sports hall there that will be designed for school and preschool children so that they can play sports and increase their physical readiness, that is, to do what is said in the people – in a healthy body, a healthy spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52532	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52533	I thank the People's MP, especially for the fact that he has repeatedly pointed out the importance of sports in raising young people, and especially for pointing out the importance of sport and talking about its enormous importance. I agree with that and therefore consider it a privilege to be a minister of sports in Serbia. I wanted to take the opportunity, first, to answer earlier questions – what if the athlete gets hurt. He certainly won't, nor can he be a slave, because this law, unlike the previous one, provides for an obligation for athletes to be provided by the organisation in which they work. I still owe a reply to the People's Messenger; more precisely, not an answer, but one request. You said that such a kind of loan could be made among clubs without question by athletes. I kindly ask you to read the final point of view of Article 12, especially the end of that article, and I will read it for the sake of the public: “... with the consent of a professional athlete." So, I don't know how you read that it can be done without the will of athletes when it explicitly states in the law: "with the consent of a professional athlete". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52534	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52535	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I'm very glad you're answering because I really think we need to get things straight. You mentioned insurance in the event of an injury. It's a completely different kind of fee from the one I was talking about. I was talking about the labor contract. So he's really going to get a fee, but it's not safe, because you in article 15 say he can be secured. You're not saying it has to be secured. It's questionable whether he'll get that fee. On the other hand, the labor contract protects him in another way. He's also very important to a professional athlete and a top athlete. In case he does not have such a work contract, his salary does not run (conditionally said, pay), he has no social security, no health insurance. That's what I'm talking about. Then it puts him in the category - slave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52536	Madam Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52537	Speaking of reading accuracy, please refer to Article 19(1): "The sports organisation is obliged to conclude a contract on the insurance of its top athletes from the consequences of the accident during the performance of sports activities and based on established ranking of athletes". So, please, once again, I draw your attention to the words “it is due. ” I think that's enough of an explicit commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52538	Thank you, dear Madam Minister for Youth and Sports. People's MPs, before we continue the work, allow me to welcome in your name a group of high school students, members of the Union of high school parliaments from Požarec, who are following part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, and are present: Kristina Jelić, Tina Poštić, Valentina Živadinović, Vesna Gajic, Milica Živković, Melani Lazarovski, Milica Perović, Tijana Nikolic, Milena Miladović, Amela Čaković, Ivana Miladinović, Andrijana Stolić, Tanja Babejić, Jovana Tomić, Marija Jović, Tamara Stojković, Kristina Ilic, Žačina Branković, Marija Miljanović, Marija Miladinović, Tamara Miladinović, Miljana Miladić, Miladić, Miljana Miladić, Milić, Milja Doljić, Milić, Milić, Milja Doljić, Milja. Welcome to your house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Enjoy this moment. This is a debate that concerns absolutely all of you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52539	Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party tried to amend the position of the 1st member, which regulates who can be an independent professional athlete, change attitude 1, and allow those who are not top athletes to be individuals, professional individuals, therefore, to deal with sports activities and activities not only as independent professional athletes or entrepreneurs. This position implies, if this attitude is read, that someone who is already an independent professional athlete and entrepreneur, let's say, in some games, it is possible, without previously being an independent professional athlete. We have suggested this much simpler and more liberal: "A sportsman can professionally engage in sports activities as an independent professional athlete if he is over 15 years old, if he is registered with a national sports alliance and has a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. “ This is a more comprehensive “reservoir”, from which potential professional individuals can be drawn in different sports, including sports and chess, of course, when possible, without a binding clause. However, in order to become top-notch, he must prove himself or some "bypassed" way or acting from the beginning as a man who deals individually, he can afford himself, because, finally, attitude 2 enables him to engage in sports and in a different way, and that we have a larger "reservoir" of powerful professional individuals. That's why we've submitted this amendment, in the belief that you'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52540	The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic and joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milos Aligrudic. Mr Avramovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52541	It is true, Mr. Novakovic, that I asked to be deleted in Article 13 paragraph 2. For what reason? In order not to refer to the fact that a selection of athletes who are able to deal with their own performance is done, so it is a athlete, a top athlete, not respecting these members from Articles 3 and 6) to 12), a logical question arises, since Mrs. Minister did not give an answer to my amendment to Article 3, why is it not included in this category, or at all categorisation, who can be all athletes and why there is no ordinary athlete, recreational athlete, even though you yourself said how much the Ministry did for recreational sports? You mentioned the budget, you used several terms, related to recreational sport, and you gave me an explanation that the amendment was rejected for the reason that the term "recreative athlete", whose introduction is proposed by this amendment, is not further discussed in the bill. So you denied yourself. Now, if we take this category of this member, that only a top athlete will be able to organise something on his own with the benefits that you give him, that he has no obligation to have a special room, that he has special devices, that he has a special, let's say, category of sport he deals with, the conditions of self-employed activity, given that he has to be registered... In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted you say – to make it easier for him to do so. So if we assume that he will deal without good conditions, without rights, without that individual sport, then we will conclude that he can use what he has at his disposal. Now we ask the question, what does he have available from public fields, from public devices, from any other sports opportunities, where he will act individually? When we say it individually, we mean a sportsman, so let's do chess. I'll remind you that in the variant of individual sport practice, as an independent activity reported to the agency, it can use concrete tables on Calemegdan to practice chess, that rod that serves to shake carpets, to do folds, if it's a boxer or someone else. By erasing this member and accepting amendments to Article 3, if there were a recreational athlete, you would impose a legal standard that he has an obligation to contribute as much resources as possible to the conditions for dealing with his work. That's why the law would oblige him, because he'll probably be a recreational athlete to advise, train, anything; he doesn't just have to do professional or only top-notch, as you say here, he can do it for recreational athletes, who, of course, would help him get to the best of conditions. This way you give him loose hands that he doesn't even have an object, to go out to the park field, or to have no device, or anything, and that he reported it to the agency, and that the agency reported to the Ministry that he was doing it for some other reason. So it's very important, if we're already involved in lawmaking, to help athletes, to give the framework what's minimum minimum, what they have to have if they want to deal with it, with that already being categorized that only top athletes can do it, so, the one with the X prize; not even a professional athlete, but only top-notch. I see no reason to refuse this amendment. I mean, if it were put into law, the Ministry would be more involved in helping these individuals who are planning to deal on their own, because they're going to get notices from the agencies that are faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52542	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52543	I apologize if this is in any way a delay in the debate, it's not my wish every moment to continue, but once again I point out the most polite request to read carefully, because in Article 13, which you have referred the amendment, it's not about recreational athletes, it's about professional athletes, and it's about professional athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52544	Mr. Avramovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52545	For the sake of the public, it's my duty to repay the debate if I don't understand something and if I want to get an explanation. "Special athlete", not professional, none from Article 3 of point 6 to 12), "can be professionally engaged in sports activities", it is totally fine and therefore is a top athlete and this is explained in Article 3, "and in the activities of individual sports and as an independent professional athlete". He as an independent top or professional athlete has no working conditions; then he is obliged to charge his services and thus gets those athletes who deal with sports as a form of recreation. So I'm saying, if you had the ear to adopt the amendment to Article 3, which is a recreational athlete, it's connected to this, then you'd understand me better. I'm telling you, if a professional athlete has no working conditions, because he's professionally in a club, not because he has his own gym, his own club, his own sources of income, and he's invested in sports, but he can apply to the agency and she can report it to the Ministry... Here you are saying - the performance of this article does not require any special space... If individual sport involves a ring, a special space can't be a city park. You say you don't need equipment (no equipment can be) and you don't need personnel. Maybe I misread it, don't blame me. I can understand about the staff, because he's a top athlete and a professional and he's got some awards and he's got some experience to pass on. But for equipment and for conditions where he's going to work, there's nothing prescribed, what's minimum minimum that he can do. That's what made me ask to erase the fact that no special condition is needed. There must be conditions. You would encourage these conditions by the Ministry if the amendment had been accepted, so that it could carry out its work, if it was carried out for professional reasons, not for monetary compensation or any other reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52546	Mrs. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52547	Madam Minister, we don't mind at all, we like to communicate with you and explain some things. Because it's not just our mere intention to write amendments because we're an opposition party, but we really want to improve and clarify things through this kind of intervention. Let me get back to what my colleague Avramovic was talking about. He's absolutely right. In Article 3. point 10, you have defined what a top athlete is and how that rank is obtained. Excuse me, by erasing attitude 2, as suggested by colleague Avramovic, as well as other MPs, we are making this top athlete possible... It has been explained that these results are being obtained and as they are being ranked, we have not intervened, in accordance with national categorization, in the category of top athletes. You deprive them of the possibilities, because you did not say in Article 3(10) that they are the only ones who can provide it for themselves. A colleague Avramovic asks you nicely, what will a man who is a top athlete, who is not an entrepreneur, not able to...? Because when you make a categorization and you give him these confessions, you start from the fact that they're persons like Nadja Higl, or Milorad Cavic, athletes who don't have the opportunity to provide it to themselves, are already in a situation where they now have such an opportunity... It's either a mix-up, or it's inaccurate, because it's impossible, you know, not to need special space, equipment and personnel. That's what counterpart Avramovic wanted to tell you, and I believe it was the intention of the other colleagues who submitted the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52548	Minister, Mrs Samardzic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52549	The questions you've asked and the athletes you've mentioned don't apply to the entrepreneur's athlete. So, the top athletes you were talking about are in the jurisdiction of the border sports alliances and the border sports alliances create conditions and, in that sense, continue to deal with categorization. We're talking, I repeat again, about an entrepreneur athlete. That's one big difference. For example, take an athlete who wants to run a marathon and professionally as an entrepreneur to participate in various competitions and thus earns a living; I don't think we have to limit him in law to have personnel, to have adequate working conditions, to have rooms. I think it would be quite a choke of entrepreneurship, and we, in this way, create the possibility of not having all these things and still being an entrepreneur, protecting and defending the interests of such athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52550	Thank you. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52551	I think you missed one member before that. Oh, no? Okay, thank you. Dear fellow MPs, as we have heard so far, sport is very important for the citizens of Serbia, both for young and children and for the elderly and for the people of old age. It is important also to have a law on sport for the benefit of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party's goal is to pass a law on sports, aimed at developing and improving sports in Serbia. Unfortunately, this law will not suit citizens and a large number of athletes, because I have the impression that this law wants to be put on, as the people say, paws at sports. The more politics gets into sports, the worse it gets in sports. We have submitted an amendment to Article 14, where there is talk of the retirement and disability insurance of amateur athletes. We have suggested that this Article 14 be deleted, because this article of the bill does not prescribe anything, nor does it have any effect on the rights of athletes, in terms of improving their position, only suggests that a athlete can exercise the right under a law which, without this law, regulates pension and disability insurance. The introduction of such provisions, which only refer to the application of the law, unnecessarily burdens the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52552	Thank you, Mr. Kishmarton. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 15th amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52553	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, otherwise, I use the time, as I said at the outset, an authorised representative. Madam Minister, I thought you'd accept this amendment. First of all, when it comes to this law, we have three fundamental objections. First, to favor top sports and professional sports, to be in the seal of amateur sports and other types of sports. Secondly, that this law is anti-constitutional, because it converts social property into state property. The third was a matter of funding. That's what we talked about and we'll talk about the amendments later. When it comes to this amendment to Article 15, which speaks of amateur athletes, it is here relatively, it says, "can be included in compulsory health insurance". We wanted this amendment imperatively to let us know that it had to be included in health insurance. For what? I want to explain to you with one plastic example: big clubs don't have a signed professional contract with all players, some are amateurs, they bring them to rehearsal; some are there because they're young and talented players, they include them from youthful. In the absence of players, since first team players can get hurt, they can get those amateurs involved in the first team's work and let them play a game. At that game, God forbid, one of them can get hurt, break a leg or anything. This law does not allow clubs to secure them, he says "can", so it is not imperative, but relatively relatively. So even amateur athletes must be involved in health and social security. That's what we wanted. That was our idea. I expect an active communication between you and me and to face opinions; I hope that one quality conclusion will be drawn and that you will accept this amendment, because it is in favour of amateur players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52554	The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, my colleague Mr. Pejcic has explained to you where the problem with this amendment is from one angle, and I will explain to you where the problem is from another angle and why it is not good when the provision of the law is – it can. So, you have answered us in your explanation in the following way, which is that this member of the bill is in accordance with the regulations governing compulsory health insurance. My first question, Madam Minister, is what are the regulations governing health insurance? I've been doing these things for 20 years, and I only know about one regulation, and that's the Health Insurance Act. So it's not regulations, it's one law. On the other hand, this opens up two kinds of problems. The first problem, you know, when you say something that can do something, I'll remind you of one detail from 2009. So your party colleague, the former health minister, cried out at one point that contributions to health insurance in 2009 were not paid in the amount of 84 billion dinars, and then this assembly forgave a team that did not pay mandatory health insurance. Now you see what it looks like: and when a norm is a duty for a legislator to pay, and he doesn't pay, the state forgives in the name of something. Another kind of problem is that these people can enter the status of a medically unsecured person. And those people who are employed come into the status of an unsecured person, so they return them from their homes of health without providing them with certain services. Do you know how many states are singled out on an unsecured person? In the health ministry's budget, 500 dinars are allocated over the course of one year. Now you see what this member of yours looks like. Will those 500 dinars, in the event of some medical needs, cover the costs of treating amateur athletes? He won't, nor can he. So please accept this amendment. It's gotta be a commitment. You know, you can't draw from the health insurance that someone paid to spend on someone who didn't pay. It's humane, but it's irresponsible, because then the money will disappear for whoever was paying for health insurance. That's the problem. That's why this has to change, and it has to make a commitment to pay mandatory health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52556	The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52557	The Serbian Progressive Party intends, all in the belief that it can fix the law by reducing its scope and making it clearer, to bring together several views in Article 17. I'll read how we imagined it, it seems very simple, to show the need and obligation of sports organisations to provide adequate medical and health assurance to their athletes, whether it's a belief in general health skills or a special one. How did we figure it out? “Athletes and other sports activities may be involved in the sport competition and other participants who have established general and special health skills, in accordance with the rules of the competent sports association, or the organizers of the activities.” It's done by an authorized health care facility. So, just in two terms, we summed up something that was given here in six positions. We've simplified things. In your proposal in paragraph 1, we are talking about some general health skills, in Section 2, about special, and it is already bid on deadlines that need that confidence to be fresh, we all know what it's about; it's usually six months, it might take a little bit shorter. You're also offering a three-month variant. About how often it will be, what the reviews will contain, the scope of the review, about the need for someone to go out of the way or regularly you don't elaborate here in detail, you leave two ministries to agree on it. But you're completely shutting down sports alliances. They obviously have one stalking rhythm, they know what kind of ability it takes, which confidence to betray, where it betrays; huge accumulated experience, plus communication with international associations. So they should be the bearers of that proposal. Of course, what technically looks like a review, which is taken from the vital parameters, should be done by the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Sports should mediate some laws, some segments that give binding character, which predict criminal norms if not done, etc. Otherwise, we're going to get a very dissensive member, in which everything could have been said in a simpler way. It opens up the possibility that in sublegal acts, what will be agreed by two ministers, two ministries, would create such an opportunity that may be... Especially with this last attitude where it's said that the cost of reviewing you, perhaps too often for some sports activities, is borne by a competitor, let's say, an individual we talked about. What if he's not an entrepreneur, not a rich professional, like some in individual sports? So that's going to be about other obligations later on. Perhaps this should have gone more neutrally, as we have given, and details are explained when it comes to health institutions that are competent to determine health skills. And here we have some amendment proposals, not only to alter it nomenclatureally, but also to change it in substance and ultimately bring things into order. We know that even today, especially in amateur sports, the managers of these sports organizations are able to chase doctors around health homes to seal themselves, the press, tie themselves around their necks. This has to be solved. Unfortunately, fatalities also occur due to the examination of the authority; often the examination is not even done, I am aware that it exists. This change we give absolutely does not leave the possibility that this is still happening, only in one more orderly and simple way opens the field for discussion, as well as in the next members, about who gives, how often it gives. You predicted that it would be a series of sublegal acts that would be dealt with. We were going to suggest this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52558	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52559	Dear fellow MPs, Serbia has exceptional talents for sport and it can be said that Serbia is a country of athletes. Our athletes achieve exceptional results in team and individual sports. These results are achieved thanks to the talent and hard work of athletes, in much worse conditions for training than their peers have in other countries. Many talented children remained at the level of talent, because in sports clubs, especially in amateur and small clubs, in clubs that deal with less popular sports, there were no conditions for their further development. As far as amateur sports are concerned, there is one chronic lack of money to function in these clubs. There are these little clubs in kickinda, which have good contestants who get good results, but they have problems even going to the competition. We from the Serbian Progressive Party have proposed to delete a member of this 19th law, as this article imposes a new burden on sports clubs. Article 19 introduces the obligation to provide insurance to top athletes and prescribes insurance sums. By accepting this obligation, most amateur sports would be put into a situation where these obligations cannot be fulfilled, making it impossible for top athletes to compete. Many amateur clubs barely arrive at the competition, as I said, because of the lack of money, so this member of the law would be even worsened by the financial situation of clubs, and in many amateur clubs there are top athletes, so if this member is not deleted, it will be a major imposition for sports clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52560	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Mr Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52561	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Madam Minister, we have a completely opposite view of the views of some other parties and we believe that there must be mandatory insurance of top athletes due to injuries, due to the inability to pursue a career, etc. What we wanted was to impose again an imperative obligation in the law, therefore, not to say: “It is due, ” but to say: “It is under obligation. ” We find that far more accurate. What you have stated as a reason for not accepting this amendment is simply amazing. You replied that the amendment should not be accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 45. So that was the previous amendment. The reason is that the amendment is not accepted to protect athletes. We protect athletes in one more mandatory way, to be secured, and you answer us completely the opposite. We're just trying to protect the athletes even more. Therefore, the reason for not accepting our amendment is not in line with the amendment. We're not against it, we're in favor of strengthening these things. So we protect athletes. You can't answer us this way so you don't accept the amendments. Do you people read what it says in the amendments? You can't respond to amendments like this. This is unserious. Either you haven't read or run it serially and – we won't accept it because we haven't accepted the next amendment. That's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52562	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prostred Serbia Group. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52563	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I thank you for the word given, it is not usual to talk about an amendment that becomes an integral part of the law, because it is also the purpose of the amendment to correct the law and that the government adopts the opinion of the opposition. The nature of Article 22 is such that I would look back a little on what we were talking about, in general, on the nature of the entire law and on the nature of all the amendments that we have submitted, so if I exceed the time foreseen to address the amendment, please take the time of the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52564	Mr. Rangelovic, you got the word as an authorised representative, otherwise you wouldn't have gotten the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52565	Thank you. Of course, I also thank Minister Samardzic and the Government for accepting this amendment. Of course, it is not common in normal parliamentary systems to express gratitude for the amendment, because it is the job of the opposition to make amendments, and the work of the Government and the work of the competent minister is that those amendments that improve the quality of the law or change what is not well accepted in the law. So, it's a normal job, but as it's all wrong in this Serbia and how much is wrong and in our government, we've adopted some custom that when the amendments are accepted we should express our gratitude to those who have accepted the amendment. Of course, and returning to the content of Amendment 22 is in some way an ex-post mind, I have heard some fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament do so; therefore, he has been accepted, has become an integral part of the law and is now not to be called upon to the disadvantages of that famous Article 22. I'll just look back on one more thing. Here, in the review of the amendments accepted, we also have amendments submitted by the Government. The question for all of us is what does that mean? I'd like to comment on what that means. This means that our criticisms, and what nature our criticisms were, can be seen from the stenograms when we, as authorized representatives, gave the opening word, were quite in place. The government thus sends us a message that the law is not well prepared and that the proposer himself has a problem with the bill. So, we will find, the law is not well prepared, it has many shortcomings, but we will also commend – the government was ready to respond to our call and to change what is not good in law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52566	Thank you. The word is Dr. Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52567	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I am pleased that you have had the hearing that you recognize in the amendment the interest of athletes, representatives of Serbia. What exactly is this about? It is that there are justifiable and unwarranted reasons why a athlete cannot respond at some point to a selector's call to participate in the preparations or in the team. This particular article is the 22nd and treats that question, where in Section 1. The bill says athletes are obliged to respond to preparations and participation in the team. Therefore, there are justifiable reasons and unwarranted reasons. They're justified, say, when an employer doesn't allow a competitor who works at his place to get ready. In particular, in the alliance that I run, it's happened twice already. We have preparations twice a year for 15 days, simply, employers don't care, he doesn't care about the team, he's interested in his company's interests. So we had that problem. It would be really hard to make a decision in our alliance if this athlete were sanctioned, either by abolishing a scholarship or by other privileges he has as a top athlete. That's one thing. The second thing is it's hard to say how convenient it would be to order someone to participate in the team and, therefore, what his contribution to the team would be if he did so under some force of morality. It's normal and it's normal. Finally, if it is an unwarranted refusal to participate in the team, there are sanctions, the suspension of a scholarship by the Ministry of Sports and other sanctions stemming from the border alliance to which it belongs. Besides, this member has no sanctions and no good to have them, so I'm really glad you had the hearing to accept this amendment and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52568	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Youth and Sports has also defined that this provision is put into law on the application of certain border alliances during the public debate because it was, I will say, a product of specific times when there were examples that athletes did not respond to the call of selector. Individuals who participated in a public debate from the border sports alliances considered this in some way unfair, this kind of non-response, because certain work, certain means, and budgets invested in the development of athletes and considered it fair for athletes to respond. That's why they asked the Ministry to put this standard into law. However, given that there are other kinds of motivations of athletes to participate in national recognitions and awards, as well as other types of rewards, let me say, positive motivations, we have rather defined ourselves to positively motivate athletes than sanction them, and in that sense I am grateful to all the MPs who have tabled this amendment, because in this way we really manage to fix the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52570	I thank you, too. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic, so Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52571	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply couldn't keep my mouth shut and not report to this amendment, first of all because I was so lucky this morning that I found a few billboards that were incredibly striking and that showed me that what you wrote in this article 22 was a state of some sort, apparently, a nation or at least those who would try to be a conscience of a nation, it's quite clear to me. So, it's clear to me that the border alliances were looking for a provision like this, because I've followed in the media a lot of top athletes who don't respond, who don't have any patriotism, which shows that work and investment funds aren't the only way we can motivate our athletes to perform for the country. I am someone who spent 18 years in education, so I have to ask a question – and how do we raise it, what ideals, what are our school programs on which we train our young, my children to participate in some presentation of their country? Is that right? And today, I told you, I got an answer. One billboard of a university in the country, Megatrenda, reads like this – what are you going to do here, end Megatrend and burn. So, why would anyone... Otherwise, the Minister of Education officially, today, the former, current minister, before this change of government members, and even now, he was the dean of that university and professor, I'm not sure he's a dean today. I have to ask if it's possible for someone to advertise their university this way and is it possible that we continue to raise our young, at a time when 30% of our young, college-educated, leave the country, ask athletes to be obliged to perform for the country, punish them or motivate them in another way, and then we tell them – finish what you're going to do here, burn them? I can't help but talk about this, because I think this is something I need to talk about and talk about a lot. This is a question we have asked many times from the Democratic Party of Serbia – how do we raise and who raise our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52572	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52573	Madam Minister, we are now in one situation, and you will agree with this argument, that there is something missing in article 22. In fact, you said how it all started, when you were making the law, they asked you to, and they explained why. That's what I'm hearing for the first time now, because you were responding, and then you resorted to some compromise, I don't know why, to accept the amendment, not the SRS, because they are tied up (so I asked my colleague Novakovic to finish this story, this continent,), fellow colleagues Bojan Mladenovic and later Srdjan Myaljevic. So we're putting in a college provision. We had it in mind, you know. They can, and they don't have to. Here, you will admit that such situations have occurred in the past. They can happen in the future. Our top athletes playing in trophy clubs across Europe are also true Serbian patriots and can happen to be invited by a football team selector, say, Mr. Nemanja Vidic, to play for the team at any competition or friendly game. We now, by accepting this amendment, have no category of preparation at all. You've seen it yourself, now it's kind of empty. You could rephrase it, so you could put these two we have on it. Later, you'll be safe through your changes and additions... You'll see, the reactions of these border organizations will be just like that. So they don't have to, but I can. As I said, the selector can invite him; he has important games in a trophy club where he plays (or someone else) and doesn't join the preparations of the team, it's been happening before, but he has great physical and any other readiness and can come a day before the end or at the game itself, it's the selector's decision again. Now, according to this here, we have no preparation at all, because by erasing this first attitude, there is no preparation, but only participation in the game, or sports event. What I want, here I am now finishing up, to take advantage of, since you were in Kragujevac some time ago, I want to be harshly dissuasive, as an MP and board member of the Kragujevac City Assembly, because a project for the eastern tribune of the Chik Daca Stadium has not been accepted. You've come to see how the preparations are going and the work around the closed pool. However, I must tell you, your party is part of the coalition government, along with Mr. Stevanović, in Kragujevac, there is great disdain for my fellow citizens because both locker rooms and reflectors and an auxiliary stadium in the 21st century, which is made of gravel, is in terrible condition. You should have accepted this project, that the state participates with 50, and the city with 50%, as you did for the closed pool. I don't think that's right, since that stadium started rebuilding a few years ago, you know when it was built, and this picture there today is ugly, and the project was... Regardless of our strong opposition to Stevanovic's authority, our Serbian Radical Party still wants good for that sports society and for the whole city at all. And, I don't know for what reasons, probably because he's with you in the coalition, so he has to keep his mouth shut. We from the Serbian Radical Party don't have to. Now I'm openly telling you that the Kragujevci are very unhappy about it. Which are the reasons, whether financial resources or whatever it is, but still, it's a big city and it's a serious project that has to be completed once. Later, when we get to some other members, we will also discuss the reconstruction and restoration of the Belgrade stadium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52574	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason why we have finally defined ourselves to accept these amendments that do not provide for preparation was stated by MP Pelevic and I would not repeat. It's about some athletes not being able to respond to the preparations. That's why we've defined ourselves. Apropo Kragujevaca, the reason why we defined ourselves for the pool was because it had to be decided, because of the funds, between "Chica Dace" and the closed pool. We have seen a feasibility study in which a huge number of Kragujevac citizens have been identified as being too high-priority for the pool. I'm sorry that the stadium, although it's fixed in the meantime and hosted some regional competitions, still cannot host bigger competitions because of its infrastructure. I'll tell you that, for one thing, we're aware of the problems that exist there. We're trying in the lake hall, and it's over, to get the dressing rooms ready. Also, there we built an elevator for people with special needs, athletes with disabilities, etc. But more important than anything else, I will not speak any further about the Kragujevac, what the Ministry has done, and it has done enough – the matter is in debt. These same citizens of Kragujevac should be in charge and perhaps their children should pay debts for the Chika Daca stadium, they should be able to set priorities tomorrow within this state aid to the construction industry. I think the smartest thing is, when the funds are limited, is to choose one priority. According to my knowledge, with all due respect to your knowledge, there is, under number one, a feasibility study, which sets out priorities on behalf of the citizens of Kragujevac. I think over 90% of Kragujevac citizens have declared that priority number one is the pool. In that sense, we defined ourselves as a pool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52576	Thank you. He's got Miss Jovanovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52577	I must rephrase to you, Madam Minister, because the promise of the coalition in Kragujevac, Mr Stevanović and your party is either – and the closed pool and stadium "Chika Daca". The city is otherwise over-indebted, you are well informed about this, both for some projects and for spending budgets that do not contribute to the citizens of Kragujevac. As far as the feasibility study is concerned, I never had it in front of me as a city councilman, and no one did any research. As you know, you cannot question 100% of Kragujevci citizens. I could go in now, but I don't want to narrow it down to a local story... It's still a big sports facility, and it's a city stadium, not to mention these other guys who are in terrible shape. In any case, the citizens have been deceived. They were expecting each other. In terms of definition, I don't know if there was such a thing. I live there every day in contact with my fellow citizens and those who expected it to be fulfilled pre-election and then every other promise made by the mayor and the coalition in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52578	The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52579	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I have reported on Mr. Rangelovic's amendment. Since you accepted that amendment, I will comment on certain matters as an authorised representative. In fact, when I was younger, since I was actively involved in sports, I couldn't wait to get a call from the team, since I was in younger categories, wearing our country's uniform. Now things have changed. We have a situation that in some parts of Serbia, certain groups are rooting against the Serbian team, for other teams. How do you think only athletes from those parts of Serbia, if invited, will they participate in the team, how will they play? Well, they won't be motivated. Madam Minister, it is good that you accepted Mr. Rangelovic's amendment for these reasons that I have stated. I would add that we need a comprehensive education on patriotism from the very family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52580	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52581	Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 to replace the words "they are obliged to" with the words "for free will". Now I see that this first attitude is completely wiped out, but I really think it should stay, just to be a little bit bit more rephrased. So athletes have the free will to decide when and how much they will participate in the work and in the performances for the team. Otherwise, various types of coercion may occur, even endangering health. When a athlete doesn't feel ready or unhealthy enough, he has to perform. It's not just physical health, it could be some kind of family accident, so he's not emotionally willing to participate, and physically he is. Some selector, or I don't know who, will make him participate. It is assumed that every top athlete is honored to play for his team and represent his country in what is best, so no further conditions should be required, but they should be further motivated, just as you said. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that there should be this position, but reformed, because this is still a roof law in the field of sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52582	I thank you, too. Since we have exhausted our discussions on Article 22, afternoon, after a break of one hour, we will continue our work at 1510 hours by amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52583	We continue our work, honourable Members of the people. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slavisa Zlatanovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Slavisa Zlatanovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I expect him to join us. Here you go. We're moving on to Article 23. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52584	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make suggestions from the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians regarding the proposal for a law on sport, which we consider extremely important. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that I will speak as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, and this time I will use the time and I will talk about all the amendments that we have submitted. We MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union have submitted several amendments to the proposal for a law on sports. Among other things, we suggest that Article 23. The bill after the word "high" adds the words "or more". This article is about sports experts and their professional preparation. We think it is necessary to add more education, because in our education system until two years ago it existed. Sports experts have mostly educated in higher coaching schools that lasted two years. According to this proposal, professional training in higher schools that lasted two years has been abandoned. It is also necessary to study what is considered sports high schools, or sports high schools, whether they have trained staff for professional work in sport or only for organizational work in sport. The following amendment, which we have, relates to Article 29 paragraph 3: "Sports expert, i.e. expert in sport which deals with professional work as a member of a sports association without compensation, must have a signed volunteering contract and, in that case, have the rights set out in the contract, sports rules and general acts of the sports association. “ There is an emphasis here on having to have a signed contract. We believe that it is necessary for each sports expert to have a signed contract of work, but also in the event that there is a written contract for volunteering, which regulates the obligations of sports organisations towards a sports expert, as well as the obligations of a sports expert in relation to a sports organisation and athletes. There is a need for a written trail of a sports organisation management body from which the obligations of a sports expert are visible. These are just some of the amendments of the Ambassadors of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. We hope that you will accept them, as well as that MPs of all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of these amendments. Since I did not speak in the debate in principle, let me now, as an authorised representative, make basic remarks and praises regarding the proposal for a law on sports. We believe that the global bill is good, because we need a comprehensive law, but we must stress that unfortunately, we cannot be satisfied with all the proposed solutions. It is extremely important that the achievement of sporting activities and sporting activities, as well as the role of all public authorities, be in line with the ratified conventions in the field of sports: the European Code of Sports Ethics, the European Sports Charter, the European Sports Charter for All and the European Urban Charter of the Council of Europe. It is good that now we will have a pyramidal structure of sport with a clear definition of jurisdiction, rights, obligations and responsibilities, depending on the appropriate level. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians also welcomes the decentralisation of certain state functions in the field of sport. We consider close co-operation with sports organisations, as well as ensuring autonomy of the sport movement. To this end, it is important to support the development of a spirit of volunteering and mobility in sport, which we find extremely important. The bill sets out a liberal and simple system for the establishment of a sports association. The Association of Sports shall be established by signing the founding act and the statutes and election, i.e. the appointment of a person authorised to represent. What is still good is that there is no legal person without appointment, and so does the bill. A sports association can obtain funds from contributions, membership fees, etc., and this is extremely important. It is prescribed that sports organisations, territorial border alliances, independent professional athletes and professional associations in a particular branch of sport can, in order to regulate issues of common interest, joint representation, join in border sports alliances for one or more sport branches. In addition, sports organisations, sports alliances and other legal and natural persons can establish other voluntary non-profit associations in order to achieve common goals and interests in the field of sport. We find that extremely important and good. Now allow me to ask some questions, perhaps not directly to you, but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regarding the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and I also have one question about the reconstruction of some football stadiums. These two topics concern sports, and I'm interested in your opinion on these topics. In fact, news has been released in some media a while ago that the reconstruction of stadiums according to UEFA standards is beginning. That was in December. It said several cities in Serbia will be reconstructed next year, which will meet standards prescribed by the UEFA, thus allowing international competitions to be held outside Belgrade. Environment and spatial planning Minister Oliver Dulic said that around two billion dinars will be spent on this purpose. Stadiums are being reconstructed in Nis, Užica, Chačka, Kruševec and Novi Pazar, which we support, which is positive. I wonder if and when stadiums will be reconstructed in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? I believe that, for example, the football club "Spartak" from Saturday deserves it; they played in the UEFA Cup, they first deserve to be reconstructed the stadium without mentioning the geographical position of our city, Subotica. Why isn't it, isn't there a city, more accurate club, in Vojvodina doesn't deserve that? All of this is financed from the state budget. As far as the second subject is concerned, the bill states, which is very good, that an autonomous province through its authorities, in accordance with the law, provides for the achievement of the needs and interests of citizens in the field of sport in the territory of the autonomous province; it regulates and maintains records of importance for an autonomous province; it determines sports facilities of importance for an autonomous province; it provides conditions for work, i.e. to carry out the work of a rural sports office and other sports organisations whose founder is an autonomous province. Furthermore, it determines which regional sports alliances meet the needs and interests of citizens in the territory of an autonomous province when several rural border sports alliances are registered in a sport branch and determine which sports branches are of particular importance for an autonomous province; it regulates closer conditions for the use of public sports courts in the territory of the Autonomous province; it is supervised by inspection of the implementation of this law in the territory of the Autonomous Province; it runs a register of circuit sports alliances, which is extremely important and good. But the question is, how will the AP Vojvodina achieve all this? We of the Union of Duchy Hungarians hope that, for the start, this law will bring about an AP Vojvodina strategy in terms of sport, more specifically from 2011 to 2015. What's it got to do? Complete the arrangement of the functioning of the province's border alliances on all issues that are relevant to their work; create conditions for achieving the best working conditions for both the province's border alliances and clubs that are bearers of quality sport at the level of the AP Vojvodina; establish and complete the functioning of the sports system at the level of the AP Vojvodina. The question is, of which money will all this be financed, how does Vojvodina respect all these obligations? When will the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina finally be passed? Why don't we have him, when he'll finally meet us and we'll adopt him? Unfortunately, neither the public property law nor the restitution was passed. Serbia is still the only country where neither local self-government nor autonomous provinces have their own property. Due to all of this, it is very difficult for the AP Vojvodina to fulfil its obligations, to function, to really take over its law-guaranteed jurisdiction. It's very difficult, when almost the only sources of its operation are republican sources, which either it has or it doesn't have. Finally, to get back to the agenda, I hope that there will be real decentralisation and that by passing this law on sports, we will improve sports in our country. We will support this law, and now I urge you to reconsider our amendments and accept them, if possible. Of course, I expect your answers, or your opinions on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52585	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Toolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic has submitted an amendment to Article 23(2) to delete the word "high" after the word "responsible. The amendment is about similar to the amendment tabled by fellow Members of the Minority Group, with them proposing that a higher expert prepares be added. We've been specific, so this is deleted, so this member of the law would practically say that persons who have the right education... I suppose, Madam Minister, that Mr. Atanasov participated with you in making this bill and that, as top athlete and sportsman, he will understand what I want to talk about when I explain this amendment. We have a lot of people who are sports experts, who have not completed adequately high or higher education. I can give you an example: not only does education not mean, but even if someone was a top athlete, it doesn't necessarily mean he'll be a good coach and he'll know that he's right to pass knowledge on to his students. Given that there must be a large number of people in that category now over 40 years old, I think that in some ways they would be deprived of the team’s work and that we would give up the service of such people. Here's an example that this is not crucial: Miljan Miljanić graduated from high school, he wasn't much of a top player, but he achieved impressive results. Here, we also have here in the Assembly now selector Filip Stojanovic, who has achieved outstanding results at the parliamentary games with our selection. We brought a silver medal, which, I think, is for every commendation, regardless of what I wanted to give you here a little criticism, to you as the Sports Ministry, because we went pretty unprepared there; I hope we'll make it right in some future period. I think you could still have reason to accept this amendment and thus improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52587	National MP Miljan Rangelovic has a word. You're giving up? Thank you. Parliamentarians Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 24th amendment. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52588	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, in this part of the law relating to other natural persons in the system of sports, talk about sports experts, how to acquire calling, promotions, etc. You have provided for this member of the law to do so exclusively by the minister. We don't think that's good. We think we should also include the Department of Sports and Medical Sports, as a professional institution that should deal with, among other things, and these things, and we've foreseen this later in the article, I think, 107, when it comes to the Institute of Sports and Sports Medicine. If they're not involved in these things, the question is, apart from those things, what do we need this sports and sports medicine department for anyway? They're supposed to be dealing with these things, so on their proposal, you're setting out that nomenclature for calling and improving sports experts. I think it would be okay because it doesn't change the essence of the law. So, it's not, as you've answered in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the law is more precise. No, this is more specific, having a professional body behind you to deal with. Within that body there are experts dealing with this type of problem and it is normal for them to participate in something that is gaining calling and improving workers in sport.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52589	The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Borislav Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52590	Madam President, Madam Minister, the amendment also wanted to help higher education institutions, to protect them and protect all graduates of high-school sports and sports schools. I also wanted to help Mrs. Minister because if a member like this were to be accepted, Article 2 would bring Mrs. Secretary a lot of work. What's the point of this amendment? We propose that the Ministry adopts a regulation on the nomenclature of sports professions and titles and rules on the right to professional work in sport, establishing typical jobs for certain sports professions and callings and conditions in terms of education, i.e. professional skills to acquire calling, as well as the rights and obligations of sports experts and criteria and how to obtain work permits, i.e. sports licenses. If these two regulations were passed, they would really arrange this area that is very important for sport, as far as sports experts are concerned, getting sports titles and practically defining those experts who can qualify to work in sport. Without entering into the law the obligation to bring these two regulations all in this area could be interpreted very freely, as well as the way of obtaining licences to work in sports organisations and different ways of granting work permits, or licences. If these rules are not adopted, it is not possible to systematically introduce order into the field of sport, but rather to maintain the existing situation in this part of sport that is quite chaotic. There are many free interpretations, and there is also very often unprofessional work, undereducated experts, or coaches in various sports branches. If these rules were passed, it would not happen that graduates of high-school sports and sports schools would be practically without the right to work in sports organisations and that their posts would be taken by those experts who finish courses in border alliances and get licenses. I don't think that's good. After all, it is also a question of the Law on Higher Education, but also a question for this ministry. Otherwise, why would we have sports colleges and high school sports institutions? It is clear that many border alliances, but many individuals in them too, want to remain the status quo, which they very often abuse. The above-mentioned rules have already been made in your ministry, Madam Minister, and the drafting of these regulations has been attended by distinguished experts from the field of sport, but unfortunately they have not been brought in. I suppose, and other experts assume, it's about the narrow interests of individual border alliances. If I'm wrong, you correct me. Anyway, if these rules were passed, I think you'd make it easier for yourself to work, but it would also prevent discrimination against students who ended up high school institutions in the field of sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52591	Thank you. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52592	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is just an opportunity, when you mentioned that truth that rules were made in the Ministry, to say that the regulation on the nomenclature of sports professions was brought in and published in the "Official Messenger". As for the popularly called licensing rules, or rules on the right to professional work in sport, it is over and awaiting the adoption of a new law, that is, this law on sport. If he is elected and effective in the congregation, we have already prepared sublegal acts, including this one. One of the reasons we have not accepted this amendment is that it may essentially only redefine a little of what we have predicted and what is still in progress. I'm glad you brought up the fate of students whose right to professional work and we wanted through this law to raise awareness and defend ourselves. This is, among other things, the reason why we have not accepted the amendments previously considered, whether to put higher education or higher, or to completely delete the obligation for highly educated experts to be precisely defined. We also insisted on this because the law stipulates that people who have great experience in sports and have a license and do not have formal education do not have to have it to work with the highest selections, because there is a need for experience. However, the law provides, and that is why we have not accepted your amendments, that children work exclusively the most educated personnel in the country, who, in addition to sports experience, have other elements that learn four years in college. Simply, children and school sports in Serbia deserve the country's greatest care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52593	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 26, paragraph 4, in the proposed law, says: “The competent national border sports alliance in co-operation with the higher education institution issues, renews and withdraws the authorisation for the work of sports experts in accordance with this law, the rules of the association and the rules of the international sports union, and keeps records of issued, renewed or withdrawn work permits. “ Our proposal is to delete the words “in collaboration with a higher education institution. ” Also, paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 are deleted, given that we consider that they are not in line with our position and opinion. The demarcation of the word "in co-operation with a higher education institution" in point 4 is proposed because the regulation of such an obligation of sports alliances is devoid of any sense, given that issuing licences is the original jurisdiction of the sports union, which they establish by their rules in accordance with international Federation rules. The provision on co-operation with higher education institutions is extremely vague and subject to arbitrary interpretation, which is unacceptable from the point of view of the principle of legal certainty. That's the first part. Items 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 are unnecessary, as they involve the legislator in the mutual relations between a sports expert and his organisation, which regulates the rules of a sports organisation, general regulations and contracts. Regulation of the obligation of the Ministry to agree on the costs of issuing and extending the importance of the work permit is legally unfounded because it is not a matter of entrusted tasks of the State Administration; it is the jurisdiction of the Sports Federation, which is most often regulated and binding rules of the international Federation. Article 11 should also be deleted, as the issue of discrimination is governed by the relevant law, so there is no need to regulate it by this law, and it is not possible to determine from the content of this article what discrimination could be made up of. If such a principle were to be adopted, any member of any law governing certain rights should be subject to a special provision prohibiting discrimination, which would significantly burden the text of this law. We felt that this should be respected, given that the explanation was clear enough, and you rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52595	The 27th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52596	We ask that attitude 1 be changed and read as follows: "The training activities for performing certain professional activities in sport can be performed by higher education institutions, national sports alliances, professional sports associations and other legal entities that meet the conditions of space, professional staff and equipment prescribed by the Ministry or competent international sports Federations. “ We suggest that attitudes 2, 3 and 4 be deleted. In paragraph 2, the words ‘St. 2 and 3’ are replaced by the words ‘St. 1’, or what I just read.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52597	The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52598	I guess I'm late for reporting. We asked for article 29 to be deleted. In our explanation, we say that it is completely (and we are behind it) unnecessary, because it only refers to the application of other laws and regulations, as well as rules of sport organisations and contracts, which even without these provisions regulate party relations. In addition, they try to impose restrictions on the application of some of these rules, which is not acceptable from the point of view of the right, especially if it limits the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. I think this is clear enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52599	The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond and Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of ours regarding Article 30(3) is something we started when we talked about Article 3. In fact, we understand that you are here in Article 3. 21) and 22) explain nicely what a sports inspector does, and what a professional sports overseer does; we still think it is very possible for a man to do the whole work. We gave him the post of professional sports inspector. Why do we think that? It's simple, because we did analogy with the school inspector. The school inspector has a certain education, if we take it from the biology field, but he's also an expert in reviewing the documentation on this. Someone with a high sports calling, who has experience, who has sports skills is very easy to follow the documentation of laws, sublegal acts and the like, because it's in matter, like some other people who are interested in that area, and they're not high sports officials or anything. It seems to me that it is a build-up of administration: you have one group of people, who will only work on papers and other groups of people, who will only work on professional supervision of sports workers. I don't think at this point this country and this society are capable of handling it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52601	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 30th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. A proposal for a sports law. Article 33 refers to sports activities and activities. It is stated in point 4(1) that, among other things, it is necessary for a sports organisation to have adequate internal organisation and financial resources if it participates in sport competitions. The amendment proposes that this point be changed and that it be said – adequate internal organisation, financial resources, sports equipment and props, for the immediate and competitive process. We have submitted this amendment because we in the SRS felt that one of the sports organisations that does not have a competitive cycle in one competitive season, but only the current one, cannot function without an internal organisation, financial resources and adequate equipment and props. It happens that individual clubs in one competition season don't participate in the competition, they need to bridge that one season or maybe more, so they can regain the conditions to compete. In order to do that, they need to train on a continuous basis. That's why we filed this amendment. The reasons for not accepting the amendments show that there is a misunderstanding, because the essence of this amendment is not to define the conditions regarding sports equipment and props, but rather to the period when the sports organisation does not have a competitive but only an immediate process. The objective of this amendment is to improve the text of the law and I think it is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52603	The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52604	Dear Madam Ministers, the Prosperity Group Advanced Serbia's SNS has proposed to delete attitude 3, which reads: "The word, the club can be used in the name of only sports organisations participating in competitions within the relevant border sports alliance. “ We don’t think it’s a good solution because there are sports that don’t compete, clubs in some sports don’t compete. Does that mean we have to take away their club name? In addition, some sports clubs that compete in some period have no competition, do not compete for various reasons. Does this mean that they have to be renamed or simply deleted? I don't think that's a good solution, especially because today it's allowed in our system to use the word "club" for many other institutions, organizations, etc. We have nightclubs, unfortunately, etc. But I don't think the word "club" can be used in sports only for those clubs and only for those sports branches that have their own competition. I think that's an understandable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52605	The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52606	As in many other members of this law, unfortunately, solutions already established by other laws appear. This is about the solution contained in the Law on Associations, Procedures and Conditions for the Establishment of Associations are regulated by the existing Law on Associations. A particular confusion also creates the fact that there are certain conditions here for the establishment of an association, and that is not good, with minor changes that are not quite clear, which will certainly lead to ambiguity in the application of both laws. This law also prescribes additional conditions for the establishment of an association, which is contrary to Article 18. The Constitution which requires that human rights be applied directly and that the way they are implemented can only be prescribed when the Constitution explicitly provides for it. The practice of the writer of this bill was to convince the views contained in those laws that had already been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52607	The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52608	This is where I reacted, dear Madam Minister, just because the state is getting too involved in autonomy and in the work of sports associations. The state, or in this case the Ministry, cannot prescribe the amount of membership that individual clubs prescribe for their members. That's not good. The State does not, of course, interfere with neither the prices of commercial services nor the prices of goods, nor the prices of services, etc., so that it is not appropriate, and it is not, after all, allowed for the state to prescribe membership fees in individual clubs. Some clubs only live on that membership fee, and if that's limited, they won't be able to exist. I know that in that article in the last position you prescribed that if it comes to high-cost clubs, you as a minister can also prescribe a higher membership rate than that specified by this member of the law, but in principle this is not good, because it shows that the state really interferes with the autonomous work of sports associations, sports clubs, or sports alliances. I think it would be a good idea for this member to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52609	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52610	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is an opportunity to say that the fact that previous members have explained some of the elements in the registration and regulated perhaps something that is known in other laws, but it is more precise as regards the sport itself, we have certainly not done it because we are possibly bored at the Ministry or because we have no other business, but because there really is an objective need, which has been shown in practice. You have the happiness or satisfaction that your alliance is working properly and I am very pleased that it is so, perhaps because his leadership has the awareness of the overall legislative regulation, however, a large number of practical problems that the Youth and Sports Ministry faces on a daily basis lies precisely in the fact that the statutes are not sufficiently elaborated and that all these registration documents are not sufficiently detailed, em not applied. That's why we had to repeat in the law maybe something that exists in other laws, but first of all, to specify in favour of the functioning of clubs and sports. I will tell you that it often happens that final accounts do not adopt congregations in the statutes, which would be democratically justified and what is necessary, but is happening, unfortunately, that neither the delegate system within the framework of the establishment of the assembly is as precise as it should be. After all, it happens that there is a possibility in the statute that sometimes the president of the club or the board of directors will adopt the final account. That's why we've defined ourselves... I repeat again, this is not the case in your alliance, for your happiness and my pleasure, but in some other sports believe me that it is, and that is why we have defined ourselves for more detailed regulation. Apropo's issues of average earnings, i.e. the issue of restricting membership, you saw that it was one-tenth of the average earnings in Serbia. You're saying it's mixing the state into autonomy in sports. I deeply disagree, because during the public debate, which I personally participated in and which we had the opportunity to lead across Serbia and many cities, such a commitment in the law was the most welcomed by parents. In some ways, sport has become a privilege of rich people and parents feel it is very celibate to limit membership fees in clubs. The clubs themselves, except we have a single-sport case, it's a diving sport, which is very expensive... The clubs themselves didn't ask a particular question or object to this definition in law. Unfortunately, or fortunately, as I said, at this point, one tenth of the average profit is about three thousand dinars, a membership fee, and in my opinion, it's quite a decent provision. If someone wants to help their club, they can make a donation, if they have funds, as a parent, or as a member of a club, for that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52611	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52612	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, you must note that we Leskovci are stronger here in Parliament today – a new MP from Leskovec has arrived and I welcome him this time. So, when it comes to this member of the law, I think you should have accepted this amendment by your colleagues from Advanced Serbia and the amendment by Miss Lidija Vukicevic. As a reason, I'd like to give you a case from practice. So I'm aware of what you wanted to accomplish with this, but in practice it's quite different. We have local environments, like Leskovec, where you participate in government, where local self-government for sport, and there are over 140 clubs, has singled out only 20,000,000 dinars. So, in words, twenty million dinars, even though we had the Secretary of State for Sports, twenty million dinars. And I am the mayor's office – 46,000,000 dinars. Now, you explain to me how these 140 clubs are going to be funded if they don't have membership fees, if local self-government doesn't pay and service out of the budget what they need, which is that they can compete with younger categories, pay for studies, pay for delegates? I can't do it any other way, unless they collect membership fees. That's why I think the state here intervened in an inappropriate way, that state, that. You as a minister representing the Government must adequately respond to the needs of these small clubs, which will be extinguished if they do not have donations, or if they do not have membership fees paid by club members. That's about what colleagues wanted on the one hand and on the other hand to write in this amendment, and you didn't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52613	Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52614	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to ask you, if you have two children and if the minimum membership fee is three times two, it means six thousand dinars a month, you think parents should be more single, if I understand correctly? Okay, thank you. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52615	Mr. Pejcic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52616	We didn't get along. So I think local self-government needs to allocate more resources, and you need to find a mechanism in the law how these clubs are financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52617	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52618	It's about the same subject. So, counterpart Lidija Vukicevic submitted an amendment to Article 38 that neither the state through the law nor the club through the statutes can determine the level of membership because the value of some work changes with the fact that in a certain way the very unstable economic situation in the country is changing. In some periods, you remember some periods, not only changing from day to day, but changing from hour to hour. What's that supposed to mean? That someone is going to make new regulations every day, a new regulation in their clubs, or that they might even change their statutes so that they can prescribe a certain amount of membership? So, excessive national interventionism in sports relations goes so far that in this proposal, the law on sport prescribes a limit on the level of membership in a sports organisation, which is nowhere in the world and represents an inadmissible interference of the state in the work and financing of clubs. Since the state doesn't prescribe the price of living supplies, or tickets, for example, theatres or cinemas, tickets to sports events, we don't see any reason why it can prescribe membership heights where someone trains. So it's a particular market. Every club, according to something, forms its own membership price. Some clubs have very strong coaches; some clubs have coaches from a certain sport that have been experienced for 40 years; some coaches have achieved results where they prepare, "make" representatives, and some club has just opened up, there is a year, two, three days. So, according to something, that price is forming. The market is free, if you find it expensive... I understand what you want, but there are clubs where only enthusiasts work and the only way to finance membership. If you take away or reduce this possibility, you automatically close clubs. So you're automatically shutting them down. So if someone wants to train where it's cheaper, no problem, go where it's cheaper. Someone who can pay and wants quality will go where there is a certain quality. It's simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52619	The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52620	Madam Minister, I do not understand why Article 39(1) states: “The provisions of the General Act of the Sports Association are subject to the assessment of constitutionality and legality in accordance with the Constitution and the law. ” The assessment of the constitutionality and legality of each general act and the fact of the Constitutional Court's decisions are already regulated by the Constitution and, of course, by the Constitutional Court Act, so there is no room for one such position. In this case, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the assessment of legality and constitutionality is governed by the whole of the Constitution, without the possibility of this issue being regulated by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52621	The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52622	Fellow Members of the People, on behalf of the SNS, we have tried in our amendments to this legislative proposal to make the law acceptable to citizens and athletes. This bill should suffer major changes, according to a number of amendments the MPs have submitted to this law. The aim of our amendments is to improve this legislative proposal, to make the law acceptable and easier to apply in practice. The Serbian Progressive Party has submitted nearly a hundred amendments to the proposal for a law on sport. This shows that we are very interested in Serbia getting a law on sports according to our citizens and athletes. Our goal is to develop amateur and professional sports. In particular, it is an important school sport to include more children and youth in a healthy sports life. There is a problem in school sport in Serbia due to lack of equipment, space and props. This must change, in order to preserve and improve children's health, because there is no healthy people if there are no healthy children. Many members of this law are unnecessary because they only increase the scope of the law and do not solve anything that has not already been settled by other laws. That is why a member of the 40th is unnecessary, because what this member solves is already resolved by the Law on Liabilities, General Commercial Regulations and the Law on Associations. That's why I suggest that a member of this 40th law be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52623	The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52624	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the amendment of the Prosperity Group to Serbia's SNS refers to the erasure of Article 47. A proposal for a sports law. This, for us in question, member of 47 defines membership in sports associations and as such, except for the volume, according to counterpart Poscurica, does not bring any other quality to this sport law proposal. Before putting up with this, but other amendments, I tried to get information. I have read the Sport Act in detail, but also other laws, including the Associations Act, which is clearly stated, I will quote you Article 19. The Law on Associations: “Any person may, under the same conditions, become a member of the association. A natural person may be a member of an association independent of years of age, in accordance with this law and statute. A statement of accession, i.e. joining an association for a minor up to 14 years of life, is given by his legal representative in accordance with the law... The statements referred to in Article 3 shall contain a certificate of approval, in accordance with the law. The Association shall keep records of its members." End of quote and end of article 19. Why did I read this to you? Because the procedure and conditions for the establishment of an association are fully governed by this Association Act, so I do not believe that there is any excuse for the same issues to be governed by some specific law, or law on sport. The company of Article 47. Proposal for a law on sport and Article 19. The Law on Associations shows that the definition of membership in sports organisations in this Proposal for a Law on Sports is made up of provisions which are essentially identical to the relevant provisions of the Law on Associations, except that these provisions in this proposal are confident with minor changes, which are not quite clear, which will lead to some uncertainty in the application of both of these laws, which is already being told to you by a respected colleague, Pelevic. In order for sports associations to be established and registered in the future under the same general conditions as prescribed for all associations, I urge you to accept this amendment by the Serbian Progressive Parties and delete Article 47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52625	The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin to Article 47. Mr. Prelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only briefly, the Serbian Radical Party believes that the word "book" should be changed in this article with the word "record". We think that in any prescribed form you can keep track of members, whether in writing or in electronic form. I think the amendment is quite logical and you can accept it. Madam Chairman, I'm interested, if we can hear, how many MPs have more time?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52627	Twelve more minutes. The authorised representative has three and a half minutes left. The 48th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52628	I thank you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 48 is related to Article 47, which colleagues Babic and Mr Pelevic spoke of, so the explanation is also relatively similar. Article 48 speaks of who can become a member of the association and how long the notice is due. We believe that this Article 48 should be deleted because the terms and procedures of membership in the association should only be prescribed by the acts of the association. The legal regulation of the conditions for the membership of members limits the freedom of association, which is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and international law, because that freedom also includes the right to self-edit these issues. The regulation of such conditions is also controversial from the point of view of Article 18. The Constitution, which has already been cited here, which requires that human rights be applied directly and that the way can only be prescribed when the Constitution explicitly provides for it. Independently, these issues are fully regulated by the Association Act, so there is no excuse for the same issues being regulated by this law. The additional problem is the fact that it is made up of provisions which are essentially identical to the relevant provisions of the Association Act, only those provisions are certain with minor changes, which are not quite clear, which will certainly lead to ambiguity in the application of both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52629	The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The 60th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The 63rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52630	Madam President, Mr. Minister, you've rested a little. To continue, Article 63(1) states: “Sports associations are registered in a register run by the Agency for Business Registers, as a trusted business. “ Our amendment was prescribed by the following: “Sports associations are registered in a register run by the ministry responsible for sport. The Ministry shall arrange the way in which the register is kept. The registration of sports associations in the register shall be subject to the law governing associations." The registration of sports associations in the register of the Ministry of Sports is quite natural when it comes to this area. I don't see any reason for sports associations to register, or register with the Agency for the Business Register, when the same data already has the Ministry of Sports for all sports organisations. This means two registers are kept at the same time, because, as regulated by Article 68. The proposal, the Sports Ministry also runs a register like this. This requires higher costs and a corresponding number of new employees. It also imposes a registration procedure for sports organisations in the Agency, which creates additional costs for clubs. The free appraisal of some sports experts, including myself, is that it will burden the clubs with hundreds of millions of dinars, which is a completely unnecessary cost, especially in this financial situation where our country is. I don't think this is that important, and I think it's very important that the register is run by the Ministry of Sports, not that the register of sports associations is run by the Agency for Economic Registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52631	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52632	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I thank you warmly for the trust you're showing this to the Ministry, which could run the register. However, I must remind you that you just referred to the Law on Associations of Citizens, and according to that law, the Agency for Business Registers is running the Association Register, so I'm not sure, in fact, which is your law... whether or not you want us to comply with the Law on Citizens' Associations. That's one. Two, there was a talk just now about doubling bureaucracy, or not. We thought that those who already do similar jobs should continue to do similar jobs, more specifically that the Agency for Business Registers is doing what it does, which is the new Law on Associations. Why am I saying this? We have this situation that sometimes, to my great dissatisfaction and regret clubs, late on registration, but that's because in the ministry for some 18,000 clubs work a total of three employed lawyers on registration. Sometimes that leads to lateness. If it is predicted, and is predicted that the Ministry is overseeing, that these same lawyers are actually reviewing all programmes, regular programmes, scholarships, camps, national recognitions, rewards, then looking at the good administration of budget funds tomorrow, doing sublegal acts and verifying the application of these sublegal acts, together with the secretary and assistant minister in the Ministry for this part, let's say, for sport, for a total of 11 employees, we felt it was complete, in order to speed up the process of registration of clubs and to respect the regulation of the Republic of Serbia (as I said, according to the Associations Act, already done by the Agency for Business Registers), that it is done by the Agency, which has more and which we hope that it works even faster and more effectively than the Ministry does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52633	Mr. Pelevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52634	Madam Minister, obviously we didn't understand each other. When we talked about the establishment of sports associations, we talked about the Law on Associations, but this is the register of the Ministry, which we prefer, and we're against enrolment in the business register. The facts you have stated can be really relevant and can be accurate, but in any case we do not think there is a need for two registers: one in the Ministry and one in the business register. That's what a member of your 68th proposal says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52635	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52636	To avoid misunderstandings, only one registry will be and he will be in the Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52637	The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs from the Prostrevo group of MPs submitted to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 68th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prostrem Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has proposed that Article 77 be amended. I will read Article 77(1) proposed: "In the event of the termination of the sports association as recipient of its assets, only a domestic non-profit organisation in the field of sport can be designated." The Serbian Radical Party suggests "The status of the sports association determines the recipient of his property in the event of the termination of the sports association". The Serbian Radical Party believes it is appropriate to leave it to the sports association to only regulate its assets in the event of its shut-down or bankruptcy. Madam Minister, we've been expecting to shut down every day for one association or some club. One problem is funding clubs. Today I heard from the MPs who proposed amendments to be different, depending on local self-government, funded by clubs. In the principle debate, I was saying that the state has to pass a law where local self-government must single out whether 3 or 5% for sport in these local self-governments or cities. Let me give you an example. We in the Serbian Radical Party fought in Krusevec to make it work. Our proposal was to single out a hundred million dinars for sport. The local government, which makes up the second coalition, has accepted that it is 63,000,000 from the budget. That's about 3%, but that's where the second problem came from: out of 63,000,000, 37,000,000 goes to the "Progress" football club, and 300,000 dinars go to the School Sports Union on an annual basis. You're going to tell me now that you need to write programs to get sports clubs to get money. Believe it or not, a program is written... I give you an example: the water polo club writes a program that needs 1,600,000 dinars for one competitive season, out of those 1,600,000 dinars gets 380,000 dinars, and the football club writes that it needs 39,000,000 dinars, it gets 37. I asked you, by what law can a professional club get money? We stand for school sport. I said that this should work and Serbian Radical Party proposal number one is – the professors of the DIF must from the first basic to teach physically in schools. With this money, as we have deployed on the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party in Krusevec, everyone can dispose of all local self-government; the problem is only who is in power, because every political party has an impact on which club money will be given. This country has to regulate legally. We can't let this happen. We can't have a school sport working. You just said, Minister, that kids and school sports are the most important thing. We all agree, but how? I told you, whether you through the Ministry of Education or whatever you want, the teachers of physical education from the first grade have to teach physically in schools, at least twice a week, and we'll have healthy children, no obesity, no wrong spines, no flat soles. No gym teacher will be on the desk. School halls will be full of kids, sections, and they won't be recreationals, like so far, and they'll be issuing halls for 1,000-2,000 dinars an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52639	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52640	Thank you, Madam Chairman. With regard to local self-government and painful elements of budget allocation, which is otherwise small and insufficient in local self-government, you will find the answer in Article 137 of the law where we quite precisely define the general interest in the field of sport in the local. I will also add that the ministry, in a desire to further specify the resolution of the problem of the distribution of funds at the site, has accepted the amendment proposed by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic – that the local self-government unit, within six months of the adoption of the national strategy, determines the sport development programme on its territory. So we will have at least two mechanisms: one general interest is defined in the law, and the other is to define a strategy at the level of the Republic and then a commitment to a place of the same nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52641	National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 78th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52642	Madam President, Madam Minister, we have submitted 98 amendments, but we will not explain everything. If they are linked and an amendment to one member is not accepted, then it is without reason to explain the following amendments. For that reason, we will not report to each amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52643	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted the amendment to Article 78. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. The 80th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 85th amendment. The amendment, added after article 85, was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment with correction to article 85 was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment, which was added after article 85, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 86th amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52644	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Member of the 86nd century 2nd and 3, since the amendments were made for each other on behalf of our parliamentary group, I will explain one and the other, because they are connected, so there is no reason for me to report more times. Therefore, as the promoter wrote in point 2: "The Sports Association ceases to be deleted from the register". Item 3: "The removal from the register is a solution that is finally in the administrative procedure. An administrative dispute may be initiated against the resolution to delete from the register." We felt that Section 3 should be deleted, but in paragraph 2, we wrote: “The conditions and the cases of Article 1 are determined by the adoption of a resolution to delete from the register, against which no appeal can be made, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. ” So we tried to put Article 86's 2nd and Article 3th attitude together in one position, but to get that attitude to the head and tail. What you wrote in your explanation is this: “Amendment is not accepted because that attitude teaches a lesson about the legal remedy in relation to the solution. ” What did you think we wanted to accomplish with what we wrote that could trigger an administrative dispute? That's exactly what I'm We offer legal medicine and say – there can be an administrative dispute. But the difference between what you wrote and what we wrote is that in this case we can legally follow the steps and, as I have already said, there is a head and tail in this case. The way it's written with you, the lawyers agree, it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52645	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52646	I'm sorry, but we really can't lift the right to appeal. So, according to this, firstly, they have the right to appeal, and then there is the administrative dispute. We also predicted that there would be a administrative dispute, with the possibility of a complaint being filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52647	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Yes, you explained that. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 87th amendment. Mr. Mileta Poscurica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52648	As with Article 82, where we wanted to talk about what it means when jurisdiction is delegated in this law from other district laws covering the issue of this law, we are now in a position to show the same in Article 87. We wanted to erase it. Here, the legislator himself in position 2 says the process of liquidating society will be implemented in the manner the law in the area of jurisdiction says. Even more convincing was the introduction of new institutes in Article 82. However, we see no intention of discharging the associated effects of other laws that are otherwise in legal circulation. So we just wanted to alarm the public that we talked about it, because of future complications that might occur in solving the status of sports organisations institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52649	The 88th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. The 90th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The 91st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The 92nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52650	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Article 92. The proposal for a law in the first place is said: "A bankruptcy procedure in accordance with the law shall be carried out through a sports association which is unable to pay." We suggested erasing this member because it was all arranged by the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy law has settled questions, and there is no need for certain issues to be regulated in part and vaguely by this law. It is, after all, the opposite of the unity of the legal order of the article. 4 and 194. The constitution, on which there is already one decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so there was no need for this member to be found in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52651	The 96th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, Djordje Milicevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted the title above Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52652	Article 104 of the Law stated: “Territory sports alliances”. We felt that this title should be changed and that the title "Sports Union of Serbia and other territorial alliances" should be placed, because the following members received the Olympic Committee, the Republic Sports Institute and all others except the Sports Alliance of Serbia. The sports union of Serbia, I must say, not because I am a member of the presidency but because it seems to be an injustice to the Sports Union, has existed since 1945. First as the Fiscal Committee of Serbia, and already since 1946 as the Fiscal Alliance of Serbia, then as the Union of Sports of Serbia, and since 1961 as SOFK, which all of us involved in sports know well. Since 1992, there has been a current name, the Sports Federation of Serbia. In Serbia's Sports Development Strategy, the Sports Union of Serbia, apart from the Olympic Committee and the Sports Ministry, plays one of the most important roles in the development of sports in Serbia. Serbia's sports union is the only organisation that has conducted the classification of sports, sports alliances and sports experts. So the Sports Union of Serbia is the only sports organisation that has made categorisation, i.e. classification and athletes, sports and sports experts, and that should be appreciated. Based on the results achieved, Serbia's Sports Union is still categorising athletes and sports workers. This law will deprive them of their right, i.e. only members of the expert commission made up of the Olympic Committee, the Republic Sports Institute and the Ministry of Sports. The sports union of Serbia has proposed to the ministry of youth and sports to finance the programme of preparation and performance of Serbian athletes. That right will now, but only for neo-Olympic sports. Serbia's sports alliance, unfortunately, is the only one that organises in this country the award of sports awards, such as the May Prize of Serbia, the most successful athletes, sports workers and organisations in Serbia. As trusted jobs, which he received from the Ministry of Sports and Youth a year ago, Serbia's Sports Union is in control and looks after the development of sports in Kosovo and Metohija. He also takes care of the development of school and student sports. So, based on everything I've said, it really is necessary for this title to be changed and for the Sports Union of Serbia to take its place in this law. I am happy that the amendment of the SPS - JS Parliamentary Group, which is identical with my amendment, adopted and I don't care at all that it is the amendment of the ruling coalition, is important that injustice is corrected and that the Sports Union, which has really contributed significantly to the development of sport, both Olympic and neo-Olympic, and all other sports alliances, means, municipal, regional, etc., takes place in the law that belongs to it. I'm glad that amendment was adopted. I have proposed the same amendment, that is, the Progressive Group of Serbia, but it is good that the Ministry of Sports has heard that this amendment is adopted and that the Sports Union of Serbia gets its title and its powers, as it deserves, significantly reduced as it has been before, but so it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52653	Mrs Samardzic Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52654	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Because of the technique of writing, we were not in a position to adopt your amendment, although we consider it justified, and we adopted an amendment that is slightly wider, and we will discuss it a little later, which was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. You said it was reduced the scope of the activities and duties foreseen for Serbia's Sports Union. I just want to tell you that Serbia's Sports Federation is scheduled to delegate, as a non-governmental organisation, its representative to the board of directors of a government organisation, it's about the Republic Sports Institute. It is a paper in the law, and I think it is a picture of how mutual co-operation between the Sports Alliance of Serbia and the Ministry of State, i.e., well proved, as a partnership and non-mixing of the state in the autonomy of sports and as the opening of the doors of state institutions to representatives of NGOs. You also did not specify one thing about the Sports Union of Serbia, which is very impotent to me, so since you are active in the Sports Union, I am taking the opportunity to inform you about this. Namely, when the Ministry of Youth and Sports ordered research on the state of school sports, sports facilities, the largest number of schools as organizers of school competitions was not listed, for example, by the professional activity of the municipality or the secretariat of physical culture, but by the sports association of the municipality. This is one of the reasons why we have defined that this extraordinary network that the Sports Union of Serbia has in the municipalities of Serbia is preserved and given it additional legitimacy and importance in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52655	I thank Mrs. Secretary. The amendment to the title above article 104 was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted the title above the 107th and 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, who wants a word, submitted to the 107th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52656	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, so the Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 108 on Article 1 and Article 2, so I will... I'm sorry, 108...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52657	Then the word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. He answered, but I gave you the upper hand as a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52658	Thank you, Madam President. So, this is an amendment that is related to the amendment to Article 24, which I spoke about in the morning section, where we proposed that the Department of Sports and Medical Sports participate actively in the introduction of the Sports and Call Nomenclature. You see, since this is about the same subject, you have responded to this amendment to Article 24 that the amendment is not accepted because the decision in the text of the bill is more precise. If this is about the same subject... The reasons for not accepting this amendment to Article 107 is as follows: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Republic Sports Institute as an expert institution in the field of sport is not in charge of this type of business, in accordance with the law, and there is no interference with its participation in the preparation of this act". There can't be two kinds of arguments on the same subject. He may not be in charge, but we're asking him to be in charge, and you say he can. If he can, why isn't he doing it? Because it's a crown institution, it's a hat. We believe that this amendment should be accepted, because it is completely normal and logical. The Department of Sports and Medicine of Sports is a hat, a roof, and should participate, not for you to prescribe in the Ministry. There are professional people out there. The question is, do you in the Ministry have professional people to deal with this kind of problem? I think it would be your turn to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52659	The word is Mr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52660	In our proposal, we have made changes to replace the word “institute” wherever the word “institute” appears, more looking at it from the aspect of the organisation of the health network, the health system, because, finally, the jurisdiction of the roof, the Republic Institute (that is, the Institute) for sports and sports medicine is described in numerous points. Let's just say, we're contesting that surveillance of professional work in the field of sports. Although, perhaps we wouldn't argue so much if we knew who he was watching. We don't see a distribution network now and what institutions would be at a level lower than the republican, urban, municipal, or what would be called. When looking at the Health Protection Act, it is divided into levels: therefore, in the first level, the basic level, secondary and tertiary levels. The institution, the institution, as you predicted in the law, exists at all levels, can be used as a term, as an organisational option at all levels of health care, but as such it does not exist in the health system as provided for by law. It can be used at the level of primary health care, but where there are higher education institutions, colleges, or universities based. When it comes to what we propose, to be an institute, it fully unites within itself and the need to retain the headquarters of the institution of the medical school or of the related colleges and, of course, scientific research work and everything else that would cover the institution, giving the possibility of diversity in work: also polyclinical work, even health care and a lot of what the legislator normally gave him in the job description. As part of scientific research, consideration of strategies, anthropological measures, in general monitoring the health status of the sports population, could also be carried out. There is one ambiguity in point 8 of point 2 – determining the health status and functional abilities of participants in physical activities. It's simple, now we're detaching sports from physical activity. I don't know if it's on purpose or if it's expanding jurisdiction for some others who would come to benefit. Because the general trend is now in the reorganization of the health system that when they don't know what to do with institutions (for example, medicine, etc.) Then in the local self-governments at the primary level, they give them some authority. Give them medical assurances, issue this, issue what you do, do this, do it, so that they can support themselves from something and live. Because local self-governments, who have agreed and voted for this kind of reform of the health system, have received a rock around their necks and do not know how they will cope. Is this roof institution now doing a physical check on "participating in physical activity"? We don't know who that applies to. They may be judges, they're not athletes, but they're part of the sports system. Maybe that could have been more specific. But what we're looking for is a change in the name, to be an institute, which covers more and gives the right to further, more remotely, by municipalities and regions, you can even call it institutions, if you put as a roof – the Institute, to fit into the Health Protection Act. That was our intention with that correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52661	The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 107th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 108th amendment. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52662	I apologize for the little deconcentration, I just thought you said 108. The amendment is now finally on Article 108th position, which the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted. Therefore, this member of 108 treats the authorities of the Republic Institute for Sport and Sport Medicine of the Republic of Serbia. You're stating that these bodies are directors and board of directors. We thought it was quite right to introduce a third authority, to be called the Supervisory Board. This is what we wrote here: “The organizations of the Republic Institute are: Director, Management Board and Supervisory Board. ” After Article 4, we added a new position 5, which reads: "The Supervisory Board numbers three members who appoint and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A member of the Supervisory Board may be appointed a person with a higher education. “ So we have foreseen all the criteria on which the government of the Republic of Serbia could operate. What made us think there was a need for a supervisory board, unlike the proposal that the motion here in the text of the bill and said it should be done by the Ministry? In response to our amendment, we have received that the amendment is not accepted, given that the same member of the bill is prescribed to supervise the Ministry. You know how, we're amendments and we're writing to change something in the text of the bill that you sent us, so you can't refuse something because the original text says something else, but you have to state the reason. Here, I'll give you a reason why we don't think the Ministry should do the job. First of all, because there's no reason for the Ministry to do it. Democracy implies, among other things, the distribution of power and responsibility. We have very simply predicted here who should be; on which criteria will be chosen, it will already be done by the Government, and the Ministry will be very indirectly referred to how it is done. For us, since the Republic Institute for Sport and Medicine is an institution of general and great social importance, it is very important that only society is involved in the work through individuals who are members of this Supervisory Board. It doesn't all have to work, simply because I think the Ministry has enough other jobs to oversee the work of the Republic Institute for Sports and Sports Medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52663	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52664	Thank you very much. I am truly grateful if someone wants the Ministry to release excess work, but since the Republic Sport Institute is an indirect budgetary institution within the Ministry of Youth and Sports, that is, within the framework of the division in our head, we really have an obligation, by law, to supervise, means, by the Budget Law, ultimately, the Republic of Serbia. If memory doesn't cheat on me, you've been quite the advocate of not increasing the administration. I must say, I certainly support that, and that's one of the reasons why, while we're working, we haven't accepted your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52665	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 108th amendment. Mr. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52666	So this is about us trying to transfer a little bit to that board of directors that you've been "jumping" at the Ministry for two reasons. There are two autonomous provinces in the Republic of Serbia, the AP Kosovo and Metohija and AP Vojvodina. We felt that their representatives, meaning territorial alliances, should be members of the board of directors, not that the Ministry had two representatives, two of them and two of them. It's just one measure of keeping everything under your control. Why didn't you include representatives of territorial alliances, when in law they have their own importance, which is defined? Territorial sports alliance and autonomous province, why aren't they in the governing bodies? You wanted to eliminate them, or do you think that's not necessary at all? Why two members of the ministry? Em, keep an eye on... As far as supervision is concerned, you know, there are other users of Serbia's budget system in the area of health care who have supervisory boards, which are not defined by the Ministry of Health, are not representatives of the health ministry, but have their own supervisory board. You have the Republic Institute for Public Health – Budgetary Institution; you have the City Institute for Public Health – Budgetary institution, so they have supervisory committees, not the Ministry's supervision, but their own supervisory board. This is how I'm afraid, and as far as the board of directors and the board of directors are concerned, that everything is under the auspices of the Ministry, so as the Ministry decides, and as the Ministry makes the hat, that's how you'll behave. A little decentralisation. It's a time of democracy. It's not a time of presy and repression.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52667	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52668	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Just to let you know why we didn't accept that representatives of the sports alliance of the AP Vojvodina or from Kosovo and Metohija will be on the board of directors of the Republic Sports Institute. The reason is simple: we have representatives of the Sports Union of Serbia, which is a roof organisation for these two organisations as well. Another, perhaps more important reason, is that there are rural sports institutions; there it is the place of representatives of the province's NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52669	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52670	I really can't accept that explanation of yours. The Republic Sports Institute as a roof institution should have a wide range of boards. It is okay that there is a rural sports office, no one has a problem with it, but it is the Republic; in that republic citizens of autonomous provinces should be represented. If these autonomous provinces exist within the Republic of Serbia, and I think they exist, there is no reason not to be involved. That's better for you. I give you well-intentioned advice. You will explain to the circuit alliances why they are not involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52671	The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. The title above Articles 112 and 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Dušanka Plecevic wants a word, and then you, Mr. Pelevic, will get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52672	With this amendment, we wanted to improve the text of the law and that above Article 112 stands the title – License for competitions. Also, in the same Article 112, in paragraph 1, after the word “licence for” we replace the word “season” with the word “competition”. It is perfectly logical that national league and sports competitions can only be attended by sports organisations that have been granted a license to compete, not for the season. It is unclear what is meant by the concept – they have been granted a season permit. There are many things that can be wronged, for example. to be the organizers of the competition in the season or to use a sports object in the season, to rent a sports facility, to deal with coaching or other professional work in sport, to be privileged observers of sports competitions for the season, etc. All of these activities can be contained in the last sentence of Article 1 of your proposal, which reads: "Only sports organisations that have been authorised for the season can participate in a particular sports season." The law must contain clear definitions. That's why I think it's more precise to say that only sports organisations who have been granted a license to compete can participate in a certain sports season. In that sense, I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Sport creates top competitors through a wide range of amateur sports, which has a lot of material problems. I'll make an example out of Bor, from whom I come. The Bohr shooters, who achieve excellent results and at the state level, have had trouble getting funds for their competitions, I mean, first of all, an air pistol. The best among them, Bobana Velickovic, received the gun thanks to the decision of then-president of the municipality of Bor, who was from the SRS, Mr Branislav Rankic. Thanks to this, as well as enthusiasm and commitment to this sport, it also achieves excellent results in international competitions. With that in mind, I would like to ask the Minister – do athletes only get scholarships when they achieve top-notch results, and so far they can manage how they know and know, especially in individual sports, as in the case of the Bor shooters, for example? You have not convinced me by your reasons for not accepting the amendment that this amendment is no better than an existing proposal. You said the amendment was not accepted because the license refers to the competition season, in accordance with international sports rules. It's a pretty unmistakable explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52673	On Article 112, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52674	Madam President, I have volunteered to explain Article 111 that the government has adopted as an authorised representative. I pressed the button on time, but you didn't register it, but it's not a problem. In this article of the bill, which speaks of sports responsibilities and foundations, paragraph 2 reads: "The Republic of Serbia can establish a national sports Federation and a decision to establish a government." Unfortunately, we already have the Law on Delegation and Foundations and Article 4 of this Law says that the responsibilities and foundations of NGOs are. So if they're NGOs, then the government can't either set them up or finance them. I'm not saying that this intention was negative, on the contrary, very positive, but it's not legally possible to do such a thing. That's why we reacted, and that's why this amendment was adopted by the government, but the question is, is it possible that writers of this law have made such a failure? There's already a Law on Liabilities and Foundations. I don't understand how the writers of this text haven't consulted this law that says it's about NGOs, which the government can't either set up or finance. That's all I wanted to explain. It's what the public does. Anyway, it's a good thing the Ministry accepted our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52675	Do you want to do it by Article 112? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52676	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I am sorry that Mrs. Minister is not here. No problem, you'll listen to me. Anyway, I don't think it was too burning to accept this amendment, although I agree with you. In your explanation, you said that this area, proposed by Mr. Jeremic, is to take into account the area of security when issuing season permits in national league sports competitions and professional sports competitions, so that it is, in addition to fulfilling sports, infrastructure, personal, legal and financial criteria, item 6) - and security... It is true that in Article 157 of the law you regulate the security sector at the event itself, when a sporting event is already taking place. It also had to be incorporated into this law because of the second law we have, the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Events and Events. We Serbian radicals think that this is where it should have been said to be one of the factors that should be taken into account when issuing the permit. Big sports clubs in our country, sports companies "Partizan", "Star", "Worker", etc., they all have people who care about safety, and these are safety commissioners in those stadiums and in those facilities. They're usually people who were formerly employed and have rank in the MUP. You said here in the following attitude that a sports organization should have one person who was engaged, but for the safety of participants in a sports competition, which is two separate things. These security commissioners, as these faces are called, not to speak the names of some, even though I know of the clubs mentioned, do not only have responsibility to the participants of the competition, but also to all those present. Not only that, they've been taking care of the whole order, since the fans' arrival, the approach, they're the ones who are head of the directors' service at these events. They take care of participants in sports competitions, or club players, not only when sports events are held on the home field, but travel with them, the safety commissioner and the people he chooses. So we think that there was room for it here, because exactly and nicely, this next attitude that speaks of the safety of the participants. We simply don't see why the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party has not been accepted, because it is exactly in line with Article 157, which regulates exactly what should be happening, under this second law that I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52677	The 11rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to Article 113. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52678	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 114 speaks of general interest in the field of sports and lists 13 important areas of particular interest in the field of sport. We put a new point, we put it as a first, and it should read in our opinion: "Providing conditions for the achievement of sports programs for all citizens, regardless of age, gender, social status, religious and national membership, functional and other differences and specificities". Then each of the following points is transferred, point 1) as point 2) and so on. We really felt that we were correcting this amendment by introducing a provision that eliminates discrimination. Unfortunately, in the sport, we witnessed several times, which through the media, we were able to read and look at, which in personal experience, while attending various events, was a lot of discrimination. Not to mention that famous affair with the entrance to the pools and the use of swimming pools, when Roma children were not allowed to use it. I read your answer, which is why you do not accept the amendment, and you say: “The amendment is not accepted because the solution in the bill of law is more precise in terms of general interest. “ Believe me, not one mention of what I wrote in all the 13 points that you have listed here. What part of you are more specific? I really don't recognize that. I'd like you to answer that. I believe, and the DSS believes it is of social interest that there is no discrimination in Serbian sport and Serbian society. That's why we suggested this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52679	The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment, with a correction, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, submitted Serbia. Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52680	Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, in Article 114, point 1), you say – providing conditions for preparation, participation and the achievement of the top sports results of athletes at the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games and other major international sports competitions. Our amendment only wanted to single out European and world championships from this term "other major international sports competitions". Why? I think it is of general public interest to win as many medals as possible at European and world championships and that these championships should be distinguished in importance from other major international competitions, because other major international competitions you have defined and listed in article 160. Regional competitions, such as Balkan championships, and street races, street marathons, qualification tournaments, but probably international matches by two clubs or international sports matches. So, of all these competitions, indeed, after the Olympics, for us are the biggest European and world competitions. That's why we wanted, in front of the SNS Group, Serbia, to particularly apostrophe European and world championships to rank. I think this is really clear to everyone who deals with sports, especially you. I don't see why the government has rejected this amendment, with an explanation that the solution to the proposal is more consistent. It's not cellulent. You've forgotten European and world championships here, and that's not good. In the second part, we also suggested that international and interstate co-operation be separated from the organisation of international and national sports competitions, as there is no link between international and interstate co-operation and national sport competitions. National events are happening in Serbia, and international co-operation is something else, co-operation between our country and another country. We therefore consider this amendment to be a special one. I think this should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52681	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic to article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together. Mr. Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52682	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask the Minister to take the law and, if possible, turn it around and hold on to Article 114 and Article 134. So it's about general interests. With this amendment, we proposed that point 12 be a point 2) and that the order of these points should be moved in order, thinking that there are more important things in the matter of general interest, so more important and so on. Point 12 says: "improvement of recreational sport, promotion and promotion of sport by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially children, women, youth and persons with disabilities". We believe that this is a general interest in international importance. When you look at Article 134, the interests of citizens in the field of sports in the autonomous province, secondly says – promotion and promotion of the activities of citizens in sports, especially children, youth, women and persons with disabilities, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. How is it that the AP Vojvodina recognizes this general interest in its territory, and you put it in 12th place in the roof law? In your explanation, you say, “Amendment is rejected because the proposed solution is more celery. ” Explain to us how this proposed solution is more cellular. We offer you a technical solution, it doesn't change the essence of the law, but it sorts points by priority, and you say this is more cellular. This is absurd. The AP Vojvodina recognises the general interests of its citizens and puts them in a high priority position, and you place the general interest of citizens of the complete Republic of Serbia in 12th place. We're telling you, and you're saying the proposed solution is more cellular. That doesn't make sense, elemental logic. This is a technical question, it doesn't change the law. Nothing's going on here. Put that priority in second place, because it's a general interest, that both women, and children, and youth and people with disabilities are engaged in sports. It is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't see why you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52683	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52684	I didn't mean to answer so we wouldn't waste any time, but I have to tell you that this isn't just a level of stringing priorities, it's not just a level of what's first, what's the last priority. If you pay attention, you will see that we and the Paralympics, let's say, are among the first priorities. That's one. Under two, pay attention to article 115. The reason why we put, among other things, into the republican priorities at this level of women and persons with disabilities is that they are then able to compete individually in open competitions alongside the border alliances that unite them at the republican level. Among other things, such a competition is now open, which meets the priorities of the strategy. In order for us to achieve the possibility of double, to put it that way, of republican financing, which is why we have particularly apostropheeded them in this place. They are first and foremost in the restaurant and regarding the Vojvodina, because it comes to them as a third and fourth way of individual funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52685	Members of the 115th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52686	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 118(1). That Article 118, paragraph 1, reads in the law: "The Minister educates the expert commission on the selection of programmes and projects that analyses and assesses the submitted proposals for the annual programmes. “ We felt that this was “one. ” July -- the minister educates the expert commission on the selection of programmes and projects that analyses and assesses the submitted proposals for the annual programmes" should be deleted. What made us think that? It is interesting that the Ministry in Article 119 says the minister has the authority to regulate the criteria and methods of approval of programmes and allocations of funds closer, so we really consider this to be a formality, to build a commission that needs to be analysed and evaluated by the programmes. Here's what it looks like now because you refused our amendment regarding the formation of a supervisory board at the Republic Sports and Sports Medicine Institute. There, the Supervisory Board, to which you should delegate power and responsibility, was not necessary, because you say, accordingly, that they are budgetary users, you should have jurisdiction, although it does not stand, but here, when it is to be formally said that something exists as a democratic institution, it is this commission, it forms. So, for me, decentralisation and democracy rights would be to form a commission, according to the criteria set by the Minister and the Ministry, but also to share the responsibility and power, to surrender power to the Supervisory Board of the Republic Institute of Sports and Medicine of Sports. As you said, so where it's important, where there's big resources, you absolutely want to have influence, and where the commission should assess something, you give them the opportunity to evaluate it, and you decide it. I'm afraid that's not the essence of democracy or decentralisation that you stand for, and you as an individual and a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52687	The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic to Article 118. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52688	I'm sorry, just one sentence to say. What happened to the previous amendment also applies to this one, except here are other dates. Simple, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52689	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to Article 122. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52690	You see, we in this article predicted that the appeal, instead of eight days, could be filed within 15 days. What does it matter? Look at Article 118, Madam Minister. Date 30 December – The Ministry shall inform the programme holders of the amount of appropriations per programme and project. So that's December 30th. You know that December 31st is not working; the first and second is New Year's Eve, and the rest are going on holidays, and so until Christmas, and you have left a period of seven days. Do you actually want no one to complain? Is that the goal? We suggest that it be fifteen days, for reasons of understanding. Most days are days of work, and therefore no one will be able to complain. It's just a practical thing. A few days from that 30th December are not working days. When to object and when to complain about any amount of funds allocated by the programmes? Will you accept this amendment? Oh, no? So no one's going to complain.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52691	Mrs. Markovic Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52692	Madam Chairman, thank you for giving me your word. It is about the fact that the more effective it is and the shorter the time limit so that we can start as soon as possible, from the very beginning of the year, the payment of budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52693	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52694	I understand your reasons to cut the deadline, but I'm talking about the days that aren't working because it's just impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52695	Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Let me let you know that we're in direct transmission by 17.55 p.m., and then we'll have a delayed transmission later. Here you go, Mr. Kasalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52696	President-in-Office, Ms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of 123 are regulated by national recognitions, awards and scholarships to top athletes. We think this member is very important when it comes to the law on sports. What we want with this amendment is to highlight and put it as our position is that we believe that the holders of national recognitions, in addition to what is provided for in Article 123, should also be winners of European sports records. Since national recognitions are also worth winning medals at these championships, and only world records are respected, we believe that European record winners should also be the bearers of European recognitions, especially considering that in many sports, European records have a special quality and greater value than some other record. When we talk about it, since this member is also talking about the most successful athletes, we really think that winning a European record at any sport and branch is the ultimate result and that these athletes are the most successful, popularising sport, which individually and collectively, is that they are the best ambassadors of our country and that they really deserve attention and should be included in this article as recognition holders from the field of sport. If the explanation for which my amendment is rejected, and I believe that there is still time and space to try to find a solution and accept this amendment, the alleged expansion of the circle of persons who may be the bearers of these national recognitions, I do not really have the dilemma that we have a large number of European record holders, but even if that is true, that enlargement, I believe, is the means that, which are limited, we should use and extend to this round of our athletes who have achieved the European record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52697	Madam Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52698	Thank you, Madam Chairman. With all due respect to the argument that our athletes are among the best ambassadors this country has, I will never argue, the only problem that arises in terms of record, both European and world, is a series of examples that we had at the previous Beijing Olympics, namely, that even during qualifications, both European, world and Olympic records and ultimately those who have broken all those records do not win the medal, but only qualify, do not enter the finals sometimes. The record, unfortunately, is no longer the same level of sports results it was, but crashes in two minutes after it is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52699	A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted the 123rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52700	Madam President, Madam Minister, we have responded to this member of the proposal because we wanted to correct one phenomenon that is being implemented by this member, which is discrimination against athletes from neo-Olympic sports. This member has two attitudes. The first point is that national recognitions are won by Olympics, paralympics, chess players from the chess Olympics and medal winners from the European championship and world championships in Olympic sports. So it's about lifelong national recognitions, or, as we say in sports, sports pensions after 40 years of age. It's okay, we don't mind. In the second position, money prizes are discussed, which are also won by all but athletes and coaches of neo-Olympic sports. I don't think that's fair. We'll put the chess players aside, since I see you're awfully defending them. It's okay, let the European Sports Charter not recognise chess as sport, you admit it, so be it, but is it fair for chess players to win national recognitions, lifelong pensions and cash prizes, and non-Olympic sports competitors nothing? Last year you were president of the World Karate Championship Organising Committee in Belgrade. Ours won four medals, of which one team, champions of the world. Those guys and those girls won't even get a cash prize. (Snezana Samardzic Markovic, from the place: She will get. They won by the old law, they won't get by the new one. That's what it says here if you don't adopt my amendment. There's something else going on here. You also say, or Government, in rejecting this amendment of ours: "Amendment is not accepted because the circle of the person is set by the said provision regarding the award of national recognition of the most successful athletes. “ I think a mistake has been made here because in your explanation it is only about national confessions. That's not what I'm talking about. Athletes of non-Olympic sports do not expect to receive lifelong national pensions and national recognitions as prescribed in the position of the 1st member, but they will be very unhappy, suppressed and discriminated, I must say, if they are left out in terms of giving cash rewards, as regulated by this bill. In addition to the karatists' results, karate is also the most massive sport. Karate is the most massive sport, after football, in Serbia. I won't talk much about my sport, which I run, but I also have to say that we are the most trophy sport in Serbia by winning medals in the competition of 160 countries in the world. I am quite certain and aware, since I work in the Sports Union of Serbia as a member of the presidency, that not all neo-Olympic sports should receive cash prizes, but for those who are categorized in the first or second category really cannot ignore that they deserve it. That's what this is about. So, they're aware of these guys and girls celebrating our country's name, anthem and flag across Europe and the world that they can't be the same as athletes who win medals in Olympic sports, but you can't take away what they're fighting for. They don't care about a cash prize. Not even height at all, but it's important to them to recognize the state they're fighting for. That's what I'm talking about. Trust me, there's a lot of sports like that. According to the Serbian Sports Union, there are 32 Olympic sports, summer and winter, and as many as 59 neo-Olympic sports. I'm not saying that they should all have the same treatment, but those who really carry the glory of our country around the world should be rewarded in this humble way. So, not national recognitions, not lifelong sports pensions, but cash prizes for the success of the European and world championships certainly do. Well, that's what I wanted to inform you about. Believe me, I've been putting up with a lot of pressure this month by representatives of many neo-Olympic sports. I don't think you should wrong your soul about them, because they carry the glory of our country, sometimes much more than some Olympic sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52701	Madam Minister will give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52702	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is an opportunity to remind you to read Article 125 of the Sport Act, which says: “The awards for the special contribution to the development and affirmation of non-Olympic sport and the criteria for their assignment are governed by a special act of the Government, with the amount of the prizes unable to exceed the amounts established for Olympic sports. “ As you can see, the law stipulates that rewards are the very athletes who deserve all the attention of the country. I'm very glad that all these words you mentioned, about the height, expectations and the desire to reward, will enter the stenogram, because when we do the rulebook, or the government's act on rewarding these athletes, the Ministry of Youth and Sports will also send you a written invitation, and I am now giving you a public invitation to be a member of the commission who will work on making this act and all these words of yours will be installed in that act. Thank you. That, of course, will follow after the law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52703	Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52704	Madam Minister, it is encouraging what you have just said, I think it will be a satisfaction for many athletes and sports workers in neo-Olympic sports, but it does not guarantee that they will be rewarded adequately because Article 125 writes – awards for a special contribution to the development and affirmation of neo-Olympic sport. This is not about results, and Article 123 in attitude 2 is about sports results achieved by competitors. This is more about the functioners. It doesn't take Neolimpic Sports officials to win anything. Don't laugh, I know you have a very nice smile, but I don't think it's appropriate, this is a sad subject. Sad subject, here's why. Not only does he write about athletes, but he writes: “The awards for a special contribution to the development and affirmation of neo-Olympic sports and criteria for their assignment are governed by a special act of the Government. “ So don’t talk about athletes. This looks like they're talking about those who are responsible for the affirmation of some neolimpic sport. That's what this is about, and that's what's confusing me. Of course I welcome Article 125, but believe me, if it doesn't apply to athletes and sports coaches who scored gold at the championships of Europe and the world, then it's not good, but it doesn't say here, you have to admit. Anyway, I'm grateful for your public invitation to be a member of that committee and I accept with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52705	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52706	Once again, I will remind you that both current awards and national recognitions received by athletes in Olympic disciplines are called – awards for special contributions and affirmation of Olympic sports. So it's about a name, and it's about, of course, athletes, it's about one. In practice, you can see how it's done. Two, well, you'll have a chance, you personally, to influence them not to be functioners but to be quite athletes, which you can be sure of.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52707	Okay. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic to Article 124. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to Article 124. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52708	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Government's representatives, this Article 134. The law on sport effectively favours the position of sport in the province, since we know that sports and sports activities are funded from three sources; these are, above all, the budget of local self-government, the budget of autonomous provinces and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Here we have asymmetric funding, or athletes from the AP Vojvodina are in a privileged position because they have one source of funding more. So we'll have a case of a high concentration of high-quality athletes and players in Vojvodina. Given that we are large powers, I said so and when the debate was in principle, we gave, based on the Statute, AP Vojvodina from 160 districts, including sports, I fear that at some point some Vojvodina team will be even stronger than Serbia's team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52709	Just tell me, is he from the time of the authorized representative? Yeah. Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. The Youth and Sports Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee says it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 137th Amendment were submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The Youth and Sports Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted the title above Article 142 and Article 142 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52710	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted the strategy to develop sports in the Republic of Serbia to be prefixed - national. According to the government's explanation, it is called the "Sport Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia". In the name – yes, but in the text below – no. I'm talking about the next line. It would be appropriate not only to talk about a strategy, but to talk about a national strategy. It's much more important, believe me. So I'm not just talking about the name, but I'm talking about a further text, in which the words "national strategy" are not used, but only "strategics". That's not good. I think there is one single national strategy in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52711	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52712	This is Article 142(2) point (5). It refers to the strategy for sports development in the Republic of Serbia. You say: “The strategy is determined... “ You are sorting out in points (1) to (6). Point 5) reads: "the obligations and tasks of public authorities of all levels and sports programme holders to realise the objectives set for sport and development. “ We felt that these “public authorities ” should be deleted and to be the bearers of state functions. When you write in some law "public authorities" then it implies that there is a secret government. In Serbia, it is possible, because when we observe the public authority of Serbia, the public prime minister is Mirko Cvetkovic, but everyone in Serbia knows that there is a secret authority and that the secret prime minister is called Boris Tadic. So I can understand why you put this here. Shalu aside, Serbia's legal system does not know the term "public authority". He knows the term ‘State function’. We have therefore changed that – public authorities bearers, in – state officials. I think we contribute to the text of the law because this is Serbia's legal system, he knows the term "state function", "state official". He doesn't know public authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52713	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 143rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52714	Madam Minister, it's a good thing this bill first apostrophe of school sports. That's good for a lot of reasons. We know that only 15% of our children are engaged in sports through the school sports competition. Schools usually have either ruined halls or they don't have sports halls at all. Our children do less than two hours a week of physical culture, sports in schools. It is certainly not good and therefore it is good to speak more, and now it is written in the law on sport, on school sport, because we know the consequences of not having enough sport in schools, whether basic, secondary, or in colleges – our children, our youth has a number of spinal column deformities, flat soles and suffering from obesity and everything else that is not good for our youth. But we reacted, we only wanted to improve this member in one word – preschool sport, to include preschool sport. There are 1670 preschool institutions in Serbia. About 39.2% of our children are in those preschools. It's a great basis for school sport and later sport at all, however, we have a lot of problems. We don't have an O.R. in almost no institutions, and we don't have adequate staff; these educators, which are about 9,000, are not trained for physical education. We have over 3,000 nurses, about 400 associates. A total of 173,000 of our children attend, which is why we of the SNS Group felt that at least one word must be inserted into the law: "preschool" sport.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52715	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment to Article 143. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to conclude and say something together, since we have amendments to Article 143, pages 6 and 7, one by one, there's no reason to talk about one and the other in particular. So Article 143 speaks of school sport. Stav 6 says: "Nearer conditions and rules for the organisation of school sports are prescribed by the minister responsible for education, according to the Ministry. “ We really support the story of school sports. When I spoke in principle, I said how important it was. I felt that this was very little for one law that was large and had 194 members, that only one member was involved in school sports and that it was mentioned in two more, because I think it should be governed by this law. I said then that the Ministry of Education must also participate in the adoption of all this, but we also believe that the Republic Institute should be involved and participate in the process of determining the conditions and rules for organising school sports. This is a broader framework, the Republic Institute monitors what a health picture of our founding fathers and high school children looks like. I think they should take advantage of their knowledge and experience and be involved in the process of determining the conditions and rules for organising school sports. Speaking of everything, I can't help but mention this attitude 7 where we're after words... I will read this item 7 so that you can follow, Section 7 says: “Students and students cannot be involved in extracurricular sports activities and sports competitions unless their health skills for school sports have been previously established. “ I also stressed in the principle that and how important it is to really establish their health skills to practice school sports, especially because of the fact that these formal medical examinations carried out for teaching activity, for participation in gym classes, are actually very routine and really unable to establish anything. I told you I worked at school for 18 years and I have examples that I could support what I said. In Article 143, paragraph 7, after the words “included in extracurricular” we added – and to teaching activities. What it looks like is the application of that famous recipe – three hours of physical activity in schools best shows the health condition of our founders; means, formalized to the end. It is not impossible to follow it as a fact that follows, and that is that the tendency of the Ministry of Education (I am telling you because you really need to sit down with the Minister of Education and talk about it) is that from the lower classes from first to fourth grade, you are evicting professional people, professors of the university, who are and how professional to work with that age. You yourself pointed out that you insisted that children's age be accompanied by appropriate professional work. They're handing over teachers now. Because of the lack of time, we've come into a situation, or because of a lack of resources, the frame has, that the whole process that he's advanced is going back to the beginning and that we have problems with completely unprofessional people who need to run this area. I ask you to accept our amendment and to in some way influence this conversation with the Minister of Education, because the Minister of Education to which schools strike, enters at 9 a.m. on Monday, and for tomorrow a major strike is scheduled, shows no ear to sit and talk to educational workers about what will happen, and God forbid you let God talk to parents whose children go to school and whose children suffer from the fact that he has no hearing to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52717	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52718	On the occasion of the possibility set out in Article 143(6) that the Institute of Sports gives an opinion, I repeat once again that the Republic Institute for Sport is an indirect budgetary user and that, accordingly, it is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and we always delegate them when it comes to giving an opinion. The research on these elements on the state of school sport, or the health of children of school age, has just begun to work again on the Youth Ministry initiative and on the sports of people from the Republic Institute, which they have not done for 16 years. Anyway, we're staying on this. I assume that every future minister will delegate people not only from the Department of Sports but also from other institutions to participate in policymaking in school sport. As for the issues – involved in extracurricular and teaching activities, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is not responsible for teaching activities, and we did not think it possible that there was something in the law on sports that is not the jurisdiction of this ministry. What I'm saying is that with the Minister of Education on several occasions, I've had meetings about the possibility of improving the state of school sport. During the debate in principle, I was saying what this ministry did to repair school sports. What I can say on behalf of my colleague is that he had hearing, but some procedures have to be carried out. He had a problem with the budget, and there's a need to consult on all this and with the National Council, the Educational Council, so it's one of the elements I hope will be promoted in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52719	Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52720	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm very glad, and I assume you asked for an opinion on this research commissioned by the Department of Sports. After all, I've collected all these things that I'm interested in right from this research. So it's one thing when you in law have a clear definition that any ministry is obliged to seek the opinion of the Republic Institute for Sports and Medicine Sports, and another thing is when the minister thinks it's necessary, so he'll ask. So, what we wanted was for the law to enter a decree that really requires the opinion of the Republic Institute for Sports and Medicine of Sports, because it's really an obligation for whoever the minister is. I understand that you understand why you need to ask for that opinion, but I'm afraid it should not be left on the conscience of every future minister. That's why we think it's necessary to get into this law. On the other hand, I respect your collegiate relationship, of course, related to that famous member of the people called "Omerta". You know, that's a rule the Sicilian mob used to use so that no news from the circle wouldn't have let go anywhere. That's what the people call that famous member, the vow of silence, which prohibits ministers from speaking beyond what the prime minister has decreed. So, these famous procedures that you want to call that name, and they just don't, have been going on for eight weeks. These famous procedures cost many parents of eighth grade students and high school graduates a lot. They cost the whole system. It would be good to speed up the procedures a little, because a general strike was announced on Monday. I'm the mother of a high school student, so I've been announced that it will be extended next week. I don't want children to suffer. It's obvious that the children are considered collateral damage to everyone, both the Ministry and the education workers. Please, there are children first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52721	Three more minutes, he's got an authorised representative. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 148th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52722	When it comes to sports facilities, we have come to the idea – public sports facilities. You have defined it all well, but we have suggested that after the attitude one goes to a new position where it is said that public sports facilities cannot be the subject of privatisation, because further in the members of the law you prescribe the way you use, how it is used, that it is available to all citizens equally, etc. Why are we telling you this? We're talking about local self-government that this incompetent government has put in a position to barely survive by offering transfer funds and reducing them to a minimum. We will come to the fact that public sports facilities, which should be used by all citizens in equal conditions, are subject to privatisation, that that dirty money, which is now slowly returning to privatisation, given the great help of this government to privatise these public sports facilities and to build something... Here it is, nice building land. When we propose a defence measure against such a type of crime, you reject that amendment by considering that it is not necessary. It's the policy of this government, whose representative you are here and defend this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52723	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 150th amendment. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52724	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the end of these amendments is near. I know you're as tired of us as we are of you. In Article 150(2), the promoter wrote: “The school sports facilities can, in accordance with this law, be given to the use of other persons only when the needs of teaching and extracurricular school activities are met, in accordance with the yearly program of work of the school,” which would be the authority of the Ministry of Education, but when you need that argument, you call on it, and when you don’t need to call on it as well. We have written an amendment relating to something that should stand after this, item 3: "The way and conditions of the use of sports facilities by other persons will be prescribed by a sublegal act by the ministry in co-operation with the Ministry of Education. “ We insist that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Sports work together in this area. And how important this is that we have tried to regulate this area to the end with this amendment. So, these sublaws are (I've had the chance to really be directed into them) completely irregular, they don't actually regulate anything. Since schools really don't have the means to support themselves in any other way, in many schools, the only way to rent their sports courts, their sports halls. Then the priority is actually citizens and various sports clubs, and at the expense of students and schools and their extracurricular activities. Whenever you complain to the school board, the explanation is – well, we have to live on something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52725	The 151st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic to article 153. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 154th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, a group of 21 MPs of the Group of MPs, ahead Serbia and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. National MP Maria Bulgarcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52726	I would like to express my regret that the amendment of the Liberal Democratic Party to Article 154, in which we have proposed that Articles 154 be deleted, because it is not good that they form the basis for the Ministry's discretionary assessment of the survival or disappearance of a particular sports facility. The criteria for making a decision on changing the purposes of the sports facility are too general and could encourage corruption and abuse, especially if the documents of the Council of Europe and the EU, which state that the possibility of making discretionary assessments by executive authorities is the most common generator of corruption in each country. Moreover, our country lacks sports facilities, so it would be bad for the legislator to encourage such a solution to change the purpose of the facilities currently in existence, which are few in Serbia. Let's say, in my municipality, the Luciani municipality, we don't have a physical hall, i.e. We don't have a gym in Luciani. It began to be built a few years ago, the NIP ministry promised some funds, and we didn't get them. The Youth and Sports Ministry has also promised to help build tennis courts in Guca, so I would ask the Minister how far it has arrived and can we see anything on the subject? I would remind you, Madam Minister, that the Luciani are a wastelander of sports talents, from volleyballers Tanaskovic, Ilic, Pologa and others, through footballer Matijasevic, through a new swimmer, little Dimitri Komadinić; we don't even have a closed pool, and children get such good results in our municipality. I would ask that, in some future distribution of dedicated transfers to local self-government criteria be the results of certain athletes, not some political similarity of local officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52727	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52728	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have to work very hard to see where you read that in article 154 of the discretionary possibility of the Ministry. The criteria, which must be cumulative in this way, are very transparently demonstrated, must be met cumulatively by all the above criteria. I don't see where there's any discretionary space, either for me as a minister, or for any future minister. The reason why we even left the possibility for these criteria to be fulfilled one day is that it can happen in the future that during planning in some local self-government, for example. It's got to be a road trip or some kind of traffic, some kind of expansion. If there is no possibility of change in the law, then the local self-government has its hands tied. That's the only reason why we've ever left an opportunity to change purpose, where, once again, as I've been undermining, they have to meet cumulative criteria in order for that to happen at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52729	The initiative of Bulgarian counterparts is obvious to pay as much attention to young talents as possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic to Article 154. The Government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 157th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 158th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52730	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is about section 4 and 5. He writes: “The sports organisations teams in sports competitions that the national border sports alliance has designated as amateur competitions can perform up to 20% of athletes with the status of professional athletes. ” The following statement reads: “Only professional athletes can perform in sports groups in professional sports competitions. ” I think it is inadmissible to make this distinction between professional and amateur competitors and to introduce restrictions for performances in professional competitions, or professionals in amateur competitions. As early as Barcelona, at the 1992 Olympic Games, the IOC decided that at the Olympic Games, which are amateurs, the right to perform can be given by professionals. This basically erases the line between professional and amateur sports, i.e. amateurs and professionals, when it comes to participation in competitions. Competitors from the professional NBA league compete at Olympic games, world and European competitions. The same is true of our Novak Djokovic, Jelena Jankovic, Ana Ivanovic, who are professionals but perform for Serbia at the Davis Cup. Therefore, I think this is not good and that it is contrary to the IOC decision made in 1992 in Barcelona. What I want to praise, and I have something to commend, I have already told the assistant minister, Mr. Dragan Atanas, who sits next to you, is the final position in this article, which is: “No such sport events are being organised, which is based on the so-called. the free fight of two or more persons (casual fighting and the like), as well as participation in such events." It is quite clear that this is a good attitude, because it is about modern gladiatorial games, without any rules, which are more like a fight than a sports competition and sports fights. So this is good, and this should be supported. We don't need such fights, our children don't need to fight without rules, they shouldn't be scapegoats to some managers who, based only on their blood and their health, make money. That's what I wanted to say. I'm going back to the professional relationship in amateur competitions and amateurs in professional competitions. Consider the IOC decision, made in Barcelona in 1992, where the line is deleted between amateurs and professionals regarding the competition. Of course, there remains a difference, which is apostrophe in this law, when it comes to differences between professionals and amateurs, but here it's about competitions and it doesn't need to be limited.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52731	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52732	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to remove one misunderstanding, perhaps it's not clear enough. In the context of Article 158, it is not about the performances of the team. It is not at all disputed that any member of our team should be a professional. There's no talk here about international competitions. It's something that's only within the framework of the border sports alliances that are organized in our territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52733	Member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, counterpart Zivkov submitted this amendment. We wanted to in some way limit compensation for officials in competitions. We all know that the biggest problem of finance in our clubs, especially compensation for judges, delegates and other officials, is very high. It's particularly expressed in smaller environments. You know for a fact that every municipality has its own sports alliance and through it helps its sports organisations, but by abolishing the transfer to local self-government, they are disabled to help sport more. Literally, sports collectives are on their own. The only thing we can agree on with you, we said in the principle debate, the SRS thinks the sports budget should be bigger, the 17th is the size, if I'm not mistaken, and now we have 17 ministries. I think this is also proof that this government reconstruction is, first of all, a cheap flea make-up. Just as Serbian citizens will feel absolutely nothing better than the government's reconstruction, our sports collectives will not benefit much, especially in finance, when it comes to the Ministry of Sports, regardless of what we don't suspect of your good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52735	Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52736	Thank you, Madam Chairman. No matter what insults you have mentioned, regarding cosmetics and some elements of makeup, I would like to tell you that I accept this amendment on the spot.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52737	Mr. Toolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52738	Madam Minister, I really didn't mean to offend you personally, I was talking about the government. You're part of that government. If you followed me, and if you remember the principle debate, I said that only where we can agree, that the SRS thinks your ministry deserved much more attention and that it should have had more resources, because we think sport is something to invest in, because it deserves our athletes, it deserves our nation. Personally, I think we're a highly talented nation when it comes to sports. Also, the SRS believes the agriculture ministry should have gotten a bigger budget. I figurely said what I think these changes are, when it comes to reducing the number of ministries. It's my political position, my party's position, and I don't think you have any reason to be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52739	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 158. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 162 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52740	Yes, Madam Minister, we want to withdraw this amendment. This is what I talked to Mr. Assistant Minister Dragan Atanasov about, and I just said that this member is fine. There's been a mistake sending this amendment, so I'm pulling it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52741	All right. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 164. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 165th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52742	Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, based on Article 161. I submit an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party on the proposal for a law on sport. In Article 165(1), the words ‘categories and others’ shall be deleted. In order to record fully all athletes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a record must be kept for all athletes. But in addition to keeping statistics in order to protect them in some way, a very important topic is being imposed, which cannot be bypassed. How can the state protect domestic sports against the invasion of foreign league television transmissions paid by public enterprises? It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It is regulated by principle – pay, so look. Even in protected terms provided by UEFA TV, foreign games are being broadcast, and the state can't stop it. Whose interest is it to destroy Serbian sport with our money? This has to be prevented in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52743	Thank you. The 166th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 167 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Knezevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52744	Presidents-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 167 does this more for the public, as MPs are addressed to these members, concerns the exercise of inspection supervision and the conditions under which the sports inspector delivers a solution, according to these points from 1) to 6), what these solutions contain and what they refer to. Since this article refers to inspection supervision, we have submitted an amendment relating to two positions, item 1 and item 3. We suggest that in this Article 167, point 3 is deleted because it says that "it requires the establishment of a sports object that corresponds to its purpose, the cost of the owner of a sports facility", that I do not read any further. As a matter of fact, justifiable reasons certainly exist, and surely this point speaks of good intentions, nothing is disputed. But what's a practical thing is that legally, there's no doubt that the possibilities are weak enough to order the owner because it can be in conflict with both the interest and the will of the owner, and especially since other points in this 1st position have solved some of the situations. Of course, this comment should not be mixed with the need to remove the defects in order for the object to be used. I repeat, this is contained in sections 4 and 5, in these situations where it is necessary to remove the relevant deficiencies, in order for the facility to be used. It's the first part of the amendment. You've just wasted your time, but finish your sentence. ) The second part of the amendment applies... just to read: “The appeal of Article 2 does not hold back the execution of the solution. ” We believe that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on State Administration and the Generalised Rights and the Convention on Human Rights, so there must be two degrees, a possibility of appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52745	The 169th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52746	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, representatives of the Government, we have reached the crown member of this law, that is Article 169. With this member, the legislator wants to transform clubs, alliances, i.e. associations of citizens in companies or in stock companies. No legal system of any country knows the way you wanted to apply it. You wanted to translate social property into state property and thus sell our clubs, alliances as enterprises or as some factories. In order to transform the club from the association of citizens into a company, the club assembly has to make a decision. You're aware of that yourself. But you're trying to do it with one lex special, this law, to do it at a small door. We believe that this member of this law is anti-constitutional and that the Constitutional Court will respond in due time, as regards this law and this Article 169. It's about, like I said, transforming clubs, alliances into companies. There is a saying to our people, Madam Minister: “What is born of the coat of arms does not make the time right. ” Either the Constitutional Court will correct this law or some new government, some new minister when he comes in with a new bill or an amendment and an addition of the law. This law certainly isn't good for our sport. That's what we've been trying to point out all this time, both in the debate in principles and in the discussion in particular. We couldn't convince you. We are sorry about that, but Serbia's athletes will suffer the most about this sort of thing. Thank you. I won't be using any more time since I'm running out of time as an authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52747	The 170th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The 173rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. On Article 174, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic to Article 174. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, with a correction, added after article 174, was submitted by Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 175 of the amendment. The amendment, with correction, to Articles 175, 176, 177, 179, 180, 181 and 182, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP, Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52748	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, Mrs. Minister, I am really sorry that we are not in direct television, but I hope, whenever this is done, that citizens will watch, above all, people who will be involved in the privatisation process of sports clubs. On behalf of the SRS Group, I asked that Article 176 be deleted because we believe this area is already regulated by the existing law. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to have any representative of the Ministry in the matter of privatisation and sale of capital, as you have suggested here. I now have to open one topic; whether you answer me or not, it is up to you, however, for the public and for the fact that I have to. The whole of Serbia knows that we are in the hands of the tycoon, primarily two tycoons, Miskovic and Beka, and that their greatest interest, as well as those whose interests they work for, is that the two largest sports societies are privatised as quickly as possible. It is a well-known fact that Miroslav Miskovic and that he wants to buy a "Red Star" and that he has largely "leaded tentacles" to do so, so that he can make his interests come true. On the other hand, she talked a lot about it in special talks to the media Mrs Verica Barać, but these are facts, Miskovic and Beko are in the area of Autocommand, where instead of the bus station they will build their own shopping centre, direct competition for sports companies "Partizan" and "Red Star". I'll explain how, though you know it. Namely, they are for the bagatella, which would be said, and Mrs. Baraq has repeatedly provided concrete data, bought that land. On the other hand, the workers of the company to which it belongs are in an invisible position because their destiny is at stake. Now we're in a situation, Madam Minister, and you're a woman who's traveled a lot since the Minister of Sports and Youth, and you've seen what the new multi-functional stadiums of large clubs around the world look like, that in the future the two largest stadiums, the "Partizana" stadium and the "Red Stars" stadium will obviously only have a purpose for holding sports events, and they won't have that so-called "Red Stars". Multifunctionality. Who's stopping it? Well, it's these two who stop, until the right time until the right law is passed for them, the privatisation process to grab everything for themselves. If a sports society like "Partizan" and "Red Star" should be in the future, whatever model it is and whatever privatisation process it is to end... If it were as normal as in all countries, as I said, then these newly built facilities would have all the other accompanying facilities, next to the playground and all the following areas: and the mall, and restaurants and all that is needed for the new owner to be able to support himself. We'll see how this process ends. I'm just warning you, on behalf of the SRS, even though we've been talking here in parliament for 20 years, about privatizing large sports companies, not to do it quickly. You won't have much to ask yourself. Those at the top of the state government, who are connected to Miskovic and Beka and other tycoons and will have an interest in doing so. Not you personally, as Minister of Youth and Sports. Indeed, I must now alarm this way all those people who can raise their voice after the adoption of this law so as not to do such a thing. As far as we're concerned, we're going to have specific data, such as those on the mob activity of these two I mentioned, around Autocommand, that we're going public. On the other hand, I must tell you that the fate of the SD is "Partizan" and how it was threatened several years ago when the Secretary-General was Slavko Zecevic, who was a very good friend of Tomislav Nikolic, who stole the mandates of the SRS and founded the party. You know that he wanted to do what Miskovic was going to do with his mob moves in "Red Star". Fortunately, he was expelled from the Sports Society "Partizan" and it was stopped. However, the danger now lurks from other tycoons with whom he and many others are connected. We simply have to tell the citizens. Serbia is so divided as to those who love one club or another, but certainly the citizens of Serbia would not want to be in the hands of such, in the right sense of words, institutional criminals, who are protected by the top of the state government, who do not pay taxes to the state, such as Miskovic, who fire workers, who behave arrogantly everywhere, wherever they buy everything for small money, one or both of our largest clubs comes. As for this part that's related to the treatment of already built buildings on building land, which is particularly not treated by this law, but it's a fact, when we had the opportunity to talk about another law, it's really another nonsense, because it can't be one space, one plot to be treated as building land if there are buildings, whatever they are and whatever they are in. I also have to remind you that the city of Belgrade has tended to stop for years because of such tycoons, and they are doing so day and day, they say the privatisation process is awaiting, the construction of a new stadium where the current stadium is "Partizana". It was a "Switzerland Project" (that was before your term), which had failed precisely because those responsible for buying these big clubs for small money had hitched off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52749	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic to Article 176. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52750	Madam President, this is the same important amendment, which concerns the future privatisation process and the dangers that follow, which I was just talking about. We added item 7) - a natural person who had or has the status of witness associates cannot participate in the privatisation process. I will give you the most obvious example of the haughtiness of Ljubisha Buhe Chumeta, who is a protected witness, who is currently being guarded by 47 police officers of the Republic of Serbia because he has that status, and at this point he gets and finishes the biggest jobs. So, as a witness, Ljubish Buha Chuma's associate gets huge capital, has the protection of the state, has the protection of the police. You know, 47 cops a day, so that's only 47,000 a day, multiply by the number of days a month, by the number of days a year, how many opportunities is it to buy the equipment for the police that it takes, how many opportunities to give to someone whose life is at stake? He's more secure because you can see he's doing all this unhindered. That is why we have proposed that such persons, who gain huge capital and who in a criminogenic way have come to capital, cannot participate in the privatisation process. We will have at the next session of the Defence and Security Committee to discuss this, about those witnesses who are protected, however, I cannot talk about it because the report is marked as a state secret. What must certainly be the state's intensity in the future is that all those who cooperated with the state have the opportunity to protect themselves and blame those from the criminal clans with whom they and how they had ties are also able to be prosecuted and prosecuted. If there was justice in this country and there was insight into what someone was doing, one such man couldn't get that status and couldn't keep working...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52751	Time. Obviously, you've been making sense. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52752	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At first, in considering this amendment, we did not accept it because of any disagreement over the anti-discrimination law, however, since this member only refers to the restriction of anyone who can participate in privatisation and not in club membership or something like that, we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52753	I thank Mrs. Minister. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 178 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 180th Amendment, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prostrem Group. Mr. Pelevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52754	Madam President, distinguished Madam Ministers, this article says that funds from sports clubs, sports companies and other sports organisations are being paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget after the settlement of the cost of selling, commissions and settlements of creditors, and can be channelled into a budget fund for sports financing, for the construction of sports facilities and sports infrastructures. Here, the words "can be directed" are the only things that are insolent to us. It should say, "They must be directed," or "orientated", without "can" and without "must", because "can" means can, but doesn't have to. I don't want to believe it, and I'm sure that's not how it's going to be, that these funds will be used to settle public spending, let's just say, they're going to go to calm the social rebellion, for social peace practically, for wages, pensions, etc. I think that would be really inappropriate and that no one should do it. I want to believe that's true. I just want to point out that a mistake has been made here, I suppose technically, not: "I can be paid", but I should have "to be paid". That's why we've tabled an amendment to this article. So it's quite clear, and I think you agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52755	Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52756	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Of course, the initial idea of the Youth and Sports Ministry was that the potential revenue from privatisation in sport eventually is directed right into some budget fund for sport infrastructure. This idea of ours came as a kind of cry because we think that Serbia's sports infrastructure is nowhere near adequate for the needs, well, after all, not the talents of our athletes. However, the Youth and Sports Ministry has the mandate to take care of sports, but the finance ministry has its mandate to sort of keep the budget systemically. After all, one law is a product of harmonisation with all relevant institutions, including the Ministry of Finance, which considered that, I say, the coloring of funds, the directing of funds from any privatisation would violate the system. In this sense, the joint compromise, since there is a good will and a desire to meet the sport, was that an expression should appear – they can be directed. The plan is, when and if this law comes into force, that then the Minister of Sport always has the space to eventually negotiate for every budget law with the finance minister in the future that these funds are being channelled in the way we wanted and planned, but right now, in accordance with the system, unfortunately, we are not able to accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52757	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 181 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, as well as a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 188, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 189 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Momo Colakovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 190 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Momo Colaković and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, together MPs Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic, together with a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 194 of the amendment, with correction, the Government submitted. The Youth and Sports Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 194. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Excuse me, Madam Minister, do you perhaps want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. (Sladjan Mijaljević, from the place: We have three minutes left. You can speak according to the last amendment, just pick up the phone, and use the time. So, about the amendment to Article 194, here you go. Sladjan Mijaljević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52758	You have successfully defended the law, Madam Minister – except for this one amendment, you have not accepted the others – and how much of your defense today will prove successful in practice, we will see. Today you have indeed received a large number of well-intentioned advice through the amendments, as amendments have also been submitted by MPs of the ruling coalition and opposition. I don't know why those in the ruling coalition or the government didn't report, I guess they didn't break good relations in the coalition, so they didn't defend their amendments. We were really struggling to show you what to accept. Most amendments are meaningful and usable. One number of amendments is also meaningful and would not change the meaning of the law, and all MP groups stood behind them, and you did not accept them again. Well, good. In the Assembly there is also the possibility of amending and supplementing the law, this practice is very much alive in parliament, so we are at your disposal in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52759	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52760	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Once again, on behalf of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and in my personal name, I would like to thank first and foremost the Committee on Youth and Sports, with which this ministry has exceptional co-operation. I thank all MPs, once again, who have tabled amendments to this law, because I read them as a real attempt to improve this extremely important system law and the entire sport. I also thank those MPs who have not submitted the amendments because they have shown confidence in the expertise and knowledge of the entire government that has participated in this, of course us in the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I hope that this law will not be in amendments and supplements too often present in this National Assembly, and I thank again everyone who has contributed to this high-level legislative home of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-24-0.u52761	We thank Mrs. Minister and her associates for an extremely successful debate and dialogue that has been conducted, for an active relationship. Let me conclude the review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I also thank all the MPs who participated in the work, especially those who actively participated in explaining their amendments today. Let me inform you that we will continue the work on March 29th, at 11:30 p.m., with a special session to be addressed by Mr. Stefan File. At 13.00 hours we will continue our usual work. Thank you.
