ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61104	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start this debate in particular to say that during this assembly debate we had the opportunity to further consider the amendments, to consider what the Assembly is thinking about certain amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, as you can see, the Government has adopted some amendments, and one has withdrawn. In that sense, I would like to say that it is clear that the Parliament is setting up a government and the Government wants to provide a majority of its proposals in this assembly and in the spirit of democracy, so we have done. In particular, I will report to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61105	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS on the law on the return of the seized property and the compensation has been made very clear in the principle debate, and we believe that this law cannot be found in the Serbian state's legal system. Article 1, you predicted that the property would be returned, the property that was seized, that I would not waste my time reading the whole article after 9 March 1945. We ask you, Mr. Djelic, on what basis have you set a limit since you've returned your property? Why don't you return the fugitive property? You know the escapees had a lot of property on the land in Serbia's territory. Why, since you state on the basis of which all the laws, 40 and some laws, are the basis for your return of this property, and we claim that's exactly the reason why it can't be done, because by listing the laws you're literally repealing, you're actually confirming our thesis that this property that you want to return has been taken away by law. If something was done under the law, even if it was bad, if the property was taken away, the fee was paid, even if it was unfair, you couldn't change that historic injustice after all these years. It is not disputed that this fee was not just, it is not disputed that these laws were not fair, but you will allow, not after 60 years, but as soon as you leave the government, whoever is the majority of the congregation, would have the reason to repeal the laws that you have passed, because they are extremely bad and extremely harmful to both the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. So we're also asking you, why, since one of the reasons is the return of the seized property and the agrarian reform? Why not agrarian reform since 1919 from the time of King Alexander, when agrarian reform was also carried out on the basis of a previous provision for the preparation of agrarian reform, as it was called, and a programme of agrarian reform was later made and it was thus implemented. What is very interesting, Mr. Djelic, we expect a real answer to this question and I ask you to listen, if you want to participate in the debate, to answer the question – on what basis did you predict the return of land that was exploited by 1968? The Expropriation Act existed, and there will be, in this form or that form. We sincerely hope that the first change in the Expropriation Act will be that, to put aside the power of your nebulous solution from that law, where you have predicted that an investor may enter into possession before an agreement is reached on the compensation for exploited immovableity. So, we draw your attention and draw attention to the public of Serbia above all, that what you do is illegal because you can't change the historical fact with this one law, that this property has been taken away under 47 laws and that the property has been paid compensation, fair or unfair, the question is, but the fact that compensation is paid. That is why we in the SRS believe that, that is one reason, we will talk about the others during the debate, that this law must not be found in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61107	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask that, on the basis of article 90, part of the stenogram that I am about to say be delivered to the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic. On the basis of Articles 27 and 71(1), I request that a session of the Legislative Committee be held, with one item of the agenda, an opinion on compliance with the Rules of Procedure, an amendment to the name of the Bill, the title of the first, the title above Articles 1 and 1 which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Republic of Rade. I ask the Assembly's services to submit this agenda to the President of the Legislative Committee and to be held in the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the cited members of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 1st Amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61108	I would like to thank Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vice-President of the Government, the DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 1 proposing that instead of the date of March 15, 1945, such as some lower limit after which even seized property will be returned, to change that. The point of the amendment is to return the assets, first to the persons who lost that property by the occupation authorities, they were mostly Jews, but they were not only Jews but also some other nationalities, for example Serbs. However, you have adopted that part of the amendment, adopting the LDP amendment, and that is entirely justified, that the victims of the Holocaust are also returned to the property. I think our amendment is broader, because we include, on the one hand, the property that was taken from the occupation authorities, therefore, and the victims of the Holocaust, and the property that was seized before the release of the part of Serbia or all of Serbia, because in that period from the autumn of 1944 to March 1945, a large number of people were taken away from their property, and moreover, a large number of people were killed without any judgments, and then their property was taken away from them. It's extremely unfair not to use any more serious word, so that their legal heirs don't get their assets taken away. I remind you that was done without any court decisions. It is about at least 10,000 people in Serbia who mostly lost their lives because they were wealthy, followed by the takeover of their property. We all know that it was, that it wasn't just individual cases, that it was a pretty massive phenomenon. If we're passing a law on the return of the seized property, then I'm sure we should return that property as well. It is entirely justified that you accepted the LDP amendment to depriving the victims of the Holocaust, but you did not accept our amendment, which, besides the victims of the Holocaust, counted those to whom the assets were seized by the occupiers and not the victims of the Holocaust and those to whom the property was seized after the release of Serbia, and until 15 March 1945. I don't understand at all why you refused this amendment. I think there have been similar amendments. We wrote in the amendment – all assets after the occupation on 15 April 1941, regardless of whether by the occupiers, whether by Serbia's later releasers. I think there were amendments to the other parliamentary groups that you also refused with a similar idea. I really don't understand why you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61109	It was used two minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Đuric and Marija Bulgarčić together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61110	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had no doubt that this failure we saw in article 1 of this law was an oversight, not a result of any intention. That is why we think it is very important that the government agrees with our amendment and accept that, following Article 1(1)'s stance, a new position 2 is adopted, which says that the law we adopt is applied and the return of property, which is the consequence of the Holocaust in the territory that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is today. We have thus confirmed our commitment to really correct these huge injustices that we are now facing as a generation that has this kind of responsibility and on the other hand, we are doing it in the way that it is common in all other European countries that have passed laws with a similar purpose, restitution laws. I am glad that, working with the government, we can remove this legal anomaly and that through partnership with the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia, we can make this law better, better quality and in such a way that I think we are changing the image of the society in which we live. I remind you that the Jewish community existed in Serbia and that it was almost biologically destroyed during the period of occupation authorities in the co-operation of occupiers and local authorities. There is a regulation by Minister of the Council of Ministers Milan Nedic and then Police Minister Milan Acimovic, which practically establishes a regime that was by no means different from the regime in Nazi Germany, if it is spoken of as a Jewish relationship. That is why it is very important to correct this mistake and the failure that we have seen in the law. This was one of the conditions, not blackmail, but one of the principled conditions for supporting LDP's restitution law. Given that this amendment has been adopted, as well as an amendment to Article 35, and we are known as a party with a very clear attitude that often irritates the oldest citizens of Serbia, based on our insistence on tax reforms, although we think we are doing it on their behalf, this time we have taken a move that, above all, takes care of the oldest generation in Serbia, and this is the deadline of the bond's maturity for persons over 70 years of age. The government predicted that the deadline would be cut from 15 to 5, and we had requested and received the government's support for the descent of the age limit to 65 years, so that persons over 65 would receive bonds within 10 years, not 15, as provided for by this law. It is, however, a great step that allows the oldest people in our society to at least at that age in which they find themselves experiencing such a material benefit. Therefore, Mr Djelic, you can count on the support of the LDP Law on Restitution, not only in principle, since it is one of the laws we have been insisting on for years, but also very concretely, because through the amendments adopted this law is absolutely acceptable to our party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61111	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. The amendment under review has been accepted by the government, but without the consent of the committees in charge. He's in search, so the amendments have two minutes if they want to use time to explain the amendments. Anyone else want a word? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61112	The President-in-Office, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia and MPs of the Democratic Party has never been disputed that it is of paramount importance that the injustice done to the Jews during World War II be corrected. The fact that the amendment, which was submitted in the original version, had in it, to say, a hidden danger that it might not only apply to them and that it creates some continuity of power with power from 1941 to 1945, was only disputed for us when we saw that amendment. But given the change made to this amendment, which removes this potential threat that it applies to those whom neither you nor we want to apply, this amendment is acceptable to us and we will vote on this amendment in the day of voting, believing that it is the relationship of society, not only to the victims and the equalization of all those who are innocent victims, but also to one people who suffered terribly in World War II, if we want our people, who also died in World War II, have the right to seek the same understanding in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61113	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61114	Serbia is one of those countries that did not have an indigenous fascist movement at the time in Yugoslavia and we can be proud of that tradition. Although the period was rough, complex, we can be proud of the reaction of citizens and our army who refused to resort to fascist forces in Europe at the time. For this reason, it is fair to show today and in this way a deviation from any forgetting of what happened, not forgetting what happened in Belgrade at the Strom Fair, but also reminding of what was a bright moment of history and rejecting any form of continuity with the Quislin regime of Nedic. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, this is not the last step in co-operation with the Jewish community in Serbia, but not only with it, but also with other victims of the Holocaust. We will work on the project, which has been discussed for so long, and its realisation has not yet begun, and that memorialisation where these crimes took place, where literally in a few weeks 8,000 Jews lost their lives, children and women, entire families completely, and then nearly 30,000 Serbs, Roma and other citizens of Yugoslavia, will be subject to one specific law. Here, in the end, we are undertaking on behalf of the Government that such a law, which will be the subject of consultation with all the communities that I have mentioned here, and to communities that strengthen the memory of the anti-fascist struggle, in Serbia this law will be in front of this Parliament by the end of the term of office of both this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61115	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the historical facts are systematically denied here. So it was never disputed for the SRS that all those who were victims of fascist terror in World War II should be compensated, both in moral, both material, and in political, and in any other sense. But when you talk about the Old Fair camp, I don't know what Serbia has to do with it. The old fair camp was located in Zemun. Zemun was ruled by the Independent State of Croatia, and the camp was held by the Germans. Neither today's Serbia has anything to do with it, nor did Nedic's Serbia have anything to do with it, and I do not understand why the current generation of Serbian citizens and the current generation of Serbian people should bear some sort of material responsibility for what happened in World War II. We told you in the principle debate, about everything that happened in today's Republic of Serbia during World War II claim for compensation, gentlemen, deliver to Germany and deliver it to the present Croatia. And today's Germany isn't as clean as it looks. We have heard rather idealistic stories about the anti-fascist roots of the EU in principle, about how Europe's Day is actually a day of victory, etc. I don't know, Mr. Djelic, do you know the fact that one of the founders of the current German intelligence service, BND, you know who, Hitler's general, General Ryhard Geller, who was hired by the CIA in 1945 to work against the Soviets in East Berlin to collect intelligence. It was his price not to be shot. So he agreed to work for the Americans and agree to work for the Federal Republic of Germany. He formed what is today called GNI. I didn't hear he was some big anti-fascist. So in 1941 to 1945, he participated in a massacre against the Jews. You don't think the current Germany knows that? Why do you run away from Croatia's responsibility for crimes, not only against the Jews, but also against Serbs in World War II, as well as the Roma, well, after all, and all those Croats who did not accept the Ustasha regime, and so were they? Why are you trying to amnesty of the current Croatia's responsibility for the crimes that took place in World War II? The fact that they are now called a democratic state, that within a year they will become a member of the EU, that they have already entered the NATO Pact, does not mean that in ideological and political terms they have nothing to do with Pavelic's Independent State of Croatia. I don't know why you're loading on the back of the Serbian people responsibility for something he's not responsible for. It seems to me that in the background of this whole story there is an attempt to place one sign of equality, which was tried by Josip Broz Tito, that there was no difference between Ante Pavelic, Draža Mihajlovic and Milan Nedic. They were all fascists, they were all occupiers, they were all the same, they were just different colors and banners under which they fought. It is simply not true, nor did Draža Mihajlovic have fascist understandings, nor did he have that understanding, as far as I know from historical literature, Milan Nedic. With Pavelic is a completely different story, he was ideologically on the side of the Nazis and collaborated with the Nazis long before the Germans occupied the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Keep those facts in mind when you discuss the responsibility of the current Serbia for the crimes that took place in World War II, especially when you are trying to burden the current generation of Serbian citizens with some debts that have not objectively occurred in Serbia's territory. The government of Milan Nedićas camped the Old Fair had absolutely nothing to do with it. Even the top management of the Banjica camp had Germans, or Gestapo. Keep those facts in mind when you're discussing this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61117	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61118	Honored Chairman, Honored Fellow Members, Article 1. The draft law on the return of seized property and amendments, which would treat time from 6 April to 17 April 1941, are acceptable to SPO MPs, for example, only OZNA was founded on 13 May 1944. From that moment on they start to liquidate and put people's lists, that they're enemies, that they need to be taken away from their property. Lists of people who were shot and no one on that list could be downloaded in the Maglai Street in Belgrade. We also have an example of Dragisa Vasic, whom the Germans burned down in 1941. He was rehabilitated in the meantime, his property was taken away, but only the renovation of the house belonged to the Germans, the occupier, which is acceptable, but it is unacceptable that one Dragisa Vasic, a top intellectual and a man who sacrificed himself to the highest level of anti-fascist struggle, cannot exercise the right to regain his property. I would ask the minister why he was taken on March 15th as the date of return of the property, since the liquidations by the omens began much earlier and that the crimes and all that preceded the confiscation of property had been long before.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61119	It was used one minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61120	Mrs. Komic, it is a very serious question that is being raised here, and I would therefore ask all MPs to understand how much responsibility follows every spoken word. Mr. Martinovic, we can fight on any other issue, but anyone who speaks for our society with ambition to help Serbia cannot say the words you have spoken. You absolutely manipulate facts and abuse the right that belongs to you as an MP. Do not let us prove our love for Serbia here by counting the personal sacrifices left behind in the wars. I think it is our obligation to build Serbia in such a way as to ensure for our children that we, as a generation, had no right to live in peace, without fear of our own future. No one was talking about the Old Fair, nor were we dealing with addresses where mass crimes were committed. You're right, there were them at the Old Fair, there were them in the sheds on the auto-command, there were them in Banjaca. We're talking about something else. We are talking about the right of the Jewish community, which was wiped out in Serbia in 1941, to achieve the kind of freedom that we are returning today to the heirs of the property that was taken away in 1944 or 1945 and beyond, I am talking about March 1945. The regulation on the addition of Jewish property to Serbia is very clear. It was signed by Milan Nedic. I do not want to draw analogy between Nedic, Pavelic, Draža Mihajlovic and enter into this debate. Let it be done elsewhere, not here in the Assembly. We are looking for, it is good that the government understood this, that even the Jews to whom the property was seized in Serbia have the right to return that property. The property was seized, attached to Serbia and in 1945, the property became the state property of the country in which we live. Buildings in Belgrade, schools, this should be returned to the heirs and thus allowed to correct this historic injustice. Where people were killed, unfortunately, there are too many places and addresses, and in no way do we want to get into that story, it has nothing to do with this amendment. We are talking about the property and the real Jewish community, the heirs of the people who have been killed, that they have the property, on the principles on which everyone else in Serbia has it, nothing more. It's a good thing the government fixed it. It wasn't a deliberate failure. In the consultations, it was clear that this would be resolved, with the adjustments offered. So there's no possibility of any manipulation, that's something that's acceptable, but don't pull analogies between Chetniks, Ustashas, Partisans and get into that story. It's an insult to people who have already been killed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61121	Three minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with Mr Jovanovic that we should all work in the interests of our children, but I don't think our children's interests are being done by the current political situation and the current Serbian state being built on historical lies and untruths. I am trying to convince both Deputy Prime Minister and fellow MPs that there was no anti-Semitism in the Serbian people in World War II as a mass phenomenon and that what was happening in Serbia, in the rest of Serbia, where the intelligence had this famous Nedic government, was happening, above all, because the rest of the Serbian state was under German rule. There were hot heads in the Serbian people, who, for ideological reasons or for the sake of modernity, because of the times in which they lived, flirted with the ideas of Nazism, but they were individuals. In the end, a famous Jewish intellectual from Belgrade, Enrico Josif, gave recognition to the Serbian people for courageous conduct in World War II, when Serbia was occupied. So those phenomena recorded in Germany, NDH, Hungary, were not in Serbia. There was no massive support for the Serbian people with Nazi ideas. Crimes against Jews took place in Serbia, first of all, in the direction of a German occupier. It is not disputed that the Jews will be compensated, but I don't understand, Mr Jovanovic, why don't you direct these claims for compensation to the present Germany? Why would yours, my children or children of any Serbian citizen, be responsible for what the German occupier did in Serbia? That's what we don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61123	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61124	I think it's paradoxical to discuss here whether the property of the Jewish community in Serbia would have been taken away if Serbia hadn't been killed in World War II. Of course not. No one said that Serbian society is an anti-Semitic society and that people here could hardly wait to deal with the Jews. We are talking about the fact that the Jewish community in Serbia suffered, among other things, because of the fact that there were associates of the occupation forces. There were Queensling authorities in Serbia. Why can't we ask Germany for that? Because the regulation, on the basis of which this property has been seized, is very clear. Article 1 says: "The property of those Jews who were citizens of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia on 15 April 1941 or without citizenship, but they are located in the Serbian area, belongs to Serbia, without any compensation. "This property became property of a new state in 1945. We just want to correct this historical injustice, which we at the same time consider great and correct towards the members of other nations. It has nothing to do with identifying Serbian society with any other society that has anti-Semitism as a value, but we also have to make a difference between those who have been a disgrace to Serbia, and today they are a disgrace. This constant revision of history, whose hostages we have been to for the past few years, puts us in a position to even discuss whether victims need to be made after 70 years and in this way to provide some sort of ex post justice. It's a good thing the government accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61125	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now if we're going to take things to the absurd, then we Serbs too were killed in World War II in that part of Serbia run by Nedic's government. Tell who we Serbs are going to apply for compensation, is there any international or domestic instance where members of the Serb people will seek compensation for the crimes that took place in World War II? That's one thing. The second thing, Mr Jovanovic, was passed in 1946 by the Law on the irrelevability of the legal rules passed before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation. Under the force of the law, the regulation of the Council of Ministers of General Milan Nedic is declared legally invalid. I don't know why you're calling on her now when she's been declared invalid for another year after World War I ended, as if she's never been brought in. If we're going to present all the historical facts, then let's not keep quiet about those that don't suit us. That law has been passed and that law is still in force today. Let's just say, in Vojvodina, you sign up for a land book, you know what law it's based on? On the basis of this law, because the law stipulates that all the regulations adopted before 6 April 1941 are applied as technical rules if there are no applicable legal regulations governing certain matter. For example, the laws on land books were passed in 1930 and 1931 in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. After that, there was no law on land books, and throughout the course of the Socialist Yugoslavia, the entries in the land book were made under the 1946 law. It's facts, if we're going to read the facts. If we don't, then let's say -- modern Serbia, it's Serbia raised on lies, on lies and on just the facts that suit us, and what doesn't suit us, we'll push it under the carpet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61127	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61128	I think Seselj would warn you if he were here in the O.R. right now, I'm sure of something like that. Of course, in 1946, the law was passed, and it describes among other things the country with which a portion of our society has been brutally accounted for for for years as a country that was not so bad, even though it had a very clear attitude and expressed values, for example, on the matter that we are now discussing. The law was passed in 1946, put out of force and declared in vain all legal norms of occupation authorities, as you said, were absolutely right, but the consequences remained. The law was passed, but no property was returned. Now the property is coming back and we're talking about it being compromising for society to return the property to one part of our society, and the other part to ignore, just that. You're absolutely right, all legal standards have been put out of force, but the consequences remain, and we're discussing it today, nothing else. As for the loss of the Serbian people, if we are talking about compensation, the war damage then the interstate agreement between Yugoslavia and Germany, the agreement between Tito and Brant, the issue has been resolved. Now, don't open the discussion here about compensation for war damage, highway, nuclear power plant Krško, the money we got. It's a second generation topic. Here we are discussing a very specific issue, the law on restitution, the return of property. You're right, legal standards have long been declared void, but the consequences remain. The property wasn't returned then. The Nedić Regulation has been repealed, but the property has not been returned to those to whom the property was seized under this Regulation. We want to make it right now. First of all, Mr. Martinovic, it's a symbolic gesture. Unfortunately, there are very few heirs to the Holocaust victims, almost no one survived the 1941 reckoning in the Jewish community in Serbia, and that is a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61129	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Please close this line with this circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61130	If that regulation, Mr. Jovanovic, of 1942, was declared legally invalid, I don't know why you're waving with it in the National Assembly. The communist government, in order to avoid any confusion, has made no difference after World War II when it comes to taking away property between Serbs, Jews, Croats or anyone else. The SRS is generally against the adoption of restitution laws for many reasons. If there have been cases of unfair confiscation of property after World War II, that injustice cannot be corrected by making a new injustice after 70 years, so the current generation of Serbian citizens who are already overindebted, yesterday you were in charge of a new billion dollars if I am not mistaken. Excuse me, who will bear the costs of this financial restitution to which you will resort in this law? Tell me where the money is, is there any money? If there's money, great, here's the money, but there's no money. The people cramp in debt, they're too long, people jump off bridges, they kill each other, and so on. You think that this, present or future generation of Serbian citizens, by taking away their children's mouths, will correct, as you say, the injustice that was done after World War II. The question is, in all cases, whether the confiscation of property really was an injustice. It is impossible, as today is impossible for someone to get rich in a fair way in two years, so buy five hotels, two mines, and five expensive cars. Even after World War I, it was not possible to get rich so quickly in a fair way. You think all those renters, mine owners, hotels, hundreds of acres of agricultural land were fair? No, they're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61131	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61132	It's precisely because you yourself said you didn't want to distinguish between the victims of that time and support this amendment, because it was an accidental difference, and we pointed out. It is good that the government has accepted, that it has accepted DS, ZES, that I believe other parties will vote for such a thing, that it is not disputed. Everything else you're talking about has no place to discuss in this article. Whether we need a law on restitution or not, why we bring it, how fair it is, who will finance it, these are the topics we discussed in the debate in principle and there is a Article 36, where it is defined that payment will be made, from where funds are provided, from privatisation against which campaigns are conducted in Serbia and from the funds obtained by the conversion of land that is inconclusive and the third is the budget. So, that's true, the citizens of Serbia will finance the law on restitution, but the citizens of Serbia have achieved some benefit, and it's mostly important for the sake of legal certainty, and as they acquired their wealth before World War II, don't let us discuss it today. It has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61133	A circle of replicas has been completed. National MP Bojan Đurić, then MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61134	I think you'll soon be entitled to the replica, Mr. Martinovic. (President: National MP, the chairman decides. ) Mr Jovanovic spoke of political or civilizational arguments against this attitude of the SRS, i.e. Mr Martinovic. I just have to point out the situation that there were certain legal forgeries here in terms of rejecting any kind of responsibility of the then Quislin government for what was going on beyond the formal boundaries of the rest of Serbia, or above all in the Stari Simishte camp. And then and today, Mr. Martinovic, there is one rule in both our and international law which is called "non refluman" that prohibits any country from delivering a person to the territory of another country, or across the border, or in any other way, if there is a threat of death, murder or any kind of persecution due to racial, religious, ethnic hatred, discord or impatience. If you want to talk about Serbian victims, I think that same rule should apply to refugees from Republika Srpska who were caught in Serbia in the summer or early autumn of 1995 and forced to return to the territory of Republika Srpska, in fact at Arkan's camp in Erdu, where many of them died and most of them passed with severe physical or mental consequences. The Republic of Serbia has never paid compensation to those persons or their successors, although it has responsibility for transferring them to the territory of another country, i.e. Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, however you wish. The same rule must apply to the behaviour of Nedic's government, namely the Quislin authorities during World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61135	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61136	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, Nedic's rule was not sovereign and no one asked if the Germans from Belgrade would transfer Jews to Zemun. So Nedic didn't decide that. Secondly, Mr. Djuric, I'm sorry, but you LDP are hypocritical. In World War II, it was immoral to deliver people where you know their human rights will not be respected, and today you are in favour of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, although you know that all those Serbs who have been delivered to The Hague tribunal, and there is Vojislav Seselj living evidence, Slobodan Milosevic, living evidence, etc. There's absolutely no respect for human rights. Tell me, Mr. Djuric, what is the fundamental difference? Release the ideological fog on the EU-NATO anti-fascism pact. What is the fundamental difference between what the Germans are doing in World War II and here in Serbia in Belgrade and what is happening in The Hague today? What is this court that in eight years' time, Vojislav Seselj can't even make a first-degree verdict? Isn't that fascism? Isn't that a violation of human rights and freedom? Here you changed God by force and violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The regulations prescribed co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Directly applied the Hague tribunal's status. Ask God what you haven't done to deliver live Serbian meat to The Hague, people who don't provide indictees or elementary medical care, where people raise their hands on themselves, where judgments don't take place for five, six or eight years. Excuse me, what is the fundamental difference between Hitler and those who are leading the EU, NATO pact today and your famous Hague tribunal. It doesn't make any difference. So it's all essentially the same. The Serbian people were the victim and then the Serb people are the victim today. You don't want to admit it for certain daily political reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61137	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61138	You see, Mr. Martinovic, you obviously draw inspiration in the performances of people who prove that you are not lonely in your experience of the world. Yesterday, in the UN General Assembly, the statesman spoke equally inspiringly in such a way that most of the normal work of the congregation left the congregation during his speech. We don't want to leave parliament's session, but I don't think such ideas really belong to the Serbian Parliament. Comparing concentration camps, killing people in mass crimes with lawsuits that run the way you describe it is more than inappropriate. Which I really don't understand, when such a conclusion can lead to someone watching our debate here. If you want to equalise the concentration camps and the decision of this country that because it was unable to take care of itself, so it has done of itself what it has never been in its history, now suffers the shame it has been exposed through the trials of individuals in The Hague tribunal, compare with the murders of hundreds of thousands of people. Then it's not politics, it's a domain of medicine that I don't want to go into. But spare the LDP of any kind that way. There are no touching points between our policies and that is something that is absolutely natural for us. But if we're talking about a relationship to such important issues, then that goes beyond politics. It's no longer a question of our program, it's a matter of elemental human morality and decency. He must exist in every party in every politician, including you. Don't compromise all of us sitting here like this, because we're not gonna get out of here because we're not visiting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61139	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. And this is really the last round of replicas. After that, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61140	Madam Chairman, I address you and I call on Members 106 and 103, and please all of us together stick to what the Rules of Procedure prescribes, which is to stick to the agenda. I really ask you not to allow each other's debates in which someone gives himself the right to from his ideological beliefs or his political discourse on the past, the present and the future offends others, demeaning the entire peoples and their history and their tragedies. Please don't let it. We're here today discussing the restitution law. It has nothing to do with ideology, it has nothing to do with history where anyone might be able to see who was right and who was wrong. What is the meaning and message of this law is that some people have been wronged at some point. That we, as a society, are obliged to correct this injustice within the limits of the opportunities this society has, not to count the victims here, to determine whether someone was an innocent victim or deserved it, and if someone provoked someone, so he got what he needed to get. So it must not be the subject of our debate today. I ask you to remind every speaker of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61141	There's no breach of Article 106 for the space of reason that the content of which you've explained is going through replicas. So my choice is either not to allow replicas or that, when I allow replicas, I make sure that the exchange of replicas between the MPs, who sometimes by nature of things, and sometimes on purpose, and that is the parliamentary communication they cause, or create a basis for the replica of another fellow MP. If I have ever failed to respond, in the contents of discussions that were not replicas, but about the topic of the agenda, I am truly sorry, and from now on I will very carefully as the debate on the topic of the agenda reminds all those who do not know what the Holocaust is, to the definition of the Holocaust. If there is a lack of knowledge of what a Holocaust is, why a Holocaust is different from any other terrible crime in the history of human civilization, then it is contained in the definition of a Holocaust. I ask you, regardless of your political views, opinions, ideologies, that we are very careful to make sure that in the search of particulars, if the theme of the holocaust is carefully held to the definition that this is the only event that has been defined by law and in reality the industry of the death of one nation is achieved because it is different, and by the decisions of another people which it has made, so I warn you, and the decision to allow replicas is made in accordance with my assessment of the fact that such is the best way to look after the agenda. Right to replicas, please use according to this institution in the Rules of Procedure. If we get carried away and I notice that it's become a routine that the deal is causing a replica, then as you know, giving the right to a replica is the discretionary right of the chairman and will not be given, which I don't think will be used by the atmosphere at the National Assembly session. So now there is another MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, who is entitled to a replica, and MP Mirko Chikiriz wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61142	Article 27. I'd like to join what Mrs. Kolundji said, and what you just said in your presentation. This isn't just a day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61143	People's MP, I didn't say I broke my rules of procedure so you couldn't join me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61144	But this isn't just a day in the National Assembly, and I'd like to pray that we stick to the subject of the agenda because the eyes of the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61145	Please, MP, there's been an explanation. The discussion that led to the intervention of the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija did not take place during the time given for the interpretation of the amendments or was given to the president, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or given to parliamentary groups, but through replicas. The replicas cannot be applied to Article 106 on the obligation to speak to the MPs on the agenda, because the replica by nature of things comes out of the subject of the agenda, so please...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61146	All I ask is that in the future in the debate, we stick to the subject of the agenda and talk about the return of property. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61147	Please, let us respect the Institute of Freedom and Rights which enables us to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Abuse of rights is just as bad as not having the right. I ask you with gratitude that we have an awareness of what freedoms and rights we have at our disposal in the Rules of Procedure. So, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am truly not going to answer for this word, nor am I going to tell Mr. Jovanovic that he is insane and sick, nor am I going to count the victims...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61149	No, that's not what you're going to say to the People's Messenger, because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. You have misused the right to replication and I ask you to take this warning about the violation of the Rules of Procedure very seriously. National MP Ivan Andric wants to speak within the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go. Excuse me, MP, you've been registered in the electronic system. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61150	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidents and Representatives of the Government, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would indeed return to what is the essence of this law, which is the correcting of some historical injustices, and I would therefore look back and appeal to all my colleagues, not to be used in exchange for thesis and not to deal with the massage of historical half-truths for ideological purposes. Abuse of historical half-truths often leads to violation of law, and to God and to crime. And that may be why it is good that we do not engage in historical half-truths, because if we open up the sites of anti-Semitism in Serbia, then we might be able to remind some of them to look at Vladice Nikolajev Velimirovic's book - Messages to Serbs through the Dark Window. Well, then let's ask ourselves a question about anti-Semitism in Serbia. We better get back to the subject and not discuss these things, there's a lot of us here who know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61151	One minute and 14 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. You have no right to a replica. You can talk about the agenda theme, within the time of the parliamentary group. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61152	; Article 107 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. What I was about to say, a little while without wanting to insult anyone, I wanted to quote one deep human...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61153	You cannot, MP, abuse the right to receive the word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't abuse that right. That's why there's a member of 103 who binds me. People's MP, I listen carefully to everything the MPs say and I hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post:I guess I have the right for two minutes) If you do not know who says you do not have the right to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I refer you to the Rules of Procedure and to the powers of the chairman. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61154	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 2 defines decisions on the basis of which the property has been seized and which will be subject to return. What we've pointed out to this member is that the list of these decisions does not cover a number of decisions that have been taken by important lives. There have been decisions from 1944, which have been taken away from property, and these are decisions of the anti-fascist National Liberation Assembly of Serbia and the presidency of anti-fascist Assembly of Serbia. Furthermore, there are numerous decisions made by the municipal congregations that the property was taken away from. The law does not cover cases where property was taken under duress without any decision. There is a number of evidence that the property has been seized through legal transactions, but under threat, far below the market value. We do not say that it is easy to prove, but the law had to open up the possibility that everyone whose property was taken away in such a way could very easily prove that they were owners of property until another moment, that they had then stopped being, whether there was a decision or not and in these cases the proof of property should have been left to all the damaged parties. The other thing, the law has one serious illogicality. First of all, it relates to the property that was seized right after World War II, but the matter of the Expropriation Act, which was actually taken through expropriation, is the only thing that was far below the market value. So it doesn't cover the post-war period, it's legal until 1968. That's another serious flaw. In 1968 amendments to the law on expropriation, amendment and addition of the law were passed, but the property was continued to be seized in the case of construction buildings, until the change of the law from 1999, and in the case of construction land until 2001. Only after 1990 in the case of buildings and only after 2001 in the case of construction land was a real market fee paid for the property. There is no reason, if the matter of the law applies to the law of expropriation, not to be in 1990 and 2001, because it is the fundamental thing for this law to be just, not to make new injustices. Another serious flaw that we point out is that in a large number of cases, people who have lost their assets will not have the right to return, because they are not only covered by these formal acts. So, on the one hand, the number of persons who have the right to return property, and on the other hand, the amount, the other members of the law, is practically impossible to return to nature. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted the amendment, with a rather offensive explanation. The same explanation refers to 99% of the amendments submitted, that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solutions are better. If MPs had submitted such an amendment, the Legislative Committee would have rejected it as a legally non-existent one. You can always say in an explanation – my proposal is better. What kind of explanation is that? I'm asking that my time count, Mrs. Comic, I'm done, but these minutes and a half from an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61155	Thank you. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61156	As part of this law, I have proposed that, in addition to the rules set out to include the law on declaring the general property of rural heritage, pastures and forests, land urban property and similar communities, as well as border, property municipalities. My goal was to cover the laws by which individuals were taken away from their property. Therefore, it is incomprehensible to me where it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the rules laid down in Article 2 are precisely defined on the basis of which the property to be recovered is to be returned in a manner prescribed by the draft law. The fact is that this law existed, and by it was taken away, either it existed or it didn't exist. I don't see any reason why there's a kind of discrimination against those people who are damaged under this law. I would understand that my argument was that the problem was solved by this law or that it wasn't true, but if there were cases like that, I think it would be logical that the Government and my amendment had accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61157	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61158	To all those who watch this transmission, and on behalf of whom Mr Gojkovic, as on behalf of the SP, has submitted amendments, I owe an apology because Mr Gojkovic today is not in a position to explain these amendments due to urgent obligations, so I will try to do it on his behalf. In fact, we also at the law school in our time had the knowledge that about 38 legal regulations were directly infested with personal property on various grounds, and citizens were, by these grounds, illegally deprived of their property. However, we also see through the amendments submitted by the MPs, as well as through the amendment submitted by Mr Gojkovic, that there were other forms or grounds by which the property was taken away. One of these forms in which property was seized under duress and coerced by the citizens is the property seized by the state of the gift contract or by a declaration of a gift made for the benefit of a state of a social legal person, a peasant working cooperative, etc. Let's not forget that it's time after World War II. Let us not forget that the great resistance was also with peasants forming peasant working cooperatives, but that then the government had a simple recipe for anyone who opposed it - simply, two labels in leather coats knock on your door, bring a contract, if you don't sign a contract that you give the country to the Peasant Working Cooperative or you don't sign any other contract that you give to the country, you know what's next. You're being followed by years of prison, you're being taken away from the entire property, followed by maybe a naked island. I would ask, since Mr. Dusan Petrovic is here now to understand the views of the SPO, I believe he understood, but I say this for the public, restitution is something that is the basis of the SPO programme. When we write laws and decide whether in the final version we will uphold the law, we stick above all to our programming principles, stick to the state's interest, but above all, we have tried to protect the best way to protect the interests of those who have been deprived of unfair property and who have not used it for almost 70 years. They've lost a huge amount of material goods, and in that human suffering, that humiliation, that immaterial damage and googogue these people went through, it's really too much to talk about. That's why we, in the debate on amendments, are going to try to really point out, without any ideological prejudice, because people are being taken away from property of different nationalities, different ideologies, to try to get as close as possible to that time and bring that time back. There are many films played, one of them is "The deceased is getting the most beautiful," in which in a clear way the resistance of peasants is being given the country to dig up a mine in which there is no bull ore, but OZNA did what she did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61159	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, you have not called me. ) National MP, this amendment has been read. He is the first to follow the amendment to Article 2. Check the stenogram. Please perform in a stenogram. I would ask the Stenographic Service and the Secretary to enable MP Aleksandr Martinovic to see the stenogram, i.e. the question of "if anyone wants a word" and the chronological order of the amendment to Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61160	With this amendment, we asked to delete the title above Articles 3 and 3. This is the meaning of individual expressions, and now there are 14 points in this Article where, indeed, in a certain way, it is simply auctioned with some concepts. You can't change the concept of property by some special law. By definition, property is a set of property rights. For the purposes of this law, you treat the property object with property, and let us not talk about these other concepts – what is a request for rejection, what is the applicant's request. Don't do it, it's not good. The main thing about this plan and all of our members in this law is this. It cannot be interpreted as imposing any general obligation on the States to return the property transferred to them before they ratified the Convention. Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe in March 2003. Protocol one to the Convention has become binding on us since that date. All that's happened before, we don't have the obligation as a state to regulate it the way you do. If, God forbid, you pass this bill, then you give dangerous material to both the EU and all proven enemies of the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia to call on this law and press on this issue. What do you say? He did not impose any restrictions on the freedom of the Contracting States to determine the scope of the restitution of assets and to choose the conditions under which they agree to return the property rights of former owners. You will impose here on most of us that we have allegedly agreed and you will create an unnecessary obligation at the expense of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens from which we will not be able to get out of it, trying allegedly to solve an injustice, and you have no credibility to solve injustice. Why? Here, answer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what happened with 3416 apartments that were divided in 1997 by the City Assembly. The committee of directors sat down, ordered the public defender what needed to be done. If you can't act on your current decisions in the current time, where you express public interest, with which right do you enter the "guilty drin" 70 years ago? You can't solve this, you don't want to solve this, and you want to handle this at all costs under pressure, but God doesn't even know what it's hard to put pressure on you, since you're their cups here. You create an obligation for children who are yet to come, for all taxpayers in this over-indebted Serbia, and then the principle of public interest, which must guide you, prohibits you from giving such a bill. You didn't give restrictions on citizenship, you didn't limit your residence, you didn't give up any restrictions that could be incorporated into this law, but you boast that you're turbo-liberal, all at will, and you only heat up expectations with some, and some don't hide, you know, and themselves, they tell you here, the folks will come back. That's why the German ambassador was in public reading. He's monitoring you. Have you met the conditions for what you've received? You've received that you're in power. You remember Vela boasting that he was bringing money from Hungary in the cabinet. Do you read this WikiLeaks and these dumplings? Each of these dispatches recognizes the interest of the enemies of the Serb people. You serve them, not for the sake of righting wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61161	People's MP, I'm asking you about the agenda. Member of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61162	I'm talking about Article 3, points 1 to 14, because there's also a claimant and claimant and subject to compensation, etc. I'd ask you to read the bill, so you can run to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61163	I read the amendments to both yours and the basic text of the law. So your amendment is to erase it in a search of details. Please explain it and do not turn away from the topic of the agenda. That's a warning. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61164	I'm just gonna keep recording this. I'm very specific about one point at a time. So, calling on some moral principle, calling for justice, not wrongly, because she had that dialectic a few days ago. You're not authorized to do that. You don't have credibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61165	The People's Parliament, the amendment that you have submitted, is that the title above Article 3 and Article 3 are deleted. Please, article 106 and speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61166	Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about my own way of asking for a refund, the right to return of property, the right to compensation, the basis of compensation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61167	People's MP, there's a search going on in detail. A member of the Rules of Procedure obliges you and all other MPs to speak on the subject of the agenda in a search for details. The topic of the agenda is a search in detail. You have time for your amendment, as well as time for a parliamentary group, as has the president, but it is an obligation to respect a member who explicitly obliges me to apply criminal measures, if the MP refuses to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61168	Mrs. Komic, I'd like to draw your attention if there were a point 3 in Article 3, under the law of state...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61169	People's MP, I'd like to draw your attention to the text of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61170	My amendment reads - to delete Article 3. What I'm asking to delete is point 3 in Article 3 and that's an act of state. My amendment also refers to the right to return the property or compensation referred to in point 6, my amendment applies to point 8 of the compensation base, my amendment also refers to point 11 of the application, and to point 12 of the return of the property or of the compensation is understood, etc. I don't want to read this view of the promoters on these terms, but I point out how wrong it is written and when I use an argument to prove it's wrong, I have to put it in one context, that this law has no constitutional basis, that there is no such obligation of the Republic of Serbia, and if you create the obligation of the Republic of Serbia by this law, then you practically put a stone around the doors of the Republic of Serbia to sink it. So there is no obligation, no constitutional, no international. Why are you racing with the EU, who hates Serbia more?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61171	Out of the eight minutes recorded, you took five minutes, of which two minutes were the basis for the interpretation of the amendments and three minutes from the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varta, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremon together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group, to Article 3 and to all members who mention the words "Agency and Agency for Restitution". The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61172	Article 3 speaks of the meaning of certain terms, which are used in this law, that is the 1st member to which we have submitted the amendment at point 4. where the word "age" is replaced by the words "government" to be called according to our proposal "the return management of property and compensation". When I received the Government's opinion, I was convinced, since it was already on another, third page, that you had adopted this amendment, because it was so petty for us to have this material, that it "does not accept", I did not notice and I did not believe that you had adopted only two, three amendments, and I was simply amazed, believing in the moment that you finally realized that the importance of the jobs being carried out under this law deserved to be carried out by the authority of the government, and I was glad for a moment that this amendment was adopted. However, it states nicely and clearly that the amendment is not accepted with the explanation given for 99% of the rejected amendments, which is that the proposed solution is more appropriate. I will explain to the citizens of Serbia why I find this solution inappropriate, inappropriate, but that the SNS amendment is what you had to adopt. Jobs and responsibilities for the return of property cannot be entrusted to the public agency. According to the Law on Public Agencys, they can carry out, primarily, professional and developmental tasks, where ongoing government supervision is not necessary. You know that, because it's written in the law like that, just to avoid the agency's direct political surveillance. However, agencies are mainly founded where the agency can, unlike the authorities of the administration, do certain tasks more effectively, at less cost, and, if possible, finance from the price of services it performs. You are the key difference that affects certain tasks carried out by the agency or by the authority of the administration here completely overlooked and the need for the control of the government and the control of parliament over the enforcement of this law and the need for this supervision is carried out and what has been excluded by the agencies, as a need for direct supervision and here necessary, you have put in the same plane. It's not about any development and professional business that the Public Agency Act says, it's really about the work of the Authority in the most important way. You are Mr. Petrovic's lawyer and I believe you understand what I'm talking about, and since it is worth over two billion euros in work, do you consider it appropriate that the agency over which the government cannot have direct supervision and control, including this Parliament, by definition, by the law in force, should do this job in this formation as you have suggested? You know that there are major problems in the legality of the work of many of the agencies that exist, that you as a Government and we as a Parliament and citizens of Serbia, whose service you and we are in, are not in a position to present to the public in the best, most efficient and legal way how much of these agencies we control. In this business, it's inadmissible. The obligation to return property is a civilization obligation and no one can dispute it, both international obligations and obligations on the way to EU accession to the international community. Let's not be surprised that we left one late job for the final moment. That is why it is totally unacceptable that one so responsible and politically sensitive, and these days the debate has shown this, is conducted by a public agency over which you have only the necessary and incomplete control as the government that this law will need to enforce. What explicitly excludes and disqualifies any agency to do this job is primarily the Public Agency Act, and I really don't know why you didn't accept this amendment. Obviously, the need to form an agency here is the need, some people are hired again, the problem will again be as well as how much they pay for it, whether any supervisory authority, whatever we call it, has the right to have the ability and expertise to have insight into the work of that agency, and when public dissatisfaction arises because of the way that much of the work is undefined here about value estimates, fair additions, where there is not enough paid under some previous laws, creating a public problem, then you will say, what do we do, there are legal constraints? Let me say it again. . (President: Excuse me, MPs. It's my fault. In the sixth minute, I accidentally interrupted you. I'm just asking you to sign up. If I knew when you shut me down, and neither do you. Nothing, I'll say it's totally unacceptable. We, according to the Agency Act, are engaged in professional and development affairs, neither because of the political sensitivity of the value of this job, nor the need to satisfy the justice that this job is done by an agency over which the Government has no direct control, nor the Assembly and the Government are making necessary supervision. When problems arise with the implementation of this law in practice, and many undefined criteria will arise for which the legal follower is, for example, in charge, which we will later talk about whether and how much to supplement then an unfair compensation for some already returned property and when produced by large problems, you will say – we are powerless, the Law on Public Agency is like that. You've passed a law on restitution, Colloquially speaking, which now does not allow us to interfere. As one of your prominent members who is not present today said in his own time, Mr Djindjic - don't let us get into a situation where something is factual and then say we are powerless. This is a time not to create conditions for the fact that it is going to harm the citizens of Serbia, respects the government, but also the reputation of this parliament, where it is possible to change this member of the law in a timely manner by amendment, as the SNS has suggested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61173	With another apology, you were unwittingly disfellowshipped from the microphone for six minutes. At that moment, it is a minute and 45 seconds, two minutes of amendments, and then four minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61174	In the light of why this amendment is rejected, as in other reasons – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more appropriate. I'll show you that the proposed solution is not more appropriate, but more appropriate than this proposed by the amendment. We have responded to the definition of the basis for the compensation, which you consider to be the total value of the compensation subject matter established by the competent authority in accordance with this law, and in accordance with this law, the base of the compensation is calculated in this way. First, the total amount of compensation cannot exceed two billion euros. That's where you put the line. You further said to obtain a basis by establishing in euro the amount of compensation, in particular for each individual case, by multiplying the amount of compensation by the coefficient to be paid in respect of the amount of two billion euros, that is your maximum, and the amount of the total collection of the compensation base established by the compensation rights, increased by the estimate of the unconfirmed bases referred to in Article 5. It follows that people who can't afford to get their property back in nature, and you've made an effort by this law to be as small as possible, that natural vomit, that they will receive compensation in the form of government bonds in the amount that can't exceed 500 000 euros ever, at best, is 500 000 euros, and can be much less than 500 000 euros thanks to these coefficients of Article 31 and this putting in relation to the total mass with the total sum of the compensation base. Why? If the grounds for the compensation are bloated and some assets that can't be re-evaluated in nature are estimated at three million, so it's done in a large number of cases, so they get involved with those who need to vomit based on expropriation by 1968, and then it's done to make them all others, then it'll turn out that someone for the property that didn't come back in nature, which is two million, in estimated value gets 30,000 euros, theoretically. And that's the key injustice of the law. That's why you have to say it. You're saying you refused the amendment because it's inappropriate. What's inappropriate about it? Your need to refute all those you do not wish to return to natural property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61175	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61176	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, in Article 3 I have suggested that point 10 be changed and that, under the notion of the former owner, a natural or legal person (indemnity, professional and professional association of doctors, lawyers, etc.), which was the owner of the seized property at the time of residence. The adoption of the proposed amendment particularly highlights examples of legal entities that may appear as former owners of the seized property. I would only give an example of the Vojvodina Bar Association, which was founded in 1921, and many lawyers have contributed for decades to the acquisition of the property itself of the Vojvodina Bar. It's a similar situation with professional medical associations. I think it was convenient to point out that, when legal persons are already mentioned, the professional professions of doctors and lawyers are also prominent in addition to the duties of legal persons. That's where I think of those who have continuity to this day and legal follow-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61177	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61178	I'll read Article 4. - property is returned in natural form or compensation is made in the form of state bonds of the Republic of Serbia and in money in accordance with this law. With this amendment, we are looking for a subsidiary restitution and we propose that Article 4 is changed and said – that property is returned in natural form or compensated for other relevant assets from the state fund, and market cash compensation is paid only if return in natural form is not possible. An explanation that it is necessary by law to provide for the substitution or replacement restitution of assets taken from other assets from the assets of the Republic Fund and, according to the records of the Republic Property Directorate and the replies given to the questionnaire from the European Commission. The law on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and the return of land that has passed into social property on the basis of the agricultural and land funds and confiscation because of the non-execution of the compulsory purchase of agricultural products, under the Law on the return of utrts and grasslands to villages to use and the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities. We believe that the proposed solution would hurt Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. Besides all this, we think this is a fairer solution. The state took it, the state returned it. It's simpler, immovableity is given for immovableity. Under number three, this solution is not burdened by the additional budget of the Republic of Serbia, nor by citizens who give their resources to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the property was not taken away by individuals of the Republic of Serbia, but by states, since the state has the proper assets, so wherever possible, we believe it is necessary. The reason for the rejection of this amendment is that it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill, and I would like to mention once again that we in the Law on Restitution, which we handed over to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1991, envisioned this solution. So, restitution of property, substitution or cash compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61179	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Nikola Novakovic, representative of the URS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I promised to remind myself that it was once an MP, explaining and discussing individually according to each amendment, always started like this – this law is bad, but this amendment is good. So in that paraphrase, I point out the position that I deeply represent and in which I sincerely believe and I claim that there is no restitution, no honest, no fair, no matter what we call it, no substitution. So without substitution, there's no restitution. This is all the rest of the story of budget spending, through one or another form of compensation, which in its essence will not ultimately be compensation, but will be the payment of some fees that have nothing to do with either the market, or the value of real estate, or the expectations that have so far been caused by all those citizens who have the right or hope at least to achieve it in connection with the application of one of these laws. So, in voting day, I'm going to be very, very supportive of this amendment. My message is that the other amendment, that I don't always say the same thing now, is that this law is bad, and this amendment is good, that they have this message in them, that without substitution there is no restitution, it will have my undivided support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61181	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61182	We have reached a controversial Article 4, where indeed parliamentary groups show the way they see the solution to this problem. Although what I think will happen with this law at the end, it will be one bubble of soap, because there are great hopes, there are great expectations, and there are little possibilities. The time has passed, if we're talking about historical injustice, it's a little bit degutant, because the historical injustices and any injustices that have been done cannot be corrected, and at least they can be corrected by the laws. The material goods will partly, as a colleague said, be paid to some. Among other things, there is still an innumerable number between fifty-hundred hundred thousand people killed by various grounds in that period, in the calculation of existing and non-existent ideology, existing and non-existent betrayal and what the fast political commissioners then saw as some chance to establish even faster justice, those same political commissioners who held one finger in their noses, and the other in the trigger. Today, we need to find a solution in this high home to correct the many surviving victims of this brief and vexable establishment of justice. So this is about compensation estimated at some two billion euros. We have proposed by amendment that the property be returned in a material form, in the form of material restitution or in money. So it's one of the ways New Serbia sees that they can be compensated for the victims of that time and, again, I'll say, historic injustices, but real compensation won't be there. If no law enforcement is approached immediately, that historical injustice will become even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61183	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Rade Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together. MP Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61184	Madam Chairman, and this is an amendment which, like these previous amendments, refers to the introduction of an intermediate, which is either a substitution or a replacement of property, other than the return of direct property and other than the payment of compensation. We have explained that we are proposing this amendment because it suits the former owners, but also the state. I'll explain it now. It is clear that there are many situations where authentic assets cannot be returned, such as agricultural land. The man had a field on Dushanovac. There is now a five-story house, the city center practically, because the field on Dušanovac is gone. I don't see why you can't offer a man five or ten kilometers away another field. The herds of weeds this country has as much as you want in your possession. I don't see why a simple substitution can't bring that back. Second, apartments. The man owned the apartment, that apartment was taken when it was taken away, and in the meantime he changed five or six times his property. The last owner probably bought it for real value, paid for it, and you can't, of course, take away the right to live in an apartment that he legally bought. But why don't the state offer the former owner another apartment? Let the apartment, for example, cost 100,000 euros, so instead of paying him 100,000 euros, the state can build a new apartment for 25,000 euros. It can build new eight thousand apartments, how much, roughly, it's been taken away. It will, first, save itself money, or save taxpayers' money, while at the same time encouraging housing, which is, of course, in the interest of the state, to hire this army of unemployed people. It is much cheaper for the state to build dedicated apartments, to be returned to former owners, than to pay them money, especially if that money is inadequate compensation. We'll talk about that later. Instead, for all these amendments, we have received the answer that they refuse because they are contrary to the concept of the law. That's the thing, the concept of the law is wrong. The concept of law is wrong, gentlemen. That law, I said, it's no good, it's bad and hypocritical, because we sausages want to solve the problem, and in fact everybody's aware we're not going to solve it. You're going to take away property worth five million euros at best, you've got a 500,000-euro ceiling. There are people who've been taken away from property worth five million euros, just so you know, not a small number. Now what? You know, it's been happening so many times since World War II, not only has the property been taken away, but it's like the property was taken away, so something's been paid, and that something is one thousandth of the real value. So I don't understand at all why the substitution, or substitution isn't applied as a method, why this government has escaped from one normal way of solving this problem. The only thing I accept is that this is against the concept of the law, but simply because the concept of the law is no good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61185	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61186	This amendment is in the spirit of the amendments that we have submitted. Since most of the assets seized were recorded, it was found that more than 90% of the assets seized were State-owned agricultural land or owned by some failed agricultural cooperatives, etc. If you are traveling in Serbia and if you see a huge land complex that has grown into weeds, thorns, in which no one has entered for decades, know that it is state land. This land would certainly be accepted by many owners within such complexes, because they know it's their plot, but most of it certainly, in conversation with them, we unequivocally found out, accepted that the adequate land would be returned to them. It is also unacceptable to us that, on the one hand, we have land complexes in the cooperative property, in state property, which have been devastated, which have not been processed at all for decades and, on the other hand, that we cannot bring it back to the owners, but then we must, on the burden of all Serbian citizens, give them bonds. I think there's still time for the government to consider whether it's logical, whether it's in the government's interest, in the interest of the damaged, in the interest of all of us. In our view, this logic and reasoning that we heard in the debate in principle is not acceptable because it was mentioned that it was possible for heirs, since it is a long period of time, so there are more, to bring forth numerous court disputes. So it is possible to conduct court disputes both on bonds and on returns in natural form. If the heirs disagree, they will not agree on any kind of return and if they want to go to court dispute, they will find reasons to go to court. Therefore, I do not think that argument is valid and I think it is in the best interest of this government to accept such amendments as are predicting the substitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61187	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61188	I would also like to support the amendment to Article 4 concerning the substitution, for the reason that the argument of the Government does not stand. We cannot accept the creation of animosity towards the victims by speaking now that it would cost the state a lot if the solution were to be a substitution to the return of the seized property. Let's not forget that within 70 years of using, "brand out," their children, all those who used the property that was taken, collected some revenue that was in a much larger amount than that amount of money, bonds that would have been returned by this law. I must note that the state must also take care of moral law, above all, that we cannot discriminate against anyone, that we cannot create one situation in which we will have two buildings next to each other, one that will be returned, worth four or five million euros, and the other that will be paid 500,000 euros. It's inappropriate and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61189	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senić. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61190	The amendment submitted by MP Vlajko Senic, in essence, simplifies all these amendments relating to the introduction of a very normal principle of substitution restitution or substitution, by only one term, which is "replacement form" which should be added in Article 4 after the term "natural" or compensation, which remains the same, in principle opening the door for what would give the essence of the restitution. This was rejected because of the concept. That's where we differ. I'm proud that we're different. I don't think it was because of the concept that the amendments were rejected, because the presentation of Vice President Djelic mentioned complications and problems. That's right. Such a law is causing huge problems and will only cause them and in its implementation they will encounter perhaps an unprecedented number of problems and cause great complications in its implementation. Is the fact that we are aware of the problems that will arise and the complications that already exist, should this prevent the Assembly and all of us from passing the best possible law and, once and for all, resolve the issue of complete rejection of ideological matrixes when it comes to property, to return to the ultimate simple human rights message – that private property is one of the fundamental human rights? So property and ideology has led us into this situation that we now need to fix and that what the ideological matrix has done wrong, back to the legal system. I don't want to talk about justice and injustice. So, not rightly, people were deprived of property in a system that had this ideological matrix. Today, to get rid of it, it's very difficult, the system change is terribly complicated, but we're changing it. I don't see why we suddenly gave up just to come clean with what's called a problem or a complication. Perhaps a simpler solution to the implementation of the restitution law will be a replacement restitution, and perhaps not. I always have a dilemma in front of me that follows me all the time – what's smaller, or greater damage, is it that we don't adopt the law or adopt it as it is, but without the amendment? I guess I'm not smart enough to figure it out, so I'm gonna need a couple more sleepovers. I'm getting more and more comfortable sleeping. I guess I'm on the right track to solve this personal dilemma of mine. As soon as I solve it, I'll share it with you. I guess if there's only a little reason, not a good will, then all amendments relating to the introduction of the substitution institute should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61191	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61192	Of course this is in the spirit of our thinking and that we support this kind of amendment, but I don't think it's appropriate to give away a new kind of reasoning that no one has brought up in the principle debate, nor is it now in the debate on amendments. Most of the people who took away the property belonged to the so-called so-called. Serbia's civil class, the middle class of society, which in every society is the bearer of progress and economic development. Definitely, after World War II, a revolutionary terror destroyed the Serb civil class, and that's why we've had decades of wandering in the dark. All serious analysts say Serbia currently as the main engine, the main driver of society lacks the very middle civil class. What kind of message do we send if we know that the middle class was committed by both teachers and officers and priests, craftsmen, merchants, high-ranking recruits, great curators? We must send a strong moral message that Serbia is returning to the values it has cherished before World War II, the system of values in which it is forced to carry the main drivers of the development of a society. I fear by refusing these amendments, we are sending a message that we are in some way rehabilitating those who have committed terror and who have seized property and are killing morally again in the notion of heirs to the Serb civil class. That is why I think that this amendment, in addition to all the reasons that we have presented, is both practical and economic and does not burden Serbia's citizens, etc., has a strong moral message in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61193	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61194	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I belong to those MPs who do not express their feelings – I am sorry or very glad that some minister is present on behalf of the Government to defend this bill or to be present when we talk about amendments, but it is good that you are present here, simply for reasons that, in addition to the political will that I can understand or not understand. There are a lot of legal terms here, legal terms that probably, given our long-standing lawyer practice, so for a while you've been a minister of justice, that you'll understand what I'm talking about and probably help the SRS bring down the concept of this law. We have proposed that Article 5 and the title above Article 5, which reads "Right to return property or compensation" be deleted. It's very nice to help a man, a pet, it's humane, eliminate injustice, so how nice it sounds, but to remove injustice, and to make or put yourself in danger of doing much greater, it's a much scarier thing than not doing anything. There's a threat here to one of the principles of lawfulness. Certain laws are not passed for a limited period of time, so we say, a valid law for two, three or five years. In principle, they are passed indefinitely, and even if living conditions impose such a situation that such a law no longer makes any practical sense anymore, the consequences of such a law cannot be undermined. Do you agree, Mr. Petrovic? Of course you do. Putting aside some 44, 45, more or less, it doesn't matter, legal regulations, some even decisions, and without conducting a legal procedure, it's very dangerous. True, this law provides for a certain procedure which, I would even say, is lumpy. This could be applied here, designed, and maybe live, and this looks a lot more like something that's amnesty or pardon. Amnesty, because we're talking here in the assembly, is not a pardon, because the President of the Republic could do it with his own act. So this could be called a law on amnesty rather than a law on the return of property, because it doesn't meet a lot of assumptions that would be necessary to do something like this and to bring something like this to life. For example, only one part of Article 5: "Who has no right to return property - a person who was a member of the occupation forces that acted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, as well as his successors". This in the first part of "who has no right," that's good, that was well solved by the legal regulations on which such assets were taken away, that's great, but you tell me, Mr Petrovic, until when is someone as a descendant obliged to suffer? The assumption is that someone was responsible for the crime because he may have been a member of some occupation forces or something else. This isn't just about members of the occupation forces. How long before the offspring have to suffer for being someone's offspring? Doesn't it seem to you that the repression here is being carried indefinitely away. You usually know how to say that someone doesn't have or has a right in a vertical line, in a lateral line when it comes to inheriting, and here, without exception. Were there any errors in that period? They did. Will this law be removed? He won't. In other words, the vast number of restrictions that apply, dominate, almost every member has certain restrictions. He says, "He will return and he will not return." This suggests that no one seriously intended to implement this law, and given the debate that was being held this morning, even more in the form of replicas than in relation to the amendments themselves, we in the SRS have become quite well aware of why, that is, who makes such a law. I'm sure it's one thing, not because of the citizens of Serbia. You know what they're asking of you, Mr. Petrovich? From you, from the government whose member you are? They demand that you take a little more care of today's moment, as we live today, that today's rights that we have and that we should gain do not come down on the margins, do not destroy, do not stop, and what was once a question, if something was carried out under a valid law in that period whether it was all wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61195	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61196	I'll use time as an authorised representative. It is certainly a very good argument, and it is submitted and this amendment is submitted as part of our thesis that it is a key member of this law and a member who is the reason why we will not vote for this law. In particular, when Mr Djelic was here in principle, when we discussed, we proposed several solutions from a comparative right that would in any case help to adapt this law to the circumstances in which the Republic of Serbia lies in political, legal and economic terms. I will remind the minister who is now present that we then suggested to Mr Djelic, who performed here as the legislator of the law, that he simply apply the experience of the Czech Republic, i.e. Czechoslovakia, because that's where the Restitution Act was passed in 1990. Also, as for the Czech Republic, there were still some parallels that say it is a similar situation to that in the Republic of Serbia. You know it's about the Sudanese Germans and the Czech legislator has applied one solution that we believe should have been here in Article 5, which is that foreign citizens have no right to restitution. This is quite logical and indicates that it is one concern about national interests that is in line with international law. As SRS, we do not see why such a solution could not be applied in Article 5. Our argument is also supported by the Czech President's procedure. You know for a fact that Mr. Klaus refused to sign the Lisbon Treaty because there were no guarantees that the associations and descendants of the Sudanese Germans would not be returned under that law that the Czech Republic passed. Therefore, it is a problem which already exists in parallel law in the EU, against which we are, of course, but we simply believe that the Czech Republic has done well and I do not see it, I say again and point out on behalf of the SRS, why such a solution could not be applied in Article 5 of this law. In particular, in line with our established concern that it is one member that can lead to legal uncertainty, we point out that there is certainly no collective responsibility and that private property is guaranteed in the Constitution, but this may be an argument on the other hand regarding Article 5. For example, folksdojcher associations or their representatives presently located in Austria may, if this Article 5 does not change, seek recovery of their assets on the basis of the lack of collective responsibility and on the basis of respect for private property. So it's a problem that, from a legal point of view, from an economic point of view, and also from a moral and historical point of view, must be defined in one more concrete way than in Article 5. Our objections are very serious and I think that any serious authority should respect them, but obviously this is not the case with regard to Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61197	Three minutes and 20 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61198	I thank Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 5, we have asked for amendments to interventions, starting with item 1 of the proposal in point 1, and then in point 2, point 2, item 3, point 1, point 2 and point 3, to change and to say that the former owner of the natural person and his successors, if he or his successors were members of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, they were members of the occupation armed military, paramilial or police forces acting in office or in the bodies of the occupation authorities, or they were members of political functions and duties in political organisations that formed or assisted the occupation authorities, or were members of the armed forces of the states that occupied Serbia and their military allies. The amendment proposes, for the sake of more precise and fairer regulation of the issue of the right to return, the dispossessed property and the ban on vomiting, not only should the right to inherit legal heirs, because the right to inherit is one of the general and human and civil rights, but it should also be recognised by other types of heirs, i.e. to recognise the right of former owners, or former owners to have their property, as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The right to vomit is not recommended to do so. the legal followers, the debtors, since the question of determining the properties of the legal follower is not regulated in a way that could unquestionably determine this property. The proposed provision really creates huge opportunities and abuses and corruption, and we talked about it in the principle of debate and because of the large assets that had certain assets that existed during this period and ceased to exist, as the decision-making authority would decide both on the eligibility of the requirements and on the status of the legal follower. This would further create unresolved problems and the state, especially those who have a tenant right in these dwellings where the borrowings, i.e. in dwellings belonging to the tasks that even in the meantime have ceased to exist. In order to specify the provision at point 4, we are asking to add the word "ex-owner". Instead of saying "domestic citizen" to state "national of the Republic of Serbia" for normal legal terminology, because fully harmonised in Serbian language terms is the term of the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, not a local citizen. It's another one of the failures on the legal side, in this law. That's what we were talking about, Mr. Minister. Mr. Djelic's lack of legal, normative areas in the adoption of certain provisions, or members of this law, is indeed visible. I was pleased, given that you are from that area and that the minister is also a lawyer that today we can, even if we change this legal terminology and bring it into line with the legal terminology of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you'll take part in that, and this is another example. Later, we will see this discrepancy in terms offered in the proposal for a law on the return of seized property and compensation. In point 2, we think it is mandatory to add the words "to the burden of the foreign state" because it is possible that the right of the foreign state has recognised the right to compensation, but to the burden of Serbia, which significantly changes the situation provided for by this member, i.e. this bill. The need for such an amendment also confirms the provision of Article 4. The Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets from the period 2005 ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 45/05), in which, as we have suggested, this issue is resolved and there is no reason not to adopt this. Paragraph 3. Indeed, this part should be changed for reasons that in an undeniable and completely precise way would prescribe the issue of denying the right to return due to participation in Serbia's occupation and war activities against Serbia. That's why I read to you this part of Article 3rd or point 3 of the amendment that we have submitted so that it would be clearer for the people who may be following this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61199	Three minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61200	This amendment requires that the property confiscated after 09.03.1945 and the judicial decision is put out of force, the decision which has suffered the legal consequences of confiscation of property is returned immediately to rehabilitated persons, i.e. their legal followers in natural form, and where that is not possible compensation is determined by market value at the time of the decision. The reason is that the legal consequence of rehabilitation is the futility of the decision to confiscate assets, which is sufficient to restore such assets without delay and based on current positive rules. The proposed solution by us, we doubt whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Bond Relations, the international conventions that our country has ratified and prescribed a lower level of law even from the Law on the confiscation of assets and the enforcement of confiscation of the FNRJ since 1946, which has been prescribed that in the event of the suspension of the procedure for confiscation of the judicial judgment or the annulment of a decision on confiscation, the confiscated property must be returned to the owner, if this is not possible, the return of only property will compensate the seed value in cash. When it comes to expropriation, the way indemnification of the property is clearly determined by the current expropriation law, so these rights cannot be reduced as proposed in the financial compensation part. And this also has to do with the current law on rehabilitation by which many people who are at a time when Broz's rule of law never existed, regardless of what many now celebrate that time of one total twilight of the rule of law and the most severe violation of human rights, property rights and all other rights, which is also the current law on rehabilitation literally giving only moral rehabilitation. You get a court ruling that you are no longer a state enemy and on the basis of that court ruling, it does not give you the basis at all to return the property that has been taken away from you on the grounds that you were once declared a state enemy, or cults or I don't know what, without speaking to other forms, primarily not material damages and severe mental sufferings which the person, who so without the basis of the seized property, suffered, what, members of his family, his successors and his loved ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61201	Two minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment with the correction, MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61202	Madam Vice-President and Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia have long waited for this law and for the correction of the bar of injustice that has hit a large number of citizens, as well as their families, descendants and relatives. Many talked about the bad consequences, the regulations passed after 9 March 1945, could also be spoken with figures, the total volume of the seized property. Many have mentioned personal and family tragedies to people deprived of property, but my amendment concerns first and foremost the need for not only the state to adopt this law, or the government, to affirm the responsibility of the state in relation to what was done on its behalf, as well as what was to be done. I think that this law affirms and what we need as MPs to identify ourselves according to a huge evil that has affected a large number of citizens in Serbia. In the last position of Article 5, it was defined that the removal of the consequences, the confiscation of property to victims of holocausts on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who do not have living legal heirs. My amendment adds the words "and other victims of fascism", because I think that all those victims of fascism in the name of which there are no heirs, that they are talking about it, means, who have no living heirs, that someone or the community should worry about it, and I think that the text of the bill should be complemented by the words "and other victims of fascism". I think it is also necessary to add item 5 that the existence of reciprocity with the foreign state and international contract, in the sense of this member, is determined by the agency under official duty, because this will facilitate the position of the parties and improve the efficiency of the procedure. In that sense, I think that this amendment is useful and I don't see why we shouldn't all, which I hope we'll all support the law, even in principle, so hopefully we'll all support this amendment to Article 5 that I have submitted. We could still discuss this, the way it is, and the scope, means what will be regulated specifically by the law, whether it should be specifically counted and what will be done in particular, in this sense I am still in a dilemma whether to make a correction and a detailed taxation, what all the special law needs to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61203	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61204	The LDP parliamentary group will support this amendment, because it solves one more thing besides what counterpart Mikovic was talking about, as regards the property of people killed as victims who do not have heirs. I have to say that this of us, in addition to what it is, of course, and our moral obligation, is part of the demands that have been made before us by traditional churches and religious communities in Serbia, and this concerns a moral dilemma and I am glad that we have removed it. It is morally unacceptable that the property of the victims, financed by the construction of the memorial to these victims, and the fact that it has obviously missed in some way or been wrongly found in the law, has been shown by traditional churches and religious communities in Serbia, and therefore we have also asked to delete a part of this article that is said to be built from this property by a memorial centre. What we have proposed is that the Government, together with the representatives of the victims of the special law, find a solution that would, above all, satisfy the heirs if they were present, unless there are representatives of those peoples, who in this way agreed. I must say that this has been done less in all the countries that have gone through the process of restitution and because it is part of the correction that Mr. Mikovic will or will take, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61205	One minute and 35 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61206	The DSS will now come in turn also suggested that Article 5, in the final position that is stated in the law: "relieving the consequences of taking property to the victims of the Holocaust on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which do not have living legal heirs, will be governed by a special law. "We place the point here, and we delete the rest of the sentence, because it is mildly said, it is completely inappropriate to prejudge the solution of this special law, especially not in this way, by establishing a memorial centre and educating a fund for the management of that centre. The victims of the holocausts, this state can raise the memorial center, it's not at all controversial, but not the victims' money, but the state's money, so we're not building a spaceship, we're building a memorial center, it's not costing it that much. The government's response to this amendment being rejected because it's a more appropriate solution in the law, I can't believe that what it says here is appropriate. This is mildly said, offensive. Please accept our amendment, because it really doesn't make sense that something like this is in the law. I don't understand the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61207	It was used a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61208	The amendment is that a natural person who concluded a purchase contract with a state authority in the period from 1945 to 1958 would be entitled to restitution if the court procedure found that the price of the purchase price was damaged. So this argument of the Government - the amendment is not accepted, because the proposed solution is more appropriate, I do not understand it at all. I don't know what the government meant by that, whether it's more appropriate to share the people who've been kidnapped with property on those who have the right to restitution and those who don't have the right to regain property. Common cases, as well as when legal acts, totalitarian regimes were seized property, as well as court proceedings, confiscation, that often OZNA inspectors, people who were wealthy or their families offered purchase contracts that should be concluded with the state, which were indeed below the purchase price, and this is easy to prove. In such cases, those people who were forced to sell their assets below all costs should be allowed to be returned to them. We have here a report from the government commission that speaks of this pressure, for more famous, more wealthy citizens, from 1945 to 1948, for the purpose of legalization, confiscation and nationalisation of assets, drawn up judgments. It is often the case that SDB has spread lies about gunmen, in order to mitigate the effect of mass shooting and to fuel false hopes in families. The families of the people's enemies were long-marked by the new authorities on their tails for material pursuits. Imagine how people felt, the descendants who watched all those who were on the ideological line of theirs get hurt and whether they should have, if one of the civil servants came to them to sign a contract to buy their property, their houses, their immovable property, whether or not he should have not signed such a contract. I say that such cases are very common and that people are damaged and that they should be covered by this law, if we think we are correcting historical injustices in one valid, systematic way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61209	The word is given by MPs in the next order, Mirko Cikiriz, then Nenad Konstantinovic, and then by MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61210	I think it is very important to understand this amendment that only the court in the court proceedings can determine that a certain contract is concluded below the purchase price or, as we have asked in a previous member, that in the conclusion of the contract, especially in the case of the possession of property, in a situation where someone is denying private property for the benefit of the state or agricultural cooperatives under pressure, that we are not looking for an "ex-legis" that the law broadly and for many cases foresees it, but only if proven in a court procedure that would be carried out by procedure and if material truth is established. Surely such examples were in practice. Thus, the argument that the bill is a better solution, the law does not foresee this situation. Thus, the law on such situations provides no solution. Thus, a solution that is not offered cannot be a better solution. In all these discussions, of course, there is no question at all whether we trust this government or whether we will support Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet on the way to the EU, but in this law, since it is the basis of the SPO programme, we are mostly looking through the victim's prism, through the prism of those who, in addition to losing their property, have suffered a gogot. That's why I'd ask, there's time to vote, to think about these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61211	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61212	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel that the representatives of the Government who wrote answers to these amendments have not read the amendments well, because I cannot believe that anyone can write in an explanation that this amendment cannot be accepted because the solution is more appropriate. As counterpart Chikiriz said, there is no such solution in the law at all. I think it's huge and unfair, in addition to not having the right to sign a contract to buy a gun at the head and now that such people, who are forced to give away their property for free or get some small part that's been reduced in a variety of ways, can't exercise the right to compensation. I am sorry that there is no colleague Radosavljevic who was with Minister Djelic here when we discussed in principle, I would like to ask Minister Petrovic to think again about this amendment and ask the MPs to consider that this amendment, which was submitted by a fellow Yugoslav, is absolutely adopted because I think it would still represent a correction to something that has been done to not a small number of people. That's how it was done, what I know, in Belgrade. So it was done in many towns around Serbia, and it happened in 1945, 1946, 1947 to 1950. So it doesn't matter much by nationalization that took place later in 1958. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61213	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61214	LDP MPs will vote for the adoption of this amendment. I think it is absolutely justified that this solution finds a place in these grounds, i.e. a description of the circle of persons who have the right to return property or compensation, and through a certain kind of procedure, especially because, and here, I agree with this argument that perhaps the representatives of the Government have not properly analysed, since even in the current text of the law there is a right to have former owners who have their former assets taken away, returned to property on the basis of cargo legal work. So those people who have had some kind of financial damage or some other kind of asset reduction have the right to compensation and those who are victims, I would say, of legal cynicism and hypocrisy that followed a few years after those first 1945, 1946, would not have that right. I don't think we have the right to support this kind of abuse of rights, which actually existed or the behavior of a regime that resorted to such measures to cover up or cover up the naked repression. So the LDP will support the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61215	One minute was used by the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61216	The Democratic Party of Serbia will support the amendment. We think it's a good amendment and that it corrects only a fraction of the hypocrisy that the government has with this bill. The content of this law is a complete hypocrisy because, simply, injustices cannot be corrected by making new ones. Don't do what we talked about from the start. Here the new injustice is not compared to later followers of some property and the issue of legal certainty. Here the injustice again seems to those of whom the injustice was once done. The state is robbing them again. This is a double robbery, this is your law. If we already need to support some amendments, and the government didn't want to accept ours, we'll support the amendment that's filed here at least to correct this injustice, that the people who are forced to alienate their property wakes for why or for nothing enter a body of persons who have the right to return property. That's the basic thing. I would ask the government to consider other amendments submitted by the DSS to make this bill as hypocritical as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61217	One minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61218	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, in the debate in principle, I said that it was our feeling that when the government established the bill it failed to reconcile different views of history between the majority people and minority communities, not of course all, but one part of minority communities. I have to admit that I'm feeling a little sick about everything that's happened in the past few days because of a debate that's been led by one-sided observation of history, but not only because of that, but, first of all, what this debate is about, and that's one extremely bad message that we're still extremely, extremely far from reconciliation and since it's one of our party's basic goals, in no way can we get past this. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that never closer, more or less complete, the consensus has been in this parliament, in this term of any question, therefore, since the start of this government's mandate. Some have said what they thought about this issue, some have not said it, but they agree. I think there's a few MPs who disagree with everything that's been said doesn't agree. It's practically one circumstance that's devastating to us. This means that there is practically a consensus that the principle of collective responsibility should or should be fully established in Serbia's legal system in 2011. I have to tell you, first of all, our coalition partners, that we didn't fight for this during the 1990s or after 2000. They're encouraging signs that began to arrive after 2000, unfortunately, fully decorated. We had no illusions in 2000 that the principle of collective responsibility from the legal system would go quickly. Of course, we had this illusion, but in 2003, when the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopted a resolution on non-recognition of collective guilt, in March 2003, it was an extremely encouraging sign for us. The resolution states that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina expresses its belief that it is in the past unfairly imposed on individual national communities in Vojvodina, in the interest of the development of spirit, tolerance, mutual respect for national communities living in Vojvodina. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina in this regard advocates full rehabilitation of all the exiled, innocently accused and innocently injured. Then, for this declaration, that is, the resolution was voted by those who are the most fierce, but not all, but part of those who were the most disputing of the essence of our amendment a few days ago, and that is a question for them -- what has happened over the past few years. It is also devastating that in the debate in principle only Mr Martinović confirmed, that the principle of individual responsibility is a principle that must be applied and I thank you for that. On the other hand, some will now say or start spreading some of the more difficult that there is a new coalition at work. I want to let you all down. Unfortunately, in September 2011, in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia simply, that is our feeling, there is no willingness to look only at the future, because the essence of this amendment and the amendment of the Government was that. Political elites are ready for that. On the other hand, there are some signs that it's not like that in a complete society and I want to quote you one of the conclusions of September 11th from the extraordinary assembly of the Return Association of taken away property for Saturday with its surroundings. It's a branch of the restitution network and it's a branch for Saturday. This association in its conclusions says that the unacceptable restriction that excludes the process of restitution of a person who was members of the so-called. the occupation forces, therefore, those who, by law, had to carry out a military obligation, and did not commit war crimes, cannot be deprived of the right to return to property. This is what I needed to say for reasons why this association is in no way a majority minority. This is practically one association where members of the Hungarian community are in an extremely small minority, and if you have that circumstance in mind then I think it is my finding that, compared to the political elite, part of society does not view this issue this way. If France and Germany had joined the reconciliation process in this way, it would never have been the EU. Simply, on the principle of collective responsibility, reconciliation cannot be built. A few days ago, the Deputy Prime Minister was in Brussels, and I am sure that, among other things, he also discussed the Restitution Act with his conversants. I don't know if, and I believe it is, he has promised that this law will not contain any discriminatory provision, and this provision, which means confirming the principle of collective guilt, is discriminatory. I am fully aware that the European Commission's basic request in relation to this law was that this Law does not contain any discriminatory provision. Based on our amendment, the government has submitted its own, which we have supported. Unfortunately, the government has withdrawn its own amendment. The explanation the Deputy Prime Minister gave in the morning, I think it's at least ridiculous. So to claim that in Serbia the Assembly has its own government, and that this assembly is not governed by the Government, I don't think he can believe it either, regardless of what the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure say, of course. So it'd be good to, you know, have someone over the top. What are the dilemmas? That's what the Deputy Prime Minister crystal cleared a few days ago, here a few meters from us, for a press conference. He said the dilemma was whether only those convicted of war crimes were not users of restitution, or all those who were kind or forceful, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were members of some occupation force, that they were all excluded from the process of restitution? He then stood at the point that this other group, those who were mildly or forcefully members of foreign occupation forces, should not be excluded from the process of restitution. I think it's a difficult position to understand when it comes to, for example, investment. Then German or Austrian investors are welcome. When you look at the data, these two countries have practically invested, i.e. their four billion-euro companies in Serbia. When it comes to donations, of course German donations are welcome. Germany donated one billion euros. When we got to the restitution law, there were obviously some other and double arches. I want to dismiss those speculations that have arisen, that we, as SVM MPs, have conditioned such support to other laws, by adopting this amendment. That's just not true. Because, if that were true, for example, yesterday or the day before yesterday, we would not have fought against the law on public property, since then the amendment to the government was proposed. I think that's the best proof that these claims and speculations are not true. On the other hand, I'm sorry Mr. Radosavljevic is not here to confirm what I'm about to say. In a conversation of June 30th, I told him and begged him that the bill contains no discriminatory provision, no provision that can be understood under the principle or principle of collective guilt. Unfortunately, it did not happen, or it will not happen, and in the end it will happen exactly the opposite. I want to finally set an example and that's an example of thinking. It's an example from our close past. That's one theoretical example. It doesn't matter the name, or anything else, of a pre-war population of Vukovar, who was in Vukovar the homeowner. It doesn't matter if he was a Serb or Hungarian, or any other nationality. The pre-war resident of Vukovar, the homeowner, who, after the outbreak of the conflict, carried out his military duties and responded to a call to JNA and spent that time at a wartime as a cook. The war ended as it ended. The issue of household law remains unresolved. What would you, perhaps, Mr. Minister, personally say if Croatia were to propose one law, the essence of which would be that all those holders of household rights that were members of JNA are excluded from the process of removing or indemnification, or the elimination of the injustices that have been done in recent years? How many theoretical people of Vukovar would this way be excluded from this process? I'm sure you wouldn't agree with that. Of course, some will say – they will be right. From the point of view of Serbia, of course, JNA was not an occupation army. But from another point of view and from another perspective, Croatia's perspective was that. Once again, I want to draw your attention to this, but I could name countless other parallels that this provision of the law, which I was talking about, are being unfair. These examples, in particular, make this provision unfair because of this, that even those who in the rehabilitation process succeed in proving their innocence and being rehabilitated, and who were members of the occupation forces, would not have the right to apply for restitution. This is one circumstance that the Government should take into account both my fellow Members and our fellow MPs, when our amendments are being made. For the absurd to be greater, occupiers, who may have committed crimes, but unless they're meant to be, they can be restitution users. It is the ultimate absurdity resulting from this provision of the bill. Of course, we are aware of the fact that the government will not accept the ruling coalition of our amendment. We will only have the chance to address the Constitutional Court and we will certainly do so. We simply believe that this provision is so discriminatory, so much contrary to European values, with European principles, that it should simply not survive in Serbia in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61219	Twelve minutes have been used since the MPs' time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61220	Thank you. I'm not going to open the controversy here about what you're talking about right now, which is why this debate has been going on for days and there's been a lot of talk about it in principle. You, Mr. Varga, told me about what history here looked like around this amendment. I only wish as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the comparison you used, explaining and defending your position. So, in both formal and legal terms, whatever happened in Croatia in the 1990s and in the former Yugoslavia, I think it's far from correct that anyone compares what they did to the axle forces from 1939 to 1945. So, once again, I'm not going to pollute these things, because you've done this here in this house several times and you've brought arguments to, and against, but I mean, it's really not good, I think even if it's very bad that parallels of this kind are withdrawn, against Hitler and his allies have joined the entire free world from both the East and the West, and those who thought that private property shouldn't exist and those who were defenders of that, wiped out the ideological differences, the whole white world has come together against such an evil, who wanted to exterminate and tried to exterminate millions of people. It's totally inadmissible. I want to say it here on my own behalf and in the name of the institution that I represent, that comparisons of that kind are being made.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61221	Right to the replica of the People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61222	I would also use the time of the parliamentary group, and I still have it at my disposal. I don't think we understand each other. I've never compared the former Yugoslavia and Hitler's forces, the axle forces and everything else you've talked about. I've been comparing the position of an ordinary member of the army and of the other army, a member of the armed forces who's been mobilized by soap or force. You should know, and I believe that you know that during World War II on the territory, like Backe, a number of non-Hungarian people have been mobilized by hand or by force and, for example, by force. taken to the east front. It follows from this provision of the bill that even they do not have the right to restitution. For that reason, I made a deal on this matter and understood the parallel, and in no case did that parallel refer to what you were talking about. On the other hand, I will set another example that shows the senselessness of the principle of collective responsibility. That example is also from Vojvodina, from the city of Kovilj. From 1941 to 1944, practically six gendarmes were in power, and they were there all the time, of course, from the point of view of Serbia as occupiers and they spent that time working with the locals. Do you know what happened a little later? A little later when the New Sad raid followed, these forces that carried it headed toward Kovil and these six gendarmes responded to their so-called. Parliaments to go or reach Kovil and thus practically defend this violence against all possible consequences of the raid. What happened after World War II? The first six people executed in Kovil were those, the six gendarmes, based on the principle of collective responsibility. Of course, there are countless other examples. What may be even sadder, none of our fellow MPs spoke of this principle, and in principle I quoted some decisions or cited some decisions made after World War II based on the principle of collective responsibility, that none of our colleagues had the need to say that in 2011, for example in 1945, based on the principle of collective responsibility, they should not exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What is crucial and as an irresponsible question remains – was it true that the position of European institutions was not to pass a law containing any discriminatory provision against citizens, therefore, compared to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61223	This used the time of representatives of the parliamentary group and one minute from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I applied for the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61224	Thank you. And I answered the amendment. It's a very incredible situation that MPs of this law are driving us into. It's extremely amazing to me in this amendment structure that's been made. No moment has anyone in this room said, has identified the occupation forces with the Hungarian people. It was only you and as we fought against the rights of the occupation forces of people of Hungarian origin, too, perhaps with greater ferocity we fought against what Milan Nedic was doing just ten minutes ago. Where do you get the right to accuse someone of being attacked by a majority nation against a minority people? Do you know who Servo Mihalj is? Was he forced to mobilize? Did he have to do it like those people whose name you're talking about here today? It simply builds that the responsibility of someone doesn't exist because it was forced into World War II, it doesn't stand, and that dilemma was solved 60 years ago. Compared today's Germany with Nazi Germany is amazing, a country that has gone through the process of denancination, through the process of the worst possible face-up with its own past, in which it is forbidden to use words – Nazism, it is forbidden to have a flag of Naziism, where today's greatest shame is what the country has done. In that country, the greatest shame is that the country has done during the period that we are talking about today. And to compare the state, Serbia's state co-operation with the German state today, defending occupation forces in Serbia, it's not even politically incorrect, it's rude. On the other hand, we have carefully watched your amendment, as well as the provision of the law to which it applies. It is very difficult to recognize the attack on the Hungarian national minority from the sentence – the right to return property or compensation does not have a person who was a member of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, as well as his successors. What does that have to do with the Hungarian minority? You have not submitted an amendment defining the mechanism in which a court procedure, similar to the right of amendments that have proposed more or less all parliamentary groups earlier, in which a court procedure will be defined and decided that someone, against their will, with resistance, will be brought to justice, on the basis of such a ruling, will receive the right to participate in the restitution process. No, that's not true, it's a delusion you deliberately put all of us before. Your amendment is very clear. In it, even one who committed war crimes on Serbia's territory can participate in the restitution process, because you did not foresee a new procedure for such cases. You're asking to delete a provision under which the person who was a member of the occupation force does not have the right to participate in this process. We're very clear here and that's why this raised tone of mine, because I'm really surprised like that, I'm going to call it, in a politically insidious attack. No, it's not about members of the Hungarian minority, it's about members of all the peoples and all the citizens who, instead of opposing this greatest evil, who until then have been seen, decided to protect themselves and to quietly participate in the Holocaust, genocide, destruction, first of all, the Serb majority, but then, and then, to all the other people and to deal fiercely with anyone who thinks differently. It was happening in the territory and in this country, but also in the whole world in that period. There is no collective responsibility, no collective guilt, it is very individual and is individually valid for more or more members of the occupation forces, because there are a bunch of my countrymen, thousands and hundreds of thousands of your countrymen who have opposed it. If they didn't have to, if Servo Mihalj didn't have to, then no one had to. If we cross that line today, what's next? That is why this amendment is not technical and does not apply to some people today, whose intention it is to allegedly protect their interests, you speak. No, this is the political relativization of what happened in the Vojvodina territory until 1945. That's why so determinedly not of, more or less, all parliamentary groups. This is a political question. We even adopted support in the law in that. We are pleased to see the government withdraw its amendment. We are pleased that the government recognized what the amendment refers to immediately. Nowhere in the world, members of the occupation forces had the same rights as the people who oppressed those four years in the most monstrous way possible. The responsibility for all the death camps we talked about today must be borne. This responsibility is double, direct participation, or silent support. From my perspective, the same is true, as long as there was one man, who stood up, said no, and therefore died. Among the Hungarian people were many of them. So you have no right to represent this as a struggle or as an attack on the Hungarian people. I told you one name, and there are thousands and hundreds of thousands. Exaggerated? Please don't. It's all over Europe. The people who didn't adjust to it, they didn't, they realized what it was. They stood up and fought against the greatest monster of the 20th century or even in the history of civilization. Today to present these views, anti-fascist, as a minority issue and a question of discrimination, I am sure that this is even a violation of the Rules of Procedure of this congregation. I didn't answer after the Rules of Procedure's injury, but I'm sure of it. What I feel, anyway, is that such an attitude devastates my dignity at least. So, to accuse us that because we're fighting members, against the rights of members of the occupation forces, to accuse us of fighting some minority community, I'm going to repeat again, I'm very shocked. I find it very rude and it was the duty of the chairman to respond to that. Repeat once again, the amendment we're talking about here today does not speak about what the fellow MP was talking about. The amendment submitted gives the right to all the members of the occupation forces, no matter what, to enjoy the same rights as the people who pressured, no matter what the people are concerned. Also, the provision in the law deprives it of all members of the occupation forces, not of any minority, nation or individual. It's the fluid of anti-fascist combat, at least that's how it should be in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61225	Eight minutes have been used by representatives of the parliamentary group. Namely, the LDP parliamentary group authorised MP Ivan Andric to represent her in the course of the debate, and this used time at the disposal of the authorised representative of the group, and the group still has 10 minutes and 30 seconds. People's MP Lasslo Varga, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61226	Indeed, without wanting to enter additional replicas and additional conflicts, there is really no need for that, I would just like to point out a few more facts. So, first of all, I didn't talk and we didn't talk about this being an attack on the Hungarian community or on the Hungarian minority, we talked about this being an attack on a European principle, which is the principle of individual responsibility. It's a huge difference between these two claims. That's one thing. Secondly, in the principle debate, I asked the president of your parliamentary group to check with European institutions whether this provision is discriminatory. You obviously either didn't check or you checked and you got an answer that you didn't like, so that's why you didn't talk about it. I'm really interested in the answer to this question. The third thing we've been looking for is what you've been talking about, so that this provision is deleted. We asked that this provision not apply to the local population. So to the population who lived in the area after 6 April 1941. We agreed, of course, and with the amendment of the government, since the fundamental amendment of the government meant that solution. What's completely weird for us is this way of sitting in two chairs. So, if you are in favour of European principles, of European integration, then with these principles, the principle of collective responsibility is incompatible. It's just that these two principles can't go parallel. Really, as far as the replica goes, I'm sure I'll be done with this. I tried to draw attention, on the one hand, to all that was happening, and, on the other hand, to try to influence all of you and all of us, that in the coming years, since this issue will certainly, by the time that reconciliation is achieved, this issue will remain open and the work of the inter-academic mixed committees, formed between the two Academy of Science and Art, will continue, but this message will send a bad message to parliament and that inter-academic commission. It just can't be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61227	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61228	Yeah, and I hope we're done, but it's still a very wrong interpretation of what we've been saying and even maliciously. You know, the first principle of the EU is anti-fascist. As an additional argument, since what they were saying, which is the general view of fascism and the occupation forces on Europe's territory was not enough, that date was even taken by Europe as its day. It's a day of victory over fascism. So, to tell us today that the fight against the rights of the occupation forces against Europe is very malicious and, again, very amazing. We need to be clear here. What we're looking for is that members of the occupation forces, whatever religions, people, background, religion, whatever you want, can't have the same rights as the people who occupied, pressured, killed, shot and massacred for four years. This isn't about collective responsibility. Your amendment, I repeat, is not an amendment that defends the individual and determines his right to prove that he was forced into Tuborg. No, your amendment says the occupation forces have the right to participate in the restitution process in Serbia. That's the amendment you have. So what's the problem, that's what we're talking about different things, but I'm sure we understand each other very well. We have nothing to negotiate and to make peace with representatives of the occupation forces, so I don't know what kind of reconciliation committee we're talking about. On the reconciliation committee between Serbs and representatives of the occupation forces? I'm not sure that such a commission exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61229	People's MP Lasslo Varga, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61230	It's really the last replica. I was talking about the inter-academic commission, which was formed between the two Academy of Science and Art, on President Tadic's initiative and then the president of the Republic of Hungary, Lasla Soyama. The commission has been working for two years and has been tasked with the tragic events during World War II to investigate, enlighten and to submit at the end of that work, possibly to the National Assembly, our Parliament, and, of course, the parliament of Hungary, some document in the form of a declaration, a resolution, which would put an end to what was happening during World War II. In that sense, I was talking about this committee, in the sense that there can be no idea of a leader in this commission's work, the principle of collective responsibility, because in the end, we are certainly not going to get to the desired goal. There is obviously one significant misunderstanding between us because you read this amendment in a way that you do not read the current Rehabilitation Act. Namely, this amendment of ours makes sense if you read together with all the other laws, above all with the Rehabilitation Act. The purpose and essence of our amendment is that, if someone in the rehabilitation process proves his innocence, or the state does not prove his or her guilt, in that case, that person is not automatically excluded from the process of restitution. It was the only intention and the whole essence of this amendment, so I would ask you to understand this amendment this way because it was the only message and the only intention of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61231	National MP Ivan Andric, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61232	I will not judge your intentions, I will judge only what you have submitted and what we have read. When you read it, you can't read what you said. It doesn't say in this amendment. Also, I understood what kind of commission you were talking about. What I didn't understand - why do you represent this committee as representatives of the occupation forces, because I'm telling you it's not? The reconciliation between us and the Hungarian people is welcome. As far as LDP is concerned, no reconciliation with the Hungarian people should come, we have never even had a fight. The reconciliation with the representatives of the Second World War occupation forces should not be sought with us, you will not receive it from us. That's what you're looking for in some other convention. Be assured that in those declarations, which the commission will propose, there will be no justice. That's what I'm telling you. Once again, I think it is very politically problematic and manipulative to identify the Hungarian minority in Serbia with members of the occupation forces in World War II. Once again, I ask you not to do this, especially because of the people you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61233	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a good book called "Sukobi on the Yugoslav Literature Left." I think we are now attending conflicts between political parties in Serbia that are competing with more EU principles. I don't want to be an arbiter in that. What I want to say is this: if you read the bill carefully, you will see that this bill does not repeal the rules set out in Article 2. Officially, Mr. Minister, you're a lawyer, all these regulations remain in force. So the state of Serbia has nothing against those regulations. They were, in your opinion, legal, because you don't put them outside the legal force with this bill. They remain a formal and legal part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What are you doing? By maintaining legal regulations, you want to undo the consequences that these legal regulations have caused in social and political practice in the Republic of Serbia. That doesn't make any sense to me. It turns out that the regulation is legal, and the consequence of this legal regulation is not legal. It seems unsustainable to me in a formal and legal sense. I also have one proposal, which is that future MPs, along with proposals from the government's laws, are bound to be delivered to the government's session. I now have the impression that there are two democratic parties in the Republic of Serbia, that the Democratic Party in the Government is for the bill because, I suppose, the bill is a bill, and you correct me if I am wrong, ministers, unanimously adopted at the cabinet's session, and when that same bill comes to the National Assembly, then the DS MPs say the government does not know what it is doing and that the bill is bad. So there would be no misunderstanding about the number of democratic parties... (President: National MP, I would like to ask you about the agenda subject, with the gratitude that you qualify for the functioning of the institutions in Serbia, because the Assembly controls the government. I'm not sure, Mrs. Comic, but fine. (President: From what you're saying, I'm sure, because you say the government has made a decision and the Assembly has said no. These are your words, and I thank you, on behalf of the National Assembly, for that, because always the testimony of the participants has the greatest credibility possible. I'm asking you about the agenda. ( ) As for the particular article 5 and the problems this member is causing, Mr. Varga, I would not want to be your lawyer, but don’t worry much about being attacked by people who are God’s antifascists, and today they support an international organization that does the same thing Hitler did. I don't see the difference between the situation when Hitler bombes one country and the NATO Pact does. What's the difference between when Hitler bombed us and when Bill Clinton bombed us or when they bombed Iraq, Afghanistan or until a few days ago, Libya? There's no fundamental difference. Furthermore, you also do not have to worry because the government has withdrawn its amendment to Article 5 for the following reasons: Article 5(3) states: "Right to return property or compensation is taken away from the person who was a member of the occupation forces operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II, as well as his successors". If you take article 40. The bill, which has to do with this, you will see that Article 40 states: "According to the request for return of property, the Agency shall conduct the procedure through the regional units, and in accordance with this law and the law governing the general administrative procedure". What is the general administrative procedure – unilaterally. Who will participate in this process? Only one person will participate as a party. That person who's interested in getting his assets back and the Agency as an authority that runs the process. So there are no other parties. One party, the person asking for his return of property, is the Agency's decision on his request. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, and you, Mr. Minister, is how many among the people who are going to request their property back, that it stands in demand – I ask that my property taken away from me, my father or my grandfather, and I also want to inform you that my grandfather was a member of the occupation forces. People like that won't be. How will the Agency be able to know whether the applicant was either his father or his grandfather a member of the occupation forces? Only if one of them finds out that information by chance. Otherwise, he won't know. It's been 70 years. You do not say – persons who are rightly convicted of war crimes, but anyone who was a member of the occupation forces. How a 25-year-old child, who you're going to let run a general administrative procedure, say here in Belgrade, will know if someone's grandfather in kickinda was a member of Horti's forces during the war. God forbid he knew who Horti was and knew that Vojvodina was occupied, not that he knew if his grandfather was a member of the occupation forces. This provision is pointless. In practice, God forbid I'm wrong, 99% of the people who pretend to return the property that was taken from them or from their ancestors. Even if they were members of the occupation forces a hundred times, they will be returned to their property, because the agency has no objective opportunity to determine whether someone was really a member of the occupation forces or not, because the administrative procedure is unilateral, and to find such a safe member of the occupation forces or his successor who would say in the request for a return of property – you know, my grandfather was either a Hortican or a ballistician or a German officer, etc. I guess people like that won't be much. There may be several of them, but it won't be a mass phenomenon at all. In practice what you were supposed to prevent, not that you wouldn't stop, you're going to speed up. Mr. Varga, you don't have much to worry about, the government will allow both the Hortiians and the ballistics and the Ustashas and who knows who doesn't get their property back legally, because the agency has no criteria, no way, except by some chance to find out that a person during World War II was a member of the occupation forces. Also, what I want to tell my colleagues here who are talking and using the term of stolen property. This isn't about the stolen property, this is about the seized property at the expense. If it's about nationalisation and expropriation. Confiscation is a measure of confiscation of property without compensation, but as an additional measure with a judicial verdict, as far as I'm aware. You say, "Yes, but that compensation was not just." Well, even now that the property is blown up, who says the compensation will be just. What does that mean? That in 70 years someone will say – you know, I've been exploited by the property because it was building a bridge in Belgrade, and my grandfather, and the compensation wasn't fair, bring the law to pay me back that taken property because the compensation at the moment of expropriation is not fair. It's a vicious circle. This country won't do anything but pay someone something once in 100 years or twice in 100 years because a certain number of years ago something wasn't fair. That doesn't make any sense. Next, I don't know where you found it in 1968. I know that Mr. Micunovic then revolutionized the Faculty of Philosophy because he felt that Yugoslav society was not communist enough. Is that enough reason to be a turning point in expropriation in 1968? I don't think so, but there's Mr. Minister, so I'd like him to explain. This whole debate, from the government's representatives, from the MPs from the ruling parties, says that the bill is quickly drawn up that you are not sure yourselves, the MPs here have spoken, and the ruling parties, that they have to sleep over to see what the best solution is, because they are not safe, and you want to convince us that this is great. The bill is quick, and you don't know for yourself what consequences he's going to have in practice, you still don't know, people, a circle of subjects to which this bill will apply, how much money this state needs to ensure that the property is returned. One fundamental question is raised – is it possible that the Republic of Serbia, where it is located, in political, economic, cultural, social, in a moral sense, there are no far-fetched business but that in the assembly procedure, you are proposing a law for which even MPs of the ruling parties are not sure what all the consequences it should cause? There have been stronger attacks on the bill by DS MPs, G17 plus, SVM, SPS, than by SRS MPs. That absolutely doesn't make any sense. And you say the law is European. Is there any uniform form of what a European standard is? What is a European standard for the government, for the ruling party MPs, is not a European standard. Here people compete to prove who the bigger European is, there's a dead race here about who's more attached to EU standards. Give more people to the EU to give you some mark, a certificate that only you are authorized to represent in the EU in Serbia, that only you know what European standards are, so that Mercedes, for Audi, for Foltz Vagen, is an authorised drug dealer for Serbia. He has a license, let him give you a license to know who is the EU's authorised representative here. Does DS, LDP, SVM, do those who stole the mandates and say – should return the seized property? Let's get people to find out once.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61235	Ten minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61236	Mr. Martinovic, it is no secret that you have the diametrically opposite views of the government on many issues, including this, so it is fully expected and it is not a topic. About one thing that's important and that you've opened up here, it's not good to have some unknown. I don't think you've read the entire text of the law properly. It is true that you have seen in Article 40(1) that this procedure is conducted by the Agency in accordance with this law and the General Administrative Procedure Act, but one member before that, Article 39 very precisely defines that the party to the proceedings is the person on whose request the procedure is initiated, but also the Republic Public Advocate. So, the state will have its representative in this process and it will be the one who is authorised by law in other procedures to protect public interest. Of course it's a matter of every particular case and of proving all the relevant facts, you know it very well, it's also a job and you teach it at the university, how in specific things and cases the procedure will take place. Of course we'll see, at the very least, there's always a possibility of judicial protection, so I have no doubt that whoever wants to prove their interest will be doing it in the best way to achieve it, and there's someone here to defend the public interest and the state. There is no reason to doubt that it will do so in the best faith and in the best of intentions using all the resources that the state has, the different types of records and the possibility to get to all the necessary facts and to prove these facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61237	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61238	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, firstly, Mr. Minister, in Article 39, it is not quite clear that the Republic's public defender is a mandatory party in every specific administrative procedure to be conducted in connection with the return of property. You think so, that's not what it says. Secondly, imagine that the Republic Public Attorney, after all, what is the Republic Public Attorney's Office? A body that protects the property interests of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know how you can assume that a Republic public defender as an authority that protects the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia can also know that he has relevant information on whether someone's grandfather was a member of the occupation forces during World War II. Very difficult, Mr. Minister, I'm not saying it's absolutely impossible. Do you, as a representative of the government, have a record? Yes, you do. Are you sure? Who was a member of the occupation forces? Tell me who's keeping that record. I'd like to hear what authority in the Republic kept track of who was a member of the occupation forces during World War II. If you have that record, I withdraw everything I've said. Then it's very simple if you have that record. Deliver the records to the Republic Public Attorney, page 450, that and that, his grandfather was a member of the occupation forces, he cannot be returned to his property. But you don't have that record. What you wrote in article 5 is some provision that you want to wash your conscience, to say – no, we will not return the property to the members of the occupation forces. About that is enough moral reason to vote for this law, but essentially, in less, more vast majority of those who were members of the occupation forces, and I don't think any of the SVM colleagues should feel ashamed, because it's really not just Hungarian people, nothing bad will happen to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61239	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61240	Mr. Martinovic, I don't want to spread the debate to a lawyer, this is a legal issue. The acquisition of all means of evidence will be in the hands of the attorneys, from witnesses, through all records that can be obtained by lawyers, and these are public documents, but also different records that are kept in the archives. The way I think about it right now so I can set up a procedure, I believe I can quite reliably construct how you can prove whether the applicants and their successors were members of the occupation forces or not. Here I look at some fellow lawyers, I see them smiling so it's not some particular problem I can tell you from practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61241	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61242	Mr. Minister, you're somewhat right about this is a lawyer's question. But now that it's a lawyer's question, let me ask you another lawyer's question, here's Mr. Novakovic – on whom is the burden of proof? Is there any assumption that someone was a member of the occupation or does not exist? It depends on how these procedures will be handled. If there's no assumption, then the state needs to prove that someone was, tell me how they're gonna prove it? And if there are any relevant criteria to prove that someone was a member of the occupation forces. After all, if the issue is opened, the property will not be returned at all, because it will come before the court simply people will come into dispute. The general administrative procedure is not a procedure in which there is a dispute, it is outside the disputed procedure. If a dispute arises, it will have to be settled by the court and then what will the courts in the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, have to deal with? The state will say your grandfather was a member of the occupation forces, and the heir will say no. And then the courts will deal with the fact that it's someone's? Right? Well, is that the aim of judicial reform, Mr. Minister, who will be able to prove it after 70 years? The living witnesses of World War II, Mr. Minister, from day to day, are getting smaller. If you mean when the law is applied, when bonds are issued, and that will be in the next 20 years. God forbid you and I were alive then, not the one who was a member of the occupation forces during World War II. Mr. Minister, the law is lifeless. This will remain a dead letter in the paper, or in practice it will cause such problems that you are not even aware of right now. You have no idea what you're going to vote for, ladies and gentlemen. This is such a papazian, in a legal political and economic sense, that this is not a court, there is no agency that will be able to discuss this in a very decent way and that these proceedings end, as you like to say, within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61243	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61244	Another legal-technical question. The burden of proof and you have the same in law is not the same when it comes to citizens of Serbia or as the local citizens and foreigners here say. When it comes to the burden of proof, it is on foreigners and they will have a very big problem that, at least I can assume, to prove that they were not members of the occupation troops, because such a solution is foreseen by law. For domestic citizens, you are right, of course, that the assumption that the applicant has no interference and should prove he, if there are, who represents the public interest and it will be the Republic Public Advocate. Generally, many of the things you've been talking about simply stand, because this is 2011, and there should be a change in the situation that was set up decades earlier and there is no law, and there is no state like this, and when 20 years ago established in some other countries, there are no fast and clear solutions, so it's not possible to pass a law that could simply be resolved. Here quoted Zoran Djindjic once said that it is easy to make fish soup from aquariums, but it is not possible to make fish soups with aquariums. This is a question that is needed with the least pain and in the frameworks that are possible in this country today, to correct injustice, and you can see that there is a huge and difficult controversy about it and nobody here represents illegal positions, but there are simply significant and huge differences, and the government proposes what is believed to be feasible, possible and least difficult and least complicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61245	This concludes today's work in the morning part of the session and before I set a break on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform you that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, and that the afternoon part of the session at 15.00 hours will continue the search by amendment to Article 5, which has been submitted by Parliamentarian Lasslo Varga. So, by searching the details that are currently under way. The registered speakers will, of course, be able to be reported for the start of the debate at 15.00 p.m. this afternoon. [[- It's a break.]] We continue to work in the afternoon session by reviewing the details, the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Laslo Varga. This is where we stopped in the afternoon. Does anyone else want a word in the debate under this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I seem to have no luck yesterday after the break and today, the minister is gone, and the people who have submitted the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61248	If you'd be so kind as to withdraw your claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61249	Mr. Petrovic is coming in right now. One moment Mr. Varga said that Mr. Martinovic was right. Yes, it is. All you have to do is listen carefully to what the Serbian radicals are saying and then find out that we're right. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Varga also said one moment, I understand that Mr. Tadic participated in writing this amendment with the president of Hungary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61250	You did not understand, it was an interstate committee of historians, which was established a while ago and has nothing to do with the drafting of the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61251	What's alarming and what we're afraid of is that Mrs. Merkel hasn't been involved in making this amendment, because it's known that across Vojvodina Folks Deutsche, Mr. Minister, has been massively visiting all the places for the past five years, to touch the churches. To be honest, I witnessed it in my place, and what's amazing is that the delegation was in Vojvodina the day before yesterday in Bačka, more specifically in Ratko...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61252	National MP, you cannot speak in the National Assembly to challenge the freedom of movement of people, goods and capital. This is prohibited by regulations that are in force and apply to a publicly spoken word in the Serbian Parliament or anywhere else, so I ask you on the subject of the agenda and without breaking the laws prohibiting the promotion of the ban on movement of people, goods and capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61253	Mrs. Komic, I made my point, because I witnessed it, and I talked about it three years ago, and I stand behind every word I say. The president of the Danube Germans, as they are called...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61254	People's MP, agenda theme. The amendment you have submitted is very clear and I ask you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61255	That's the theme, Mrs. Comic, because if this amendment is adopted it means that the Folks Deutsches...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61256	People's MPs, you are under obligation to respect article 106 and to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which binds us all after the warning of the chairman and the reminder of the obligations. On the subject of the agenda if you wish to sign up that you can proceed without violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and without contesting the legal rules that are in force in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61257	What could happen if this amendment was adopted?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61258	People's MP, I'm warning you twice before criminal punishment. If you were explaining the amendment, I wouldn't remind you of your obligation to talk about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61259	Mrs. Comic, I know you're having trouble with the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61260	National MP, third warning and first statement of notice on the basis of article 107 and the obligation to give notice to a MP who does not want to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61261	And on Jarinj, we were pointed at NATO rifles. It's okay, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61262	I give you the first warning, and I give you a second warning for demeaning and endangering the dignity of the National Assembly. If you wish to carry out your address to the National Assembly in accordance with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then you and I must know that this has consequences. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balint Pastor. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61263	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, we said our position was satisfied that the government had withdrawn its amendment, but I will look back at a member who caused a lot of controversy over what was heard. I'm kind of obliged and I'll see that I don't speak to any MPs, but to you, Vice President. We heard a lot today in this debate. Let's say Milan Nedic had nothing to do with the old fairground because it was on the territory of another country. It only matters because he was filling it, but aside from that. There was a dangerous relativization of something that shouldn't be. It has been said that the points of view are important and that for someone like JNA was an occupation army, I'm talking about an amendment, about the members of the occupation forces that worked on the territory of Yugoslavia, not for someone. That's right. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn or violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and not to interfere with the speaker as he exhibits. ) For someone entering some parts of Serbia, Partisan and Soviet units were also an occupation, for someone being released. It's all relative, but something that happened during World War II and the general fight against fascism, the anti Hitler police can't be relativized here. Here it was heard, quoting some kind of document, from Subotica, the Restitution League, the formulation of so-called. occupation forces. No, Buck was attached to Horti's Hungary, and it wasn't so-called. The occupation forces, there shouldn't be any dilemma about it. If the JNA was occupational, there are some in Serbia who think Serbia is occupied by the JNA and today, but what happened during World War II must not be subject to relativisation. Simply, antifascism is the basis of the EU. NATO, and as far as I know, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is pushing for Serbia to become a NATO member, has established two of the three anti-fascist countries, namely the leading anti-hitler and anti-fascist coalition forces. That is why it seems to me that this is a solution from the Law that does not have the right to use, to homogenize its voters, which is not disputed, but it is controversial if this leads to the relativisation of something which is the basis of united Europe, which is antifascism. To get back to something concrete, I think it may have been unfortunately formulated by this member, but in any case, it should remain as it is, because in principle this is not about property. Those who were members of the occupation forces themselves, foreign forces, the Bulgarian Army, and Bulgaria occupied part of Serbia, some members and citizens of Yugoslavia were in the military, Hungarians too. We've been talking about this all along, about the return of property, and they haven't been taken away from property, based on the belongings of these forces. Among the members of the occupation forces, there were two types, those who committed crimes and who were tried and who were given a measure of confiscation and others who were amnesty and were not held accountable, although some of them were taken from property, were taken away as all other Serbian citizens, some other laws. Here all the time this law is used to talk about rehab, something that can't be rehabilitated, not property, because if we're going to talk about property, then let's talk about property. Whoever was a member of the occupation forces on that basis, the property was not lost, if he was an ordinary member, then we're talking about ordinary people. The other ones are criminals. Others are the ones who are meant to be. It is indisputable that this is precisely why there is a law on rehabilitation, that it was not a legal state, it is indisputable that there were crimes, and mentioning some shooting of six gendarmes from Kovil is pointless because the Hungarians, when those shootings were, and elsewhere, were not Hungarians, but were Serbs. That's why there's a Rehabilitation Act. I appeal, if we are already fighting a political battle, if the elections are closer, if one limit is still to be maintained, antifascism cannot be questioned, it is not as it was happening in the territory of Backa was a so-called occupation, but it was an actual occupation, as it was there to Nis. We don't have a problem with this, I don't see anyone who can draw the conclusion that this minority has stepped on most of it, or that most want to keep the principle of collective guilt. The principle of collective guilt across Europe is applied only to one nation after the Second World War, to the German people, and to colleagues who fear when it happens, let them read the law and see that point 2) of the other attitude refers to the German minority, in the former Yugoslavia, only to the German minority and, in part, to the Italian minority, the principle of collective guilt has been applied, and in other minorities there is no reason why the issue of property is used for the question of rehabilitation, something that cannot be rehabilitated, when it is clear that World War II was a struggle of the civilized world with something called fascism and that world has won. We want to join this world, and we cannot therefore relatify antifascism as a fundamental value and a united Europe and NATO pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61264	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61265	I've actually explained this amendment. It is that in the last position of Article 5, after the finding that a special law will regulate the issue of property, persons who died in the holocaust, and have no heirs, that, after the words – by law, they put a stop to the point, and that the rest of the sentence is deleted. The issue of building a memorial center, which needs to be built, cannot be and it is offensive that this goes to the expense of property, i.e. persons who were killed in the holocaust. I'm going to use this time just to notice, that Article 5, but also that previous Article 4 has been attended by more or less identical amendments by completely different parliamentary groups. The amendments were submitted to Article 4 by the six parties in this House, four of them from the ruling majority and two from the opposition. I would really ask the Government to seriously consider, that the request, as a way to restore and correct wrongs and return property, is introduced and the process of substituting that property. I'm taking the opportunity, there's an active agriculture minister here, and at least he'd have to have an understanding, because the largest number of claims for the return of property will otherwise apply to agricultural land, and I think the state's property currently has enough, mostly not used, which as a substitution could be offered to the damaged owners of which the country was kidnapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61266	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61267	I won't, Mr. Shami, with the essence of what you've been saying to me, since it's been a debate for a long time. Third or fourth time around untapped agricultural land, I just have to say. In our country, there are about 180,000 acres of parched land. Most of that land is private property, not state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61268	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61269	This is an amendment to the title above Article 6 and Article 6. It's a bill of law. Mr. Minister, if by any chance we had some change of opportunity or a chance to accept or to support in some way, for example, this member or some other member of this bill, which, I must admit, in the context of the theory of the SRS and the bill, but that we had the opportunity to accept some of this, after what we heard from the authorities this morning, that this government was not reading amendments and explanations on these amendments, I think that some promiscuity would simply evaporate. To be clear, we're fully in agreement with a government official who said the government isn't reading this. We've been saying that a long time. I have the impression that this argument that I made in my amendment, too, was simply not read by the Government. Article 6 regulates the return of confiscated and exploited assets. Mr. Minister, in this bill of law, you simply mixed everything up, you put it all in the same jar. For some compromise or who knows what else you want to satisfy with this bill, and those persons whose property has been confiscated and expunged are allegedly satisfied. Here, I'll remind you briefly that confiscation was a fine of property. This punishment has been imposed on alleged perpetrators of criminal acts. The penalty for confiscation of property was issued under the Law on Criminal Crimes against the People and the State, that's what the law was called at the time. So many criminal proceedings, tens of thousands of criminal cases were committed. I don't want to get into the essence of these criminal proceedings, but I have the impression that this government has some scanner, has some kind of magnetic resonance, what if, when it comes to this, she could simply, by one move of her own through, well, a few members or a few dozen members to eliminate everything, get into all those tens of thousands of these criminal proceedings, and eliminate the consequences of these proceedings, the consequences of those judgments. The property, based on expropriation, was managed by the so-called at the time of the National Goods Administration. Just to remind you, after that, a state-level state administration of national goods was founded, and that property went into state property at that point. These districts kept records of all the assets confiscated in so-called books on the temporary record of confiscated property in the county and the list of persons whose property was confiscated, and then the record said what was with that person, whether he was on the run, and then somewhere in the escape, it said he had fled with the Chetniks, somewhere he had run off with the enemies of the state, etc. So it's obvious that the confiscation was made for retaliating the communist regime. It's obvious that criminal proceedings have been conducted. It's obvious that this was meant to be the subject of something else, some other law, Mr. Minister. This was supposed to be the subject of the Rehabilitation Act, which was withdrawn from this congregation for your known reasons, but you never should have put it all in the same basket. Mr. Minister, with this law when you adopt it, you'll make one dangerous precedent. You will impose an obligation on all Serbian citizens and their descendants who know in the future how long to return something that you really couldn't by one such act to know that in all cases it was just like that. You will create a commitment to future generations, and you have already created a commitment to many future generations with senseless borrowing. Do you know how much this government has concluded loans under unfavourable conditions? Well, that'll be the future generation coming back. There are now commitments being made for new and new generations. In the end, I really wouldn't brag about the fact that this is a European law, not only this, but these laws that you're submitting to the Assembly. I really don't think that should be a thank-you or a commendation because it's the same EU that was created on the assets of that European community, created by the United States of Rockefeller and Ford funds, from the same funds that funded Hitler's arrival in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61270	Four minutes and 13 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61271	Not to be confused, if you look closely at this member of the law, then it is clear that it is not a general provision for all confiscated assets, but the right to receive their property back under the provisions of this law has persons who have succeeded in the rehabilitation process with their request. I'm not going into whether the law needs to be changed or not, it's going to be decided by the Assembly, but there's a Rehabilitation Act now. It has no property implications but only determines whether proceedings are conducted in accordance with certain civilised and civilizational rules or not, and that law gives one procedure on the basis of which it is determined whether decisions which are suspected are against the rules of civilization, whether they should remain in force or not. According to this law, those who are found to be damaged in these proceedings, being wrongly convicted, so that, in addition to other penalties, the sentence of confiscation, they can get that property back, so that they are individual cases. This isn't a general measure. I think that law is pretty clear. Whether or not the Rehabilitation Act will be amended or not, of course, you will decide here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61272	MP Mirko Munjic. The time available to the parliamentary group is 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61273	Can I get a replica of the minister's statement?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61274	You have no right to a replica. Please, no throwing and no commenting. I don't have to explain why I see whether anyone has a right to a replica or not, and I'm asking all of us together to listen to what we say, not to be carelessly speaking words, and then we think we're right, and we didn't listen to ourselves. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61275	I fully agree with Mr Mirko Munjic that this should have been the subject of the rehabilitation law and that he himself is a member of 6. The bill became very problematic when, in a magical way, the Law on Rehabilitation was removed on 14 September, because there is now a huge space for different interpretations of the provision that the right to return of confiscated property has persons who will be rehabilitated on the basis of the rehabilitation requirements filed under this law. Mr. Minister, we know there is a Rehabilitation Act, but you are probably not informed that the government has proposed a new law on rehabilitation, i.e. amending the existing law and in a magical way approximately 10 days ago he was removed from the agenda. The public needs to read the part we responded to with the amendment. Therefore, Article 6(1) states: "The provisions of this law apply to assets confiscated after 9 March 1945, provided that the former owner is rehabilitated until the date of entry into force of this law or is rehabilitated on the basis of the rehabilitation requirements laid down in Article 42(6) of this Law, in accordance with a special law." Of course, the question is which, but this was written at a time when the legislator assumed that the amended Rehabilitation Act had already been adopted. So far, I have not understood the government's reasons for the law itself which she has proposed withdrawing from the agenda, and now, in the light of this for not accepting our amendment, I see what the reason is. The amendment proposed that Article 6(1), after saying, "which has been confiscated", is added: "before and after 9 March 1945". Why doesn't the government accept our amendment? The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the Republic of Serbia cannot accept the obligation to remove the consequences of property rights violations of citizens whose property has been seized since 6 April 1941 during World War II, as it is an obligation for the state of occupation to compensate for the war damage done on occupied territory. This is why the largest number requires that the property be returned to those who were taken by alleged verdicts in the name of the people, this is why the Rehabilitation Act was amended. What we all know, which is a fact, why we, after all, have not started this amendment, is that the historic robbery that was carried out here during World War II on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, certainly did not begin on 9 March 1945, no matter what was legal then. The liquidation and robbery by the communist authorities was carried out already in the fall of 1944 and the victims of that period should certainly be compensated by this law. In addition, this amendment, which we have proposed, would include the denationalisation of assets that had been seized before October 1944, means, at a time when the executions of citizens without trial were fully clear, without conviction, without the identification of guilt from the communist authorities, and in order to intimidate the population or take away property without legal basis and legal action with pure violence. Among other things, with regard to this Article 6, it should be noted that all the former Yugoslav republics in their laws on denationalisation, such as the applicable laws on expropriation, have passed republican laws on expropriation according to the Yugoslav Constitution of 1974, which transposed the issue of expropriation to republican legislation. This, of course, applies to the Croatian Law, for example, on denationalisation. Contrary to all, Serbian legislators, as the reason for denationalisation in Serbia, are taking federal expropriation law, based on the Yugoslav Constitution of 1963, which formally introduces the notion of fair compensation for expunged private property. The fleet was only incorporated into the federal Expropriation Act in 1968 and was applied without clear criteria of evaluation of the fairness of compensation. Compensation for expunged assets under federal law is much lower than the compensation provided in accordance with the later Republic Expropriation Act, which had clearly developed valuation criteria with sublaws, and thus the compensations were, of course, closer to the real values. The choice of a federal instead of a republican law clearly speaks of the ideological reluctance of the legislator towards denationalisation, it is clear that the desire to choose as poor a solution as possible for the search engines taken away from the property whose private continent is violently exploited. Keep in mind that this whole article 6 is really becoming controversial when this new rehabilitation law has disappeared in a magical way and that it should be changed as a whole, and that accepting our amendment is the best way to correct some injustice after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61276	Three minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61277	Just for a little while. The second article lists all the laws which have an impact and which will be applied when this law is applied, among other things, and the property treatment law, which the owners had to leave during the occupation and the assets taken from them by the occupiers and their assistants from 1945, as well as the law on certificates and amendments and additions to the Law on the handling of property, etc. So in 1945, these laws established a legal basis, that all those to whom the assets were seized during the occupation, which was done by the occupation authorities, could return to that property. If they didn't come back, and it's known that many people left the country and didn't show up to take possession of their property, then the state took over the property. So, all those persons, or their successors, can come forward under this restitution law and can claim if they prove to be entitled and the right to follow-up is to gain property over that property. As regards the possible differences in the fee received in the expropriation proceedings after 1968 when this new standard was established, according to the applicable rules, it is possible that everyone is seeking the difference between what was established in those procedures as a compensation, unless it corresponds to market value, as the Expropriation Act now states. So, for these cases you've been talking about, there's a legal solution in Serbia right now. So these were the reasons why the government did not adopt these amendments. Otherwise, the topic you're talking about is completely legitimate and in place. I think it was important to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61278	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) `To the title above Article 8 and Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61279	When we were making amendments to this law, we had a dilemma in the form of a question, whether to cast emphasis on the past or the future of this country in terms of economic, political and legal development. Of course, we defined ourselves, both in one sense and in another, for legal certainty, and that was our primary goal. Also, we have been defined and this shows this amendment to Article 8 to be principled against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. More specifically, this Article 8 provides that the seized property may be returned in terms of compensation. In principle, Mr Djelic admitted to us that this law and Article 8 would be given in this context, a higher fee and more cash compensation than is provided for by the German law of 1991. He made it illogical that such a poor country, which, according to Mr Djelic's recognition, in a kind of start of transition, no matter what it means in practice, gives more compensation, greater compensation in a monetary sense, than the EU's first economy. That is why we have submitted this amendment to Article 8 to be deleted, because we believe that, in the budget and at all in the reserves of the Republic of Serbia, there is not enough resources in the near sight, so that one megalomanic plan could be met. The finance minister who authored this law has admitted in one statement that the largest sum will come from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is completely unclear if you are making a deal with the IMF, which criticises the budget deficit already over 4% of GDP, how can a day-long borrowing be done? A complete illogicality that only explains that the IMF wants you to be more in charge of foreign creditors. We are principled against any further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we are also against this Article 8th and other members who predict that monetary compensation will be carried out. We think that for generations that come after us, we should leave an economic situation that will not be further difficult by borrowing one, essentially, a megalomanical project and a pre-election law like the one we're discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61280	45 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond jointly submitted to the 8th Amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Rade Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together to the 8th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61281	Six political parties in this parliament have asked the government as a proponent to include in this bill the replacement of assets as a form of natural restitution, four political parties from the ruling coalition and two opposition parties, and this is obviously nothing for the government. That request is nothing to you. I would like to underline that the political parties involved here have large insurmountable political differences on a number of other issues. It says this is a very rational proposal, and it's amazing to me that you don't respect it. The fact that some of these amendments do not elaborate on a detailed way of processing a possible substitution is not a reason not to take this into account, so the government has the capacity of the office and everything it needs to exceed the proposal that has come into play and that it is on the committee responsible in the time between the main search and the debate in particular, so that it could be better than even any of these amendments that we have submitted. But it doesn't matter to you. What's the difference? There's a big difference between these two moments. If you don't have a natural restitution in the form of a replacement, then for every thing you can't return in the original form, you have to pay compensation in government bonds, and that means money in translation. It's even expressed here in euros. That money, under one, must be paid by taxpayers and by the vast majority of citizens who do not belong to the group that will be compensated, who have nothing to return. These people are going to have to pay for it, and they're going to pay the ones they're supposed to pay back, because they're taxpayers on a variety of grounds, so that means that's their pocket too. It's a paradox in this whole situation. You've limited that money. Of course you've limited it to two billion euros and, of course, the beneficiaries of the refund will end up getting not those 500 grand, which you said here is the maximum, because that's a lie, in the process of cash compensation, when everything is collected, subtracted and weighted by article. 30 and 31 will get 20, 30, 40 or 50 grand, even though maybe the property that you can't pay back to them is worth a million or worth it at the time of the seizure, re-valorized, of course. You don't care about that. Where's the damage? It is a shame for those to be returned, and it is a shame for the citizens of Serbia who need to pay for the mistake of former authorities. If you are now wondering – where is the formula of success, how are we going to solve it, so that we will be the first country to apply the replacement in a smart way. In disputed situations, there are courts. What are you afraid of, involving a court case in this galatias? What else is it going to turn on? And here you'll have litigation, anyway. It is an incredible stubbornness that the proponent refuses to include the institute in this bill which is a rescue solution to the restitution problem. What we heard from God Djelic that it is impossible to replace property because it has proved bad in some countries that have applied it, it is total nonsense. That argument is nonexistent, it's a zero argument, it doesn't exist. As for the application of that other law that was or will be on the agenda tonight, so it was used as an argument for this member and for this law, it was used by the proposings, where it is said – this asset swap is not possible because the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities has not shown that there has been any case of asset replacement. Of course, there was no case where this government didn't want to appoint a director and there was a silent agreement between the government and the Restitution Directorate, that no case would happen. It's a hoax of the National Assembly, that kind of explanation. It's really not normal. Please accept this amendment and accept all similar amendments from other parliamentary groups that advocate this kind of thing, other parliamentary parties. This is the only solution. If you're not sure that you can find a model by which in a nomotechnical sense it would be a perfect lie, withdraw the law, suggest it again in 15 days with a different model and let's do some useful thing for the citizens of this country, all the citizens of this country, and for those who need to be taken back.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61282	It was used three minutes from the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61283	Not to repeat what counterpart Aligrudic said about the consensus, at least six parties to include in this law a provision on replacement restitution in cases where no natural restitution is possible, not to mention, and that in this Article, paragraph 2, it was necessary to define what is considered a legitimate reason for the inability to return to the state's former owner, which was one of the objections, let's say, traditional churches and religious communities, which you probably had the opportunity to hear during the public debate. What is also true is that, for the first time, Article 8 appears to favor other persons in relation to the former owner, i.e. a person entitled to return property by predicting that if the return of the state is not immediately possible, the old new owner has to enter into a lease relationship with a person who is the current holder of things. More ancient Romans have defined the state as one of the basic attributes of property with the right of the owner to freely dispose of his property. That is not the case here, so the question is rightly asked – what is this property? We then asked the owner of the bar to have a legal basis to ask the competent court to regulate his relationship with the holder in a manner appropriate to market conditions in the case, and it will certainly be so when this one does not want to, which practically meant that Article 8(2) said, "if this law is not otherwise regulated," adds a new sentence, which reads: "In case the lease relationship is not established within three months of the date of implementation of the return decision, each party may request that the court regulate their relationship". We have proposed by amendment a solution to a situation which certainly not only can, but will strive in practice that this old owner and immobiliser cannot reach a compromise in terms of defining a lease based on real market parameters. In this regard, it is quite logical to apply the solution that is otherwise provided for in Article 19. The bill, when it comes to delaying the state's transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61284	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Jugovic tabled an amendment proposing that the title and new Article 8a be added after Article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić together submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61285	This is the same thing, we asked for a replacement to be added to the title above the members. You see, it's incomprehensible how someone can come to mind that it's better for the state to pay something out of the budget and the funds they make than to give something in physical form, in the natural form that it has and thus fulfils the obligation to those who are beneficiaries of the compensation. That marble I can't figure out. I can't figure out where it might come from to someone to make it easier for them to raise the money that this country's hard-earned pain makes, because the economy is usually brought to a collapse, that it's easier for them to take one thing instead of the other, whose value is legally assessed and that someone who owes it to them instead of this first thing. I don't get it. Who can explain to me the logic by which this is more effective and better, which you suggested than what I'm saying, I take off his hat. The only logic is that you were forced to do this quickly, the story of Bozidar Djelic that he had been thinking about this for years or dreaming about this law is completely pointless. The content of this law speaks more than any argument, that the form and method of compensation that is intended here is quick. We'll get this thing back that we owe, which is free, healthy and whole to pay you back, if we don't owe you, we'll pay you. Since we don't have to pay you, we're actually going to give you a symbolic payment. That's what you write in this law. Is it possible, because of those families, the heirs of those people who have thus been deprived of their property and who may have been passing by that property for decades, which is not theirs, but has been a state of all these 60 years, is it possible for these persons to be treated so? Is it possible to treat other citizens of the Serbian state, who have nothing to return, this is how you treat them?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61286	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61287	We have proposed this amendment to add item 2 to Article 9 after Article 1 – if a company or other legal person demonstrates that the property has been acquired by cargo law, at market price at the time of transfer of property rights, that company, i.e. the legal person, remains the owner of the immovable property. Where a person who has acquired the right of ownership or another legal person who contains in it the right to dispose of immovable property, on the basis of legal work, for which no market price is paid at the time of transfer, he is obliged to return immovable property, in accordance with Article 1(1) of this Article. We have also proposed adding another member, after Article 4, to add the 5th position, which is – the obligation to give the other relevant land has a legal person who has been taken away from the land. In the case where the former owner, under the provisions of this law, belongs to the right to cash compensation for the seized land, the payment of the fee falls on the burden of the legal person using the land at the time of fixing the fee. In the event that the seized land is located in private property, the compensation shall be borne by a legal person who has alienated the land. I really don't see any reason for the government to explain not accepting this amendment saying that it is contrary to the concept of the law, because we believe that such a solution would actually allow the damages to be more justly compensated in this whole restitution process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61288	The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61289	Article 10. The draft law on the return of the seized property and the compensation speaks of the protection of holders of ownership rights and of state and its certain acquired rights, which must not be violated. By amendment, which I have filed in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask that the title above article 10 be deleted. The resolutions in the entire bill are being carried out by historical injustices, which the MPs spoke of, both by opposition parties and by ruling parties, and even by one MP of the ruling party said that he himself does not know whether it is more unfair to adopt this law or whether it is more unfair not to adopt it, the law on the return of the seized property. For principled reasons, we in the SRS parliamentary group believe that this amendment is justified, as we find it unwarranted to apply the provision of Article 10. The proposal for a law relative to some other asset holders set out in this proposal for a law. Or, more specifically, the provision of Article 10 of this proposal is acceptable, Mr. Minister, if we consider it and interpret it separately from the other parts of the bill. It seems to be a greater injustice in this whole law than it is possible to bring about the application of the provisions of this Member of the bill. But in principle, there is a problem in which other property rights entities, based on maintenance and other legal rules, are protected and secured to provide legal certainty for Serbian citizens, who today, unfortunately, do not exist in our country. This article 10, to which I have submitted the amendment, does not provide enough. It is right to ask what is the obligation to return state property in natural form and compensation in the form of government bonds and money, as referred to in Article 9 of this proposal of the law, because the amendment to the reasoning points to the injustice of Article 9 of your bill, which is the State. The state as entities, the head of law, as you said at the previous point of this session, that the state owns public property, among other things. No public property, public property can only be state property. What about the head of state property, or by you public property? Does the debtor of returned property and compensation, i.e. the state, have any right to that basis, based on maintenance? The state will need a lot of money to make damages to former owners who have and exercise the right under this bill. From Article 10. The bill highlights the assumption that the obligor will make damages to former owners, but there is even an injustice according to a category of state-owned assets. In any case, this law of injustice that will exist towards most of the entities mentioned in this bill will not be removed, and that is the problem that we MPs of the SRS point out and for whom, we see, the other MPs, even the ruling parties, speak in terms of ambiguity and whether such a proposal should have been submitted for the return of the seized property and damages.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61290	It was used two minutes from the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61291	I do not believe that this amendment should be accepted, because Article 10 provides that the holder of the property, which after the possession of the property, has, in accordance with the law, acquired the right of ownership, remains the owner and holder of the property and its acquired rights, must not be violated. If the proposed amendment were to be adopted, this would mean that the asset holder, who, in accordance with the law, acquired certain assets, could be injured. It is the bill of law that I consider to be more protective of asset holders, who, in accordance with the law, have acquired property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61292	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61293	Article 10, principle of protection of the stickers. All that's nice, only the question remains where is the principle of protecting the old owners? We believe that the sticker must be safestan, in line with the legal theory postulates, in order to be able to invoke this principle, so in that sense we have tabled an amendment. Why would someone who had been given something in a legally prescribed way, surely having to know about the origin of the gift, enjoy protection under the provisions of this law? So we intervened so that in article 10 after saying, "he acquired the right of property" we added the words "to the burden of legal work" without knowing or not knowing about the origin of the property. The grant of the seized property was in accordance with the law, but that does not mean that the owner of the property, which he acquired in such a way, should be appalled from the obligation to return the property to the rightful owner. Also, the purchase of such property, which was paid significantly below the market price, should not represent the end of the story, if such a customer, in a specific case, knew what to buy, or that such property was taken away in some of the many ways counted in Article 2. It's a bill of law. So, in our opinion, only a lifesaver, as defined by the legal theory, should be excluded from the obligation to return the property in question. In addition, Article 25 paragraph 1(3) provides that, among other things, land in social or cooperative property is not returned to the burden of legal work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61294	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61295	I thank you, Madam Chairman, if we are across three hours in the section of the 5th to 10th members, this really speaks of the seriousness of the problem and the topics and amendments that all the parliamentary groups and the ruling and opposition parties have endured. But, Mr. Minister, I hope we understand each other here about Article 10. There's really no reason not to understand each other, if our amendment intervention isn't on Article 10 trying to break the concept that you've come up with about the bill, or the Ministry of Finance for the draft law on the return of seized property and compensation. I repeat once again that there has been a lack of legal spirit, as well as that our amendment intervention comes down to the fact that article 10 remains except for this text which says that his personal rights must not be violated, that is, the rights of the founder of property. I note, if someone has acquired the right to property, it is protected by the Constitution, by laws, by all the rules of international law, and there is no reason to point out here that his acquired rights must not be violated. In the front part of the text, everything is done properly and in the context of this, there is really no meaning, no meaning of the text that I am talking about, and there is no reason not to accept this amendment, which neither ruins the concept, nor the idea of the Government, but only legally regulates, or better regulates, casts out a part of the text that we believe is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61296	The title above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have requested, on behalf of the SRS, the expropriation of this member. The reason is simple, because we believe that this right cannot be achieved on any basis, or that there is no legal basis for achieving it. But what gives me the right to claim that the amendment is absolutely acceptable, and not only this but almost all amendments to the SRS, is that MPs of all MPs have come to the conclusion that this is one law that is really going to cause such an effect that one will be compensated, as they think it should, therefore, be satisfied with the compensation, the other will be symbolically compensated, some will not be compensated at all, but we will all, in fact, suffer great damage, along with those same people who think they will get something, because in the end, you will separate these two billion euros from their pockets, as estimated and as much as the government says they will cost this law. When I look back at these 11 years, what has been happening in our country, what laws we have brought under the pressure of the EU, and all with the justification that only this set of laws is coming closer to the EU, we can ask ourselves whether it is the EU's intention that these laws, which we need to adopt in this session, seal the complete fate of Serbia, to destroy us economically, and that we cannot recover in the next 30, 40 years, and we are going to take their hand. Perhaps the ruling majority thinks -- which we care about, we promised the EU that we would cooperate, let's pass these laws, we will not be in the next term or who knows when, so let some other power after rubbing its head and where it will pay for what we have now brought. So, there's some political climate, some majority vote some law, whether it should, whether it doesn't have to, whether it makes sense, doesn't make sense, just, unfairly, costs us, doesn't cost us, doesn't matter what you care. You think it's political responsibility or you think maybe you're not responsible at all. And you know what - one day it might be a question of whether or not you have had this budget right or wrong. Indeed, I don't know who gives you the right and therefore when you adopt the budget and when you plan these funds in the budget for these purposes, how do you intend to explain it? You have a law to enforce, so we'll get that money, but where do we get the money, people? Where do we get the money? Should we go borrow? Maybe no one will give us those loans anymore. We want to crack like Greece! To fight in the election campaign for some 100,000 votes, as far as I hear there are registered, those who have registered their assets and their claims for the return of property. Or maybe you're counting -- if there's 100,000 demands, maybe there's 200,000 votes, so now let's slaughter the bull for a kilo of meat. If you're looking at everything so closely, you can really pass all kinds of laws, but you should take political responsibility to see what the interest of the state is, not to talk about those reasons that my colleagues raised against this law. But here's just this economic aspect to look at-- is there even a time to even think about something like this? But you promised someone something, so now you are consistent, you will keep your promise, as well as those of Dinkic thousands of euros. That's how it works out. But you were declaring it, so now you're going to finish your job. I don't know how many arguments more to give you for this law to back down and we'll all regret it, that future generations will judge us if you vote this law. Here, once again, I urge you, on behalf of the SRS, and even in this debate in particular, to consider withdrawing the law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61298	Three minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61299	The position of the SRS is to delete both Article 13 as well as all 66 members of the Restitution Law, for the reasons we talked about, which we are talking about and to talk about. The key reasons why this law must not be passed, and therefore Article 13 is deleted, is that the property you want to return has been confiscated under the law, that the property you want to return has been taken away with compensation, that the property you want to return is owned or state-owned by other legal or natural persons for more than 60 years, and that means that long ago the right to maintain property, Minister, you are a lawyer should know that. But you who will vote for this law should accept the amendment and delete Article 13 from this law. It is recalled that the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets was adopted on 8 June 2005. Thirteen months went on to report that property, and that job is over. Of course, you'll see, if you ever go into this procedure, how many double and double demands you're going to have, how many cases you're going to have that more person with aspiration to get that immobility back. Of course, this law of yours will only contribute to making this mess as much as possible. Since Mr Djelic here said in the principle debate that he had been dreaming about this law for years, I guess from the time he slept on his aunt's couch, before he got 11m euros, probably as much as most of whose assets you wanted to return, you should have seen that you promised the EU and your dear European friends that you would bring this law to you, even before Angela Merkel came to you and ordered you to bring this, of course, first of all, to return the property to "folkdotzers", you should have that fact in mind and not to allow what you, not by chance, very consciously and intentionally did. You've sold all that property that you knew you'd return nicely to your tycoons, party friends, party financiers past the tender under your hands, not to mention under the grains for cheap money, etc., and now you're going to return that property to those former owners, and you're going to pay your friends in the name of compensation to pay huge funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in other words from the pockets of Serbian citizens. I asked, Minister Djelic, I ask you now, Mr. Minister. Do you have in mind how you will solve some of the cases that you treat permanently, let's say that you will solve the return of a villa that you gave without legal basis to Ružica Djindjic, which has already been given in the court dispute by a family and without this law that is entitled to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61300	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. So, for the amendment submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic, there are no reports. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61302	We are in the process of issuing documents and data, and we are fully in agreement with Article 13, i.e. the proposed text, with the fact that we think it is necessary to add the views of 2 and 3 that are not even in breach of the concept and the idea of the law, but we are considering this situation, which is very important that the former owners who have been damaged by the fact that they have to be exempt from this process of issuing documents and data, and we stress this in Article 2, which is: "no administrative fees, court fees, fees, fees, or any other kind of cost" and what is important, and what we suggest by supplementing Article 13, which is that the former owner and his successors cannot bear any consequences for failing to issue the documentation referred to in Article 1, within the prescribed time period, have the right to compensate for the damage caused by the failure or indemnity of issuing of the documentation to be subject to the authority. I think the extra explanation is every other explanation for what we've completed with points 2 and 3. The proposal of Article 13 and that the category of persons of 140, 150, 200 thousand people had Generationally acquired property until the period when it was taken from them. I think that Serbia would round the whole process of these laws by even one of the most important laws, which is the law on the return or confiscation of property to persons who have been criminally involved since 1988 and further acquired that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61303	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61304	The essence of what you are proposing is given in Article 38 of the Law where it says that the acquisition of property and the achievement of compensation under this law is not subject to any amount of tax, administrative and judicial fees. That's the first part of what you're talking about. Secondly, I think that under the general rules of property law, if by any action or inaction, including, of course, the action and inaction of the state to do what it is required for someone to do harm, that he has the right to compensation for damages. So I think that this member and the general rules that apply in property law, we have a solution that you have proposed by your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61305	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61306	We're not in coordination today. I don't think it's a good idea to take it because it's not explicitly said. Article 38 shall not cover the situation referred to in Article 13. Article 13, which we have submitted the amendment, states that all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government and other bodies and organisations are obliged to issue, within the limits of their responsibilities and without delay, and no later than 30 days from the date of submission, all the necessary documents referred to in Articles 4(3) to 6 of this Act which I have. However, those who seek that tax documentation are not released, i.e. the cost of the issue. We asked that it be explicitly stated, that someone who asks for the seized property does not have the cost of taxis, that's the first attitude, the supplement we have given, and the second is that by incurring an administration or by missing the time limit for the delivery of the documentation, he does not suffer any harm, which we have defined by the amendment in the following way. "The former owner and his successors cannot bear any consequences due to the failure to issue the documentation referred to in Article 1 within the prescribed time limit and have the right to compensation for damage caused by the failure or untimely issuing of documentation on the burden of the authority which was obliged to issue the documentation. So, article 38 says that when they come into possession of property and whose return they're looking for, they don't pay the cost of books, transfers, rights, etc. But we were looking for something else that you might have meant, but to explicitly state that the tax is not paid and that the citizen who submits the request for return does not suffer any damage because he is limited by the deadline, without suffering any damage if due to the administration that deadline is missed. I think I've made it a little bit clear about the request we've had with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61307	Two minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first position of Article 14 reads as follows: "The compensation paid in money or in the securities of the former owner under the rules laid down in Article 2 of this law is not taken into account when determining the right to return of property, or compensation". This is the wording of Article 14. The government completely denied all those MPs from the ruling coalition who claimed that after World War II there had been what they said was the kidnapping of assets from former owners. So the government has itself admitted that this is not about taking property but about taking away property rights on real estates with compensation. That compensation has been paid, as we can see, in Article 14 or in money or in securities of value. In this sense, the findings do not stand and fall into the water of the assumption that someone has now kidnapped someone, so now the current generation of Serbian citizens due to this abduction should be responsible and that the present generation or future generations are paying off because someone has been kidnapped. So, there was no kidnapping, there was a confiscation of property rights, but with compensation. Has that compensation always been fair? It can be discussed, but you know, Mr. Minister, and today, when someone takes away something from you, say, in the expropriation process he looks to pay you as little as possible, and you're looking to get as much as possible and never as much as possible by someone who's been taken away from you in the expropriation process or in some other process of limiting property rights on immovable property he's not satisfied with after World War II, he's always trying to get more, and whoever's taken away from him, or some other public authority entity, is paying him as little, simple as possible, that's the logic of the market, but it wasn't just after World War II, it's happening today, it's going to happen in 50 and 100 years, and here the SRS is asking a completely legitimate question, is going to say to anyone in 70 years's mind, let me now to pass a law on the compensation of all those who are being expungated i. You know, they are paid a fee, but that fee isn't fair, now let's pay them back. So we go into one vicious circle and then this whole procedure completely loses its meaning. What we think, in this Article 14, is really unfair, wait for people, as possible, something the state gave you for taking some money or some securities from value, but it doesn't matter now. We're starting to assume that you didn't get anything. That doesn't count on that damage claim you're asking for to the state. It's really not a fair solution. If the former owner has received money or received some securities of value, why this would not be calculated and why this would not be taken into account when submitting its request or its successors for compensation for the seized immovableity. It really doesn't make any sense. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, here is the next question – why should the Republic of Serbia, as a sovereign and independent state, have to be responsible for acts of government taken by the former communist Yugoslavia. Are you here in Article 2 which is also mentioned in Article 14, not only the laws passed by the then National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Serbia, but also the official lists of the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia, the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, etc. The former communist Yugoslavia was ruled not only by personnel from Serbia, but by personnel from Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia. I don't need to remind you, Mr. Minister, of the fact that all central Serbia's economic plants are transported to Slovenia and are now the owner of all these facilities of the Slovenian state, not the Serbian state. I'm sorry they're not colleagues from the SVM. That's what we were talking about today. In late 1944 and early 1945, you, Mr. Minister, probably know, was formed military administration for Banat, Bacak and Baranja, commander of the military administration from Croatia, General Ivan Rukavina. Does the current Croatia have something to do with the fact that the seizure of property in Vojvodina, i.e. in Bacak, Banat and Baranja, came to foreign personnel from Croatia? (President: People's Parliament, please bring into contact all that you speak of on the subject of the agenda. Amendment to Article 14. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, throws away, violates the Rules of Procedure. I give you my first warning. So please talk about the agenda. ) Here, Mrs. Comic, I'm really trying to... (President: The People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta, continues to cast and disrupt my efforts to establish order at the session in accordance with Article 27. The second time I warn you to stop, to interrupt the session and not interfere with the session's conduct. Here you are, MP, on the subject of the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, Member of the 14th among other calls for Article 2. It's a bill of law. In Article 2. The bill of law... (President: People's Messenger, you know better than I what is a search in detail. So you have submitted an amendment to article 14. ) which refers to Article 2. (President: Member 2 was in search of details in... ) But Article 14, Mrs. Comić, can't be understood properly if you don't read and you don't go back to Article 2. (President: National MP, your amendment says that this member is deleted. So, I'm asking you about the amendment, which is on the agenda. I'd love to if you'd let me talk. (President: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course not. If you think you're committing an act of verbal rape, then I won't speak. (President: I now warn you that you do not use ways that are not born to you, as a speaker, as a People's Messenger, and now especially not... I don't think they're Mr. Comic, they seem to be. (President: People's Parliament, you are required to hear, that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. The agenda, which we now have - a search in particular, an amendment to Article 14. Your amendment reads that both the name and the member are deleted. I'm asking you about the agenda. If you want to continue, you have the time available to the parliamentary groups, just sign in. ) Because of the citizens of Serbia, so they don't think I'm misusing the Rules of Procedure. In Article 14(1), it is nice to say this way – a fee which is paid in cash by virtue of the rules laid down in Article 2 of this Act, etc. I am now trying to explain to the present Mr. Minister that, among other things, Articles 2 and 2 of the regulations are cited not only by the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Serbia, but also by the regulations adopted by the then federal government, which were published in the "Official Journal of the DFJ" and the "Official Journal of the FNRJ", and not only by the personnel of Serbia, but also by the personnel from Croatia, political, ideological, military, etc. (Chairman: Both for the second time and for the last time, I am asking you on the subject of the agenda. So it's mocking procedures and mocking the Rules of Procedure that obliges you to talk about the subject of the agenda. ) Thank you, Mrs. Comic, I think the citizens have understood, and if you haven't, I'm very sorry. (President: I am also sorry that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure and that you feel that you are allowed to break the rules and that it is because you wish to declare your political position, completely irrelevant to what it says in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which provide for me and me to safeguard dignity and respect for the National Assembly and respect for all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The skill of the MP is to declare his political position, but in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm more sorry than you are that you won't do it. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61309	Article 14 refers to the non-accounting of the received and lost profits and treats that first position of Article 14 where it states that the compensation paid in cash or securities of the former owner under the rules laid down in Article 2 of this Act shall not be taken into account when determining the right to return the property, or compensation. The second point of view is that it cannot be required to return the fruit or damage compensation and we think that it is fine, but we have asked that the first member, or Article 14’s position be deleted, because this attitude is prescribed that the compensation be paid in money or securities of value, for the goods that were exscribed before 1968, is not taken into account when determining the right to return the property, i.e. compensation. What's interesting? You wrote in the explanation of Article 14’s 1st position, which speaks of this in the part that treats the reasoning of legal solutions, that it was for the reason that the fee was far below the fee which could be considered appropriate, but there was no indication of how much that difference was. We don't think that it can be unconditionally claimed for all cases that this fee was insignificant to that extent and that it should not be included at all. Therefore, the provision of Article 14(1) should be deleted because, for each individual case, it is necessary to determine whether there is a difference between what you consider accepted and what you consider to be fair compensation, and indeed in terms of achieving justice, not completely eliminated because it issues bonds of 2 billion euros for the state of this force, and such finances, it is not, however, and regardless of the commitment to restitution and justice, should not be loaded on its own neck with what it does not have to be. So, not to tell everyone what you have received in time is worth nothing, or it has not been fair, but to count, or to calculate the difference between the fair fee and the one you consider completely worthless, because we really feel that there is a difference between the situation where someone is paid a fee in relation to cases, when this seizure is done without any compensation, and this solution is put into the same situation, or position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61310	One minute was used by a representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61311	Of course, all who participated in writing this law were now carefully considering what you were talking about. What I can say is that in 1968, all the fees paid were essentially inadequate compared to the amount of property that was changed by the owner in one way or another, by this or that regulation. On the other hand, there's another thing that's fundamentally important, and that's that when it comes to the position that the restitution is legitimate, I think for the largest number and MPs here is the situation and the position and the question of using things that have been taken away by the state all this time, and there's certainly a compensation that isn't insignificant in making this member. The third thing is, of course, a rather complex process of calculating monetary values from a time that is very long in a completely different financial system which is in a very special way when it determines the value of money and the way it would be converted into the current currency in which we calculate the prices and what is the means of payment here. So all three things have defined the legislator to come to this position so that what is given is not accounted for. Generally speaking, now I'm going to go beyond what you've been talking about, it's perfectly natural that in such a complex matter there are both cross-referencing opinions and diametrically opposite populations and here we can hear today all these days and I understand that they represent positions that at this point the restitution is not justified and that it should not be implemented. There are reasons, as well as that there is a need to single out more money than what is defined here, and we listen to very significant reasons, so that the government, standing at the point of view that such a law is necessary, is important to make one not only moral but, in real circumstances, as well as a material act of compensation and return of property, has made such a proposal. I think it's precious to hear all of this that we've been talking about for a few days, and in the end, most of the MPs decide what this text of the law will definitely look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61312	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61313	You'll take away from me from the time of the authorized representative, not as a replica, but as an addition to what you just said. It's a legitimate right for one who is in a position to prescribe restitution rules to decide in one way or another. I mean, you weren't entirely consistent in that. For the right, it gives me an amendment to Article 15 that speaks of vomiting not only of immobilities but of Article 3, it speaks of the return of movable things, where you will see what you have forgotten from moving things to mention, we have reminded you of it with your amendment, and you, not of adoption, have rejected it where in fact you deny that kind of justice that you have just brought up and which I respect in what you have said was completely insignificant, or may be considered as such in the sense of these fees for securities of value, accounting, etc. I respect your desire to make up for as much as possible, but broad arms can be the one who has. I'm not sure the state is as broad-handed as it is to be able to do that. If that justice is not consistently carried out, I will explain when the next amendment is made to Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61314	Used a minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Chapter II, title above Article 15. and Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61315	Mr. Petrovic, since you're a lawyer by profession, you'll understand what I'm talking about. Article 15 has three positions. I'd like to ask you to read together the right attitude, see what someone wrote there. The beginning and the end of the sentence simply logically has nothing to do with it. "This law restores the immobilities and moving things in the public property of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, or units of local self-government." Today we do not have public property, we will have when this law is in force, which is the right point of the agenda. This public property is in state, social and cooperative property. How is that possible, people? Watch out, public property law, there won't be any state, social and cooperative property. You say, "except for things in property for friends and social and cooperative property that the possessor has earned with compensation." In the social property he acquired with compensation. Is it clear to anyone what's written? Nebulose. The position of 2nd forest and forest land. Well, they're in different woods and forest land. If you didn't know, the forest is root, tree, branch, leaf, and forest land is down. The forest is cut, forest land cannot be cut. You'll be returning early to the owner of his forest. Well, what's that forest now? Six times that forest was cut, but good. It says -- which exists on the day of entry into force of this law. Item 3 is absolutely unclear. "The subject of return are state-owned mobile items entered in the public register." Since 1946, since 1950 and some year, the Public Register for Moving Things has been with the police to register passenger cars, trucks, etc. Do you know which other register existed? For the grappa, for the lamp, no other register existed. How are you gonna get the chairs back, the chiffoniers, the style furniture, the carpets, etc.? Now, in the case of moving things that are culturally good, Mr Petrovic, when you go to the office, look for Kolekki v. Slovakia, 28 September 2004. This verdict was read by some parliamentary groups, which is why they have certain amendments on individual matters, but just to draw your attention, the subject of the dispute lost by Kopekki was 131 goldsmith and 2,151 silver pieces of numismatic value. Those who wrote you amendments to moving things were being managed by the state to be impoverished. We read from the SRS all the laws of the former Socialist countries on return. In Croatian there is a correction of the injustice of the Yugoslav communist regime, so you know. You have a situation where certain restrictions are introduced. Mr Petrovic, call a cabinet session and read this decision to the entire government, and in particular page 10 of this European Court of Human Rights verdict and conclude that this bill is a suicide move. As a great Christian, I must prevent suicides. I appeal to all, do not commit suicide of the Republic of Serbia. Why suicide? You won't need any enemies, just enough to pass this law. What kind of confusion are you going to make in the Republic of Serbia? All you're gonna do is confirm what I did in the principle debate. Foreigners, members of the occupation forces and criminals will be here. Honorable people, who cry for correction of some injustice, are pushed to the front, because their story is beyond knowing what they are objecting to, especially in the area where the maximum is concerned. When the rules on agrarian maximum were applied, those who were partisans were taken, and who were Chetniks, who were citizens, who were peasants, were just looking at the catastrans. Mr Petrovic, in 1945, it was done, as you Europeans say today, to reset. There were no more obligations to banks by natural persons, nor could banks have realised the mortgages they had on the premises. You've completely forgotten that part. Ah, you're testifying to great justice. I am giving you the opportunity to control what your people in Belgrade did in 2000 and 2001, 3,416 apartments of the City Assembly. You now have something in place that looks like nationalization and confiscation. It is the privatisation of PIN "Ivan Milutinović". You know, some citizens of the Republic of Serbia think that today we need to talk about nationalisation of foreign banks, confiscation of those criminals who ruined this society, and to remind you, a few years ago, you entered a confiscation into the Criminal Code, and by this article was created and the administration that manages the seized property that came from crime. In 2009, you concluded that organized crime exists, and it seems, because of material benefits. Now the real presummation, that by 1941 there was no organised crime, there was no crime in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, was all honey and milk and all covered by the story of correcting injustice. Here you see Article 15 is absolutely inapplicable, he has mental fellers. Why mental fellers? You only lack a few more words, ships and boats, because you signed them the Croatian Law on the return of property to victims of Yugoslav communist terror, as they wrote there, etc. This law is suicide.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61316	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61317	That's enough, I admit, complicatedly written this regulation, but it's not pointless. So, not to enter now into the interpretation of the text, but everything that is written in this 15th article is fully justified and it is a rule of how the property will be returned. So, you're right, at this point there is no public property, until the law on public property comes into force, but as the law in the procedure here in the Assembly, together with this law on restitution, legislators have made decisions in transitional and final provisions that both of these laws, if they are adopted in parliament, will come into effect at the same time. When there's a transformation of the current state property into public property, then everything that's written here makes sense, and I wouldn't burden the MPs too much, and I wouldn't burden the public with it. It will remain a certain property in social property, a certain property in the cooperative property will remain, it will also be subject to restitution, as will the transfer of certain forms, i.e. certain property from state property to the property of local self-government and autonomous province, in one period state property as such, and it will also be subject to return to restitution if other conditions are met, unless, in cases provided for in this first position, when it has passed into the property of the cooperative or, if the social enterprises have gained this burden, it is the subject of privatisation, not restitution. As for movable property, of course it was a dilemma that the immovable property should at all be the subject of restitution or not, so the position to be returned is to be movable property. Of course, what is in the process can be proven to have been the subject of seizing according to different regulations. Therefore, these public registers are not public registers that existed at the time when the property was taken, but public registers that exist today. That's the reasons and the reasons. About these other things, these are, of course, political views, and I don't dispute that you have the point of nationalising foreign banks, but I don't think that's what's going to happen and most of this Parliament isn't sure about that, and I'm sure most of the citizens aren't. I believe that legal certainty is very important and I want to send a message from here that every citizen of this country and every legal person who operates here can be trusted while this government of the Republic of Serbia does not have to worry about its property.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61318	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61319	I fully agree with counterpart Krasic that the definitions in the attitude of 1st member are quite vague and illogical. The idea of our amendments was to fix what could be fixed. We have suggested that the words, "with compensation," be deleted and changed in words, "with a load of legal work as a conscientious sticker". This formulation that has been proposed by our amendment is certainly far more precise than the one mentioned in the text of the bill, since it is not clear exactly what it means "with compensation". Of course, it is important to stress here, as we have also pointed out in the explanation of the amendments to Article 10, that the holder of things must be her life-saving sticker in accordance with the generally accepted principles of legal theory, in order to be exempt from this obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61320	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61321	I am now in a position to continue on what I find inconsistencies in achieving this absolute justice. So, in the second chapter on return of property, where the subject of return is defined by Article 15(3), it is defined that the subject of return are state-owned movable items entered in the public register, as well as other movable things, which, according to the regulations on cultural goods, represent cultural goods and cultural goods of great and exceptional importance, which exist on the day of entry into force of this law. We have proposed, after this attitude, that item 4, which is to say, that the subject of return be movable things, other than the things of heading 3 that exist on the day of entry into force of this law, should there be individually certain things of greater value, such as works of art, stylish furniture, ornaments, valuables, musical instruments or similar items of special importance for the owners. When you limit the return of moving things only to things that are listed in the register, or are cultural goods, we think it's totally unfair to exclude from the right to return and compensation, to take away and other things that are of lasting value, because you have to enable and return things like, for example, artistic images, pianos, weapons, you know what kind of weapon I mean, a certain family heritage and so on, because it's known that in many families, it's the kind of thing that has been taken away and that in this law it should have feelings for things of this kind. If we completely eliminated the one, you say, insignificant or hard-earned fee for paying off securities of value, why at least in this part didn't you predict the possibility of anyone who was able to prove to you that he was looking for a refund of these, especially for them, and otherwise valuable movable assets, predicting the possibility of doing so? I think this amendment should have been adopted, even if you could prove your consistency to the previous member we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61322	Used time from the time of the representative of the parliamentary group 35 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of Section 1, the title above Article 16 and Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Alexic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61323	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this decision of the Law, the owner of the immovable property cannot obtain property or state property, if the one holding the property and acquired it in some way, has increased its value, or increased the size of that facility. In this way, in fact, it violates the principle of Article 8, which is the principle of priority return in the natural form of immovableity, i.e. property. In this way, in fact, the former owner is prevented from using the possibilities given to him by Article 17 paragraph 2 of the Law, since, if he cannot obtain property or state property, he cannot obtain the right of active legitimacy to enter into negotiations with the current user, i.e. the founder of that property, whose former owner he is, nor can he solve the problem of returning in natural form in the future, and then the former owner will be forced to be compensated for the next 15 years, at least absolutely opposed to this Article 8th law. For this reason, I have submitted this amendment, which actually provides for the separation of property and state property by restoring to the former owner property and by taking away the property, which means that this subtracted immovableity can already be defined by Article 42 paragraph 3 of point 2 of this law, where exactly what evidence is required to be submitted for this seized property. So, if his property is returned, he returns that possibility to be able to activate this position of Article 17, so he acquires active legislation to communicate, or to enter a lawsuit to seek state. If he asks the State for the property, which has increased the value, or the facility, in that case he can defend himself and seek opposition to establish his right of co-ownership, or, on the basis of his own investment, to ask the court to rule in that sense by increasing the property, he therefore has certain real rights to that property. So it's the only cellular solution for this Article 16. There is no other cellular solution. I've really been thinking a lot about how it can be applied in practice and, believe me, it's the only way I've ever mentioned it. If this amendment of mine is rejected, in that case we will have a problem with many former owners who simply, therefore, can't get property and state property, but can't even get that right to fight in any way for that property. Believe me, it's a lot better if someone gets their property back in natural form, and I think it's actually declared the principle of Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61324	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61325	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 17 speaks of increasing the facility and has no idea, no definition of the facility, but it stands for an increased object, so if the wall is being built, if it expands, it means an increase. If a barrier is made, then a two bedroom apartment is built, a Spanish wall is built, wallpapers or something, then there's no extension, and then there's obviously no problem at all. However, Article 2 of this article says, and now those who see some chance that there will be a return of property, that there will be compensation, count -- this law is being passed here, their problems and all the troubles have been solved. Dear viewers, it's not like that. Respected citizens of Serbia, only then will certain problems arise, and this is how it is said -- if after the stateship is an increased facility, the owner of the increased work and the former owner will agree to regulate their mutual facilities on the facility in question, and if they fail to do so in agreement then, of course, the court will decide. Then there will be trouble for those who need to resolve their question. Mr. Minister, there's one thing going in here that's not good, one principle is that what happened today is valid, and, of course, everything under the law, tomorrow may not already be valid. And that provision that says that the property acquired by committing the crime will be taken away, it is good, but perhaps at some point someone suggests there, to meet the team, so he says – now it's off-limits, now it's time to return that property, but let's say, after 70 years. There's another interesting question that we couldn't very easily and simply discuss. Perhaps Mr. Radosavljevic knows, there is also talk of expropriation until 1968. Personally, I think the best way to get past those who had expropriated assets in front of them and in 1968, because probably under their pressure, you know well who these people are, under their pressure, their blackmails, you had to put it into the law. Let's agree, in 1945, either one way or another, kidnapped, robbed, I don't know what's not done. What happened in 1968? Wasn't this an organized society? Were no legal principles established? I'm absolutely sure this law won't be applicable. He's a wrinkle anyway. Many amendments the government has submitted, filed by MPs, it is their parliamentary right, no problem is there, MPs who support this government, but only when it is necessary to apply this law will this law be very little benefits and great damage. Who's going to benefit? Those who love power, so with this law try to court some citizens of Serbia, on the one hand. Of course, there will be an agency. The agency will hire a number of people. They're going to have extremely good wages, because they're going to solve these huge problems. They will also benefit from perhaps those whose property was expunged in 1968 or 1967, and everyone else can only have troubles and troubles. Mr. Minister, two billion euros if it were invested in the sector you're now running, do you know what, here's what you'd say, with our valuable farmers and peasants, you'd be able to do? We'd become Switzerland. This is how you limit something, you want it back, you don't want it back. This has nothing to do with it. This is an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61326	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 17. The amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Srdjan Mikovic. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61327	My colleague Natasa Vukkovic and I have submitted the amendment, which we later corrected and we believe that the corrected amendment is going towards protection, both the former owner and those who have invested in increasing a certain facility. I think our amendment may have been a more detailed development of what not only a colleague of Jorgovanka has proposed, but a whole series of SNS MPs. We have here suggested to be in the position of 2nd of this Article 17. The bill shall act as an intervention that, if an increased facility is made to the former owner, the property shall be returned to the part of the immovable property in the area that has been taken from him. This is part of the process of obtaining the active legitimacy of everyone to be able and to address the court, then, and the state returns it on the basis of an agreement or judicial decision, i.e. the owner of an increased act and the former owner may agree to regulate their relations with each other at the facility in question, where an absolute broad possibility is given for those most invited to try first and foremost to resolve their mutual relations to regulate it without addressing the court, and if such an agreement is not reached, their mutual relations will be governed by the competent court. My colleague Vukkovic and I believe that by adopting this amendment there are conditions that absolutely all relations that can happen are regulated. Again, the illustration works, it can happen that there's a huge object on a small facility, and there's no excuse in that sense that this former owner, not to say arsehole, is suddenly the owner of a multi-story. Also, it can't happen to us that someone who had a 500-square-square facility, and in the meantime there are two more squares or one or two rooms, that the former owner can't exercise his rights. That is why we believe that this very amendment fully foresees all possibilities and in the most honest way enables solving all relations between the former owner and the one who increased the facility. Also, the possibility is given, first of all, the agreement, if not, then the court. I'd just like to point out one more thing, I think it's a good idea to mention it here, since article 17. In Article 16, I suggest that in Section 2, we have a negative in a place where no negativity should occur. So, the return obligation is to restore to the former owner the right of property and state to take away property, unless the facility is increased within the meaning of Article 17 of this Act. So it's written the way we say it in the people, and it's not written the way it's supposed to be grammatically. I think that this should be done in the legal-technical order of this text, especially in the light of the meaning of both Article 16 and Article 17. The bill, as well as all of our amendments that we have submitted to both Article 16 and Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61328	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61329	Thank you. It's just as petty as I resent it when you once deny us time, now I'm going to thank you so little that this amendment has entered into consideration, and there's one technical mistake because it's written in new attitude 4, and it needs to be a new attitude 3, so I'm grateful that we're even discussing it. We asked for attitude 3 to resolve the situation when this built-up part is insignificant and when no special unit has been built up, by writing a new position in which it would be said: "If the increase of the facility is insignificant and no special unit has been built up, the former owner becomes the owner and a built-in part of the facility". We also asked that instead of saying "gabarite and volume", which are completely unnecessary precision in some building sense, use the word "object", so I think this intervention that colleagues have done is to some extent satisfying our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61330	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61331	So this is an amendment to the title above Article 18 and Article 18. I ask that this title be deleted above this article as well as article 18. Normally, this is the principled attitude of the SRS, which we are in fact expressing our position, as has been said many times already, that we are in principle against this and this law. Therefore, Article 18 provides for exceptions from return in natural form. Now you're listing a total of 10 exceptions here when no property claim is returned to immovable property. I say, it goes from one to ten, so I don't count it all, it's supposed to be here. However, Mr. Minister, I would still have to say that the government is also showing a certain amount of hypocrisy in this case. I'll only show you on one case related to this member, where you didn't predict anything. So, in addition to the principled reasons the SRS has been talking about all day, I'll tell you one, let it be a formal-legal nature. You did not provide for one exception from one form of fixed property rights, and you also did not foresee that in Article 2 where you list the regulations on which the property was taken away. Did you, Mr. Minister, and at all, have the government heard, for example? for the Law declaring the general property of the country's courts, pastures and forests, land, urban and similar communities, as well as landscapes, or border property municipalities? This was brought by the National Republic of Serbia in 1948, published in "The Official Messenger of the People's Republic of Serbia" under number 1/48, and later something was changed during 1955. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, thousands of acres of forest were taken from peasants by this law. But do you know any peasants? It was taken away from those peasants in the municipalities of Ivanica, Nova Varoš, Priboj, Sjenica, Kraljevo, Prepolje, etc. That exception is not seen in article 18 which is the subject of this law. I'll tell you, gentlemen, that Joseph Broz did not allow Slavonic forests to be taken away and they did not pass that regulation. In addition, he did not allow forests to be taken away on the territory of Slovenia at the time. But these forests were taken away in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the poorest ones at the time, and I would say today to the poorest communities. Why don't you also put this form of seizing right to immovable property in this proposal? Why do all these Brozovska policies continue to be followed, punishing only the poorest, the poorest Serbian peasants? Since you're so good, why don't you make this injustice right? In this article 18, why didn't you see this case coming from an exemption? You don't really care about correcting injustice, not that this government cares about this law, or any other law, which it makes in this assembly, to correct injustice, but to do it for quite another reason. It's normal that we won't support it. It does not occur to us that we support some lobbyists of Germany or others, under whose lobbying you are actually passing this law, and further poverty of Serbian citizens, I am sure, and we in the SRS have been pointing it out all day, will continue to pass even more and implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61332	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61333	I cannot agree to accept Mr. Munjic's amendment, as Mr. Munjic says there should be no exceptions to return in natural form. So, if Mr. Munjic's amendment to Article 18 were adopted, everything would be returned, and even what according to the Constitution and the law is exclusively in public property, natural resources, official buildings and business premises that serve to carry out the laws of the established powers of the state authorities, the authorities of the autonomous province, the authorities of the local self-government unit, the authorities of the local community. The real estates of institutions in the field of health, education, education, culture, science and other institutions, as well as public services established by public property holders, whose return would significantly interfere with the work and functioning of these services. There would also be a return to immovable properties that are an integral part of networks, objects, devices and many things. So everything that's listed in article 18. I am for the return of everything that can be returned, but not for the return of what cannot be returned to the Constitution itself or what is necessary because of the vital state interests and interests of every citizen of the Serbian state. In that sense, I cannot agree to this amendment being adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61334	The word is from the MP Dejan Mirovic, and from the MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61335	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is one of the best amendments because it introduces the principle of justice and shows that this law is deeply unfair. On concrete examples, we'll prove it. If foreign citizens are given the option, i.e. Their descendants, if at all there are, that after 70 years they have the right to restitution, how is it possible that people who are direct heirs to buildings where the state institutions are, and I will give a concrete example here, is Vlajkovic's 10, the lady has been looking for the facility where one of the buildings of the Ministry of Economy has been in place for years. This is precisely the point 2 that is denied and we are coming to a kind of injustice that shows why we are in general against this member and against this law as a whole. So these are arguments that are not coming from us, but from citizens, which we fully support and which say it is an injustice and a denial of Mr Radosavljevic, who said that injustices will be corrected, that no new ones will be made and that fiscal stability in the Republic of Serbia will be maintained. All this is not true because, as stated in previous amendments, new borrowings will take place in the Republic of Serbia, property will not be returned to people like Julia Glisic-Garsanin, who owns several buildings in Knez Mihailovo, but will return under certain conditions that are completely opaque. We heard yesterday from Mr. Djelic that some international sales of these bonds will be organised in 2015. You'll admit, it's a distant future and who knows what's gonna happen by then. So it's about one of our principles that shows that this law is deeply unfair and that's why we're completely against Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61336	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61337	Mr. Mikulic, you are sitting here in continuity to discuss amendments to this property return law, but you get the impression that you occasionally enter an O.R. If you follow what the MPs of the SRS say, then you will simply conclude that we suggest that members of this law be deleted. The best thing to do is to correct the injustice against what you're planning to do right now, unless there's a law like this. We do not claim that in some periods there may be no individual injustice to some people, but surely this would be much more dangerous if it were approached selectively. I told you, expropriation until 1968. There is no need for you to occasionally comment on which amendments should not be accepted, because others will get the impression, and not so...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61338	People's MP, please, agenda theme. Do not address other MPs directly. Everyone has the right to speak of their position as long as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The MP who has an objection to the adoption of an amendment has the right to receive a word and to explain it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to take the right to silence other people's messengers without speaking about the subject of the agenda. If you'd like to continue, go ahead. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61339	Article 18 provides for exemptions from return in natural form. We suggest we delete 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. I'll give an explanation for the ones I appreciate being the most important. Point 2) says: "Immobilities that are exclusively in public property by law", point 3) "immobilities that serve to carry out the activities of institutions in the field of health, education and education, culture, science or other institutions as public services established by public property holders, whose return would be a significant distraction of the work and functioning of these services". It's to some extent, no matter how much we've submitted the amendment to delete these points, understandably, by looking at some public interest, but it was meant to accept the substitution. However, at point 7) "the facilities owned by the Republic of Serbia are intended for the accommodation of foreign diplomatic and consular representations, military and commercial representations and representatives of diplomatic and consular representations", we believe that this should be deleted for the reason that diplomatic and consular representations rent space from both state and private owners, on market conditions, so there is no reason why such property should not be returned to the old owner who can take over commitments from a contract signed by diplomatic and consular representation with the state, and we know that our numerous diplomatic and consular representations have also been concluded, even an affair as to whether the leases have been concluded under larger or smaller conditions in relation to market conditions, but that we have concluded many contracts for the functioning of our diplomatic-consumptions with private representatives. In point 8), "a court complex on Dedinj whose status is governed by a special law, as well as other immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance in the state property", we believe that this point should be deleted for the reason that the status of cultural goods is binding and the owner to the proper handling of such property and does not condition that such facilities and complexes be in state property. As for the castle complex on Dedinj, it must be borne in mind that it is the private property of the Karadjordjevic family. It must also be kept in mind that in March 2001, an order was lifted from 1947, removing all the obstacles to the return of their private property to Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic and members of his family. If this right is denied to them by this law, it is obvious that, apart from the injustice that has been done to the family of Karadjordjevic, we are fortunate as a state, unlike many European countries that have had their own dynasty, that we have had two of our own, domestic dynastys that have done a lot for Serbia and the Serbian people – Karadjordjevic and Obrenovica and we think that the time, if we, and we have done a huge injustice to Karadjordjevic, we do not make this law a new injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61340	It was used three minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61341	The DSS supports Zika Gojkovic and SPO's amendment. Our amendment is something different, it is narrower than this amendment. Why? Because we insisted on a replacement as a return mode. Seeing as there's no intention of going that way here, then it's a rational solution to support this amendment. It narrows down exceptions to return in nature, and the law provides for numerous exceptions to return to nature. If there was a replacement as a return mode, then many of these items on returns exemptions in nature would have its rational meaning, especially when it comes to the work of state authorities, buildings that are in function of their work, etc. If there is no substitute, if we go so hard to narrow down the right to return to nature, then this amendment by Žika Gojkovic makes absolutely sense. I don't see why, for example, diplomatic and consular representations would be protected in that sense. Why would another state that has its diplomatic and consular representation, why would they provide us with rooms? Let me mention someone from the Foreign Ministry in which Serbia has a diplomatic-consular representation owned by that state, and we use it for free or for some minimum fee. Where's that? Let's do it or we'll establish the conditions of reciprocity, so if some state pays to stay with our diplomatic representatives, then we'll pay that state to stay here, and then we'll make an exception to the return. Then write this article right. What does it mean to exclude property owned by Serbia for the accommodation of foreign diplomatic and consular offices, military and commercial representations? It's a shame. Why would they do that without then returning someone who has the right to that facility, that object in nature, because they're sitting there. Is that how someone treats us abroad? Answer me. Give us a comparative analysis, give us a reciprocity analysis, and let's see how things are going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61342	Two minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61343	Here we have already seen that this article 18 really foresees too many exceptions from the return of property that will further burden the application of this law. As the law will apply, as far as its application is possible, we will see it only in the future, how much problems it will bring in Serbia, this is what we have been talking about all day. How many amendments will be adopted, we'll see about that, but anyway, this is one of those members that's very sensitive. We also suggested something rope compared to the SPO whose amendment I also believe is indeed comprehensively adopted, but I will explain our amendment. Therefore, we considered the exceptions to the return of the official building and the business premises that serve to carry out the law established by the competent authorities and the authorities of the AP and the bodies of the units of local self-government. So we went only to have MZ isolated from this, so point 2) and the proposed amendment foresees the return of the official building and business premises that serve to carry out the business bodies of the MZ. So we felt that this was the most painless and that yet another number of damaged citizens could naturally be compensated. So we felt that this amendment under this article would introduce additional problems in the application of the law, and this amendment would be very appropriate to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61344	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61345	I think the solution proposed by the Progressive Group of Serbia is indeed one of the most comprehensive solutions to this kind of exceptions to return in natural form. We have suggested that where it is necessary to use other people's buildings that are now subject to return, that compensation be provided within a development period of three to five years, for the owners of buildings that are really necessary to those you have excluded in paragraphs 2, 3, 5 and 6 and in particular, I will say for the 7th. So, we predicted that at the end of the text in each of these attitudes where the immovableities that serve to do business and work, institutions in the field of health, education, education, culture, etc. make a fee, i.e. a commitment to the founder of a company or a company of a solidarity payment of compensation in cash, within five years of the date of eligibility of the solution to return to immovableity. You have to admit it's really not a burdensome thing. Also, for points 5 and 6 for users who are where technological sustainability and functionality would be violated in carrying out the activity of a particular privatisation entity, it is also necessary to pay compensation in the amount determined in accordance with this law. However, when it comes to the use of the 7th immovableity in the possession of the Republic of Serbia for the accommodation of foreign diplomatic and consular representations, which some other colleagues have spoken of, we also provided for a condition that such an facility can be maintained but provided that the Republic or the object user pays compensation in cash within three years of the date of the justice of the solution to return to immovableity. Also, we ask that attitude 8. Where the Dedinje court complex is mentioned as the one whose status is set out in a special law cannot be such an exception and that there should be an expropriation of the words "exempted from returning immovable cultural goods", and I will tell you what our argument is. At that point, then, we find it deeply unfair to deny someone the right to return his house because he built the house so beautifully that the state or someone decided for a while to declare it a cultural good. On the other hand, there are no legal obstacles to this cultural well-being and private property. After all, you have to make a certain rule applicable to everyone and realize that in this kind of exception, there can really be abuse of such a species that in some cases, such as this, natural restitution really seems to be the most just solution. When it comes to diplomatic and consular representations, I believe that the host state has no obligation to provide the premises, but it is an obligation of the state to refer to the representative. We also see it by the large accounts that our state pays for its consular representatives in those other countries, but since we have stated that owners of such facilities can also deprive the Republic within this three-year period, we give the possibility that where Serbia has such a privilege in one of the foreign countries, it can reciprocate itself to apply but not to the burden of the owner, but it can pay that fee. So, I would mention another case, it may not be convenient or useful, but it really isn't right and it seems a little hypocritical, there was recently a sign that one of the EU member states has come up with a solution to the return of the Serbian embassy building, well, you know what the country is, and it requires our embassy to move out of that building. On the other hand, under the pressure of one of those countries, we need one of our citizens to bring into an uninvited, unfair, unfair position by not returning the country to the citizen because of some foreign country, the embassy, the consular presidency. You have to take care of all this and what our old man said, which is for the house you don't even go to church. In this sense, the citizens of Serbia and the need for them to be compensated are first. Which does not mean that we need to compromise the relations of the countries that provide us with assistance, support, etc. But there is no need to pay too much on the burden of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61346	Three minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Đurić and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marija Bulgarčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61347	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that today's greatest interest has been caused by Article 5 and Article 18 of this bill. Namely, my parliamentary group has submitted the amendment as well as all the parliamentary groups to Article 18 of this law and this amendment has not been accepted, and I am sure that Mr Petrovic has read it so that this amendment will surely be accepted. In Article 18 paragraph 1 point 5), we asked that point 5 be deleted in this law, since we felt that this legal solution to return in a natural sense was exempt from the property of companies that are in social property. Mr Petrovic, the current constitution of the RS no longer knows social property, so we felt it would be more comprehensive for this amendment to be adopted. Realistically, many companies that have their legal faces, which are not yet privatized and still exist, mean in social property. The deadlines for privatisation in this country have long passed, we have missed all possible deadlines for the privatisation that has begun and which has not yet been completed. Not all of us have cleared up their own legal relations, and here comes our turn and our restitution. This section 5 of the said article makes a new injustice to those already damaged by the regulations set out in that Article 2 of this Act. The legal solution gives the possibility to directors of non-vativised social enterprises to make a completely biased decision on whether any immovableity will be exempt from return, or whether that immovableity will not be excluded from return in natural form, which is also the subject of this Article 18. If it comes from the fact that natural return of property is most favourable for former owners, it is clear how much their rights are at stake with the proposed legal solution. The LDP parliamentary group has repeatedly said it will support the restitution law and that is what my colleagues have been saying, but this kind of law leads to reasonable doubts in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61348	Forty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP Zoran Ostojić, a minute and 45 seconds at his disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61349	So again about exceptions, and the principle is that priority is natural return. There are many, and not Mr. Lightning 10 as many dots as there are, but 11 last sentences say, "No state-owned enterprises are coming back," but it's not under 11, I guess state-owned property returns. First, it was private, so it was state-run, and then it was social in 1953, and then it became state-owned, and now it's not coming back. Here in Article 4, it is very clear which part of state-owned enterprises, public enterprises should not return, I do not see why it stands "no state-owned property returns", no doubt that this point 5) Article 18 continues to defend social property. I'll talk about the money. Like colleagues, when it comes to embassies, or diplomatic... The representations are right. Look, except for those exceptions where we got some property from some state, and we gave them property like an example of the American Embassy or what I know, other assets are pointless not to return to the owners. The embassies pay the rent to a state-owned company that deals with orientation. We don't pay it back, even though the old owners could charge and take over those contracts. What do we get? We and now, in fact, on the burdens of taxpayers, the compensation of those owners instead of them getting a lease from the embassy, it's totally if you think you're going to save it I think more money will go to compensation than you get a month's rent. Absolutely, I don't think it's a logical solution, because in the end, as in this case, you're not going to unprivitized social enterprises to return it to the owners. What, are you expecting some privatisation income? And there will be more expensive compensation than that income you expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61350	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61351	Yes, these exceptions are still at stake. So it's amazing that if the basic principle of restitution is in natural form, then we're making rigorous exceptions to restitution in natural form, and it's all proving that the motivation of the legislator is to not return anything. That's his motivation. That's what we heard from my predecessors. Let us go to this point 6) of the immovableity intended for the representative needs of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government. We're not gonna get that back. As a member of this House, the National Assembly, I give up any benefits regarding the use or need to use any representative object that would otherwise be subject to return, but now we will not return it, because of this fleet of yours, that there are state authorities, such as the National Assembly, the President of the Republic or the Government use these facilities. While Vojislav Kostunica was Prime Minister, he did not use a single representative facility for his own needs as Prime Minister. I guess we can do that, too, because it's not necessary for the organ to function. Now, watch this, no real estate will be returned that is, it says, for those enterprises that have not yet been privatised, where the privatisation process has not been started, and if it is the property that is necessary for the functioning of these companies. You know why you wrote that? You wrote that because you gave up your replacement. If you hadn't given up on the exchange, and you gave up, because obviously you don't have this mindset, if you hadn't given up on the replacement, you could have solved this problem in a very simple way. It would be calculated how much these assets are worth in non-privatised enterprises, because, you see, you have to say, you have to put a sign of equality on the right, on the return of the enterprises that have been seized and the assets that are owned by a non-privatised enterprise. That's two different things, then. Here's the case that there are companies that have something in their assets that are not privatized, something that should be returned. It's very simple. If you had predicted a replacement, you wouldn't have to return that property, but you could return the shares owned by that company and partially privatise it in this way for the value of the property. That's what you should have done. It's amazing how people don't think of something that's obvious, it's right under their noses, and you don't see it. You know why you can't see? You don't see why, because I accused both yesterday and the interlocks of the same thing, that you concluded this in haste, and that you didn't take care of the basic values that should be protected. That's why in article 18 you have this kind of carambole, because you can't handle it. One provision draws another, so when you make a circular mistake in one place, then by listening to yourself in that mistake, you make new mistakes to fix it in the next members and so we have a member 18. That's why he looks like this. That's why you've put a number of restrictions on natural restitution, which are beyond reason, as well as on non-returning by state-owned enterprises. I'm telling you, the DSS will support any amendment that goes wider and deeper, affecting the abolition of these exceptions than was done in our amendment to Article 18. First of all, we had in mind that our amendment was in some kind of co-existence with the idea of a replacement. As you will not accept the replacement, in the voting day the DSS will vote not only for our amendment, but for every amendment that goes wider and different from the amendments that we have even submitted ourselves. This is really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61352	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61353	This amendment is somehow in the spirit of the amendments that we have submitted, and then it's quite logical that we would be supported by such an amendment, from a simple fact. We've had the privatisation process before the restitution, and it's a huge property that's been taken away in various ways by its original owners, privatized and impossible to recover anymore. We now have assets that are not privatized, and point 6) of attitude 1 largely makes it impossible for that property to return. So here's why, let's say, if it's a mill, it's mostly mills, I've met countless owners who've done projects most often in Germany, generations of modern mills, and then now when we have to give them back us, then this point 5 makes it impossible, because it would violate economic, or technological sustainability in the functioning of a large-scale company whose composition is a mill. If it's a slaughterhouse, then a company next to a slaughterhouse that was taken from some owner and processed meat. This article prevents returning and processing, if processing is one part that has been taken away or slaughterhouses if the slaughterhouse is that part that has been taken away, because one and the other disrupts the functioning of the company. So, I'm not sure that it was the legislator's intention, and I'm not sure that it was the intention not to return this, but I think that this is an obstacle to return, and that's why we have time to intervene with both the correction and that the government intervenes, etc., because really this, as it was left behind, I think that the return will be an exception. Returning to this law should be correct, because this is a law of return, this is not a law of non-return, so in some exceptions we return the property. That's why I think we really need to think about Monday and find some moderation to make the return right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61354	Two minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 19th amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61355	It is the legal position of the tenant of the immovable property which is subject to return. We propose, by amendment, that Section 2, 3, 4 and 5 be deleted for what reason. Paragraph 1 states that the leaser of the property subject to return has the right to use the immovableity to carry out his activity, but no longer than two years, and for agricultural land three years from the implementation of the return decision, with the former owner and the debtor being able to agree differently, which is to some extent understandable for the sake of legal certainty. If we take the return process for a few years, then we have a two-and-three-year term, so it's going to be six or seven years. It was supposed to be here that the provision that the lease right would take two and three years to collect the owner to whom the property was returned. However, in point 2. - exclusively for multi-annual plantings and vineyards which are more than three years old on the date of entry into force of this law, the tenant of agricultural land or a person who has reached a solution on the return of property to the former owner, and no later than one year after the date of entry into force of this law, has concluded a contract on the lease of agricultural land under the right of the lessor, has the right to use agricultural land up to 20 years for multi-annual plantings, i.e. up to 40 years for vineyards. If the return process takes several years and if the owner, besides these close to 70 years, hasn't used that property, another 40 years can't use it because she's on the lease. Well, it's a period of over a hundred years. By then some generation will be extinct again, etc. And we'll do some injustice again. That's why we think it's unwarranted to restrict the right of property as an absolute right in favour of the right to lease as a relative right by the proposed deadline of 20 and 40 years. The basics of property-legal relations, property as an absolute right, acts on everyone and has in it, as the Romans say – the right and the right to rent and to dispose and to do with your own thing whatever you want and then as an absolute right it absorbs and a relative right that is the right to hire and it is much stronger right. That's why we think this 20-40-year-old deadline is absolutely inappropriate. The legislator said in the principle debate that it is not the purpose of this law to bring new injustices, but rather the aim of correcting the wrongs already being done, and therefore I ask once again to think about this in our fear that we will also do more wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61356	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61357	Since I have submitted an amendment to the same member of the law, it is a matter of re-infringing legal certainty and we are confident that the consequence of such a confusing solution applied in this article will be to address the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It's the only way to protect these tenants' rights. You certainly know that there are leases that last 99 years, they are completed for 99 years, so there will be one kind of legal confusion and one kind of legal uncertainty that certainly wasn't the legislator's intention, but it's completely realistic and it will be completely realistic because this member is completely inadmissible, as well as the other members of the law, and therefore we are completely, not only as regards this member, but also as far as all members of this law are concerned, totally against it. We think it's a law that's inapplicable from the first to the last member. What will happen when these tenants from this member address the European Court of Human Rights? Their demands will be further extended because, you know, you have served as Minister of Justice, that the European Court of Human Rights is also completely suppressed by the notions and that there are some 200,000 unsolved cases only this year. So it's about a court that won't be able to solve the problem from this article. Therefore, neither in domestic legislation nor in foreign legislation will the tenants be able to reach their rights. So, one completely unfair solution, a solution that damages the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, legal certainty and shows that the law is inadmissible and that is why we are probably the only party that is entirely against this bill that is inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61358	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61359	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, there's something very interesting about this law. If you see a short member, that member deals with the rights of former owners, and if you see a very long member, he deals with the denial of the rights of former owners. Article 18 is almost a whole page, Article 20, which we're talking about now, half a page. It comes after Article 22, which deals with which the land is not returned – the whole side. That way I can list you to the end of the law. Whoever wrote this law, in the right sense, wrote, we know who the promoter is, believe me, he's got a problem in his head. It's like it's somebody's grandkids or their great-grandsons. As far as our amendment to Article 20 is concerned, it is practically the same as Mr Gojkovic's amendment. We ask that paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. be deleted. I don't want to read what Mr. Chikiriz read before, but the point is that if it's some plantings and vineyards, then the real owner will be able to get into possession, and this one's been leased only after 40 years. After 70 or 65 years of procedure that will now take several years, then another 40 years won't come into possession. Put it immediately in transitional provisions that the law will start to apply in the 22nd century and it's okay and we'll finish the job. Think about what I noticed, whoever wrote this has a problem in his head, a serious problem. There's a problem with the return of property that was kidnapped in 1945, 1946, 1947, whenever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61360	Twenty-five seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61361	Very short, let me add. It's incomprehensible, and this is even worse than the exceptions to being sick in nature. The one we don't give back to in nature will get those lousy 5,000, 6,000, 7,000 euros for a million-dollar asset. That's what you want to do. That's the point of this law. Here, you'll, like, give him back what you owe him that land. You've done business with him, and because someone has years of plantations on that land, so we respect that fact, this guy's gonna suffer on his land for 40 years. Are you out of your mind? This goes in public transmission, direct transmission. Let people hear what you do and what you write.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61362	One minute and 30 seconds used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papauga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of section 2 of the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61363	Name of Section 2. – the return of state-owned building land and the title above Article 22 which the land does not return, I would like to ask for a representative of the government, Mr. Minister Petrovic. I know, Mr. Minister, that you here in the O.R. need the attention and concentration most to monitor what the MPs are exhibiting and to assess where there is justification and in these cases, possibly, accept from the proposed amendment. On this occasion, I would ask you, given that not for the sake of the public, I would like to explain the justification of the amendment submitted before the SRS, but I would like to point out to you as a representative of the Government and the Minister of Government certain indifferences and contradictions in Article 22 on which I submitted the amendment and suggested that it be deleted. Please follow me. Article 22 states – the subject of return within the meaning of this law is building land owned by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or units of local self-government, as well as building land in state, social, or cooperative property. I'll talk about attitude two later. This Article 22 has 27 views, but I will look only at the first and second points of view. The object of the return in terms of the 1st article's position is building land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia that we still do not have. You assume the law on public property has already been passed, and it hasn't. You'll probably adopt it in the next few days, so we'll have public property. Now as we discuss this matter and this bill, we still have no public property, neither the Republic of Serbia nor the AP, cities and municipalities. But it's not just that. You listed – as building land in state, social and cooperative property. Now, according to Article 2. Still the proposal for a law on public property, it is said – public property can be state, province, municipality and city property. We have here, following the possible adoption of the Law on Public Property, that this law stands, in the same position, the existence of public property of the Republic of Serbia and building land in state property, which is the same. It's the same. Public property according to Article 2 of the Public Property Act is state property. However, there is another contradiction. By adopting a law on public property, there is a social and cooperative property that you provided for in Article 22(1). The Public Property Act provides for only three forms of public property – state, province, municipality and construction. So there's no social and cooperative property. It's these double and triple illogicalities and contradictions that I wanted to point out and draw attention to, not because of the amendments, but because of the laws. The justification of my amendment, which I asked to delete this Article 22, I believe is obvious and justified to you. For the sake of time, I will also refer to Section 2, where it is said – no building land is returned, if this law on individual situations and cases is not different. From the finding we see that there is no definition and no need for these words – if this law on certain cases is not different. If it were, it should stand – except in the case of members of this and this law, because it accurately points to some provision of a member of this law where these cases are foreseen. Mr. Minister, I know you're a lawyer by trade, and I know you'll understand me in that legal sense. I ask you about this article of the 22nd and the submission of the amendment - may they be subject to the return of the SRS parliamentary mandates that you kidnapped and gave to the extraparliamentary tycoon party led by today's most corrupt politicians, Gandhi from Bajcetina... (President: National MP, I think that, not once, it has been warned that you cannot mock the procedures and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't believe you're allowed to do that just because you have a political attitude. You're not allowed. Do I have the right to a replica? (President: You have no right to any replica. You are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've been warned of a warning measure. You may proceed, since you have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go. Sign up. You have the time of the parliamentary group and that time is spent searching the details of the law. ) I asked Mr. Minister about both the amendment and the member of the law, and he is also Mr. Minister of Law and I know that he has a valid and valid explanation on my question. (President: Two minutes and 30 seconds, do you want to continue? Here you go. ) I would ask, not only Mr. Minister, now specifically about the amendment, but also Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, who is not there, to respond to these indifferences and contradictions that I have cited and which exist in the position of Article 22, which I have submitted to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61364	Two minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61365	You probably weren't there, because I answered that question, Mr Krasic opened a similar thing. The truth is, at this point, the law on public property did not enter into force, and of course, it cannot enter into force until it is adopted in parliament and subsequently published in the Official Messenger, that we do not have public property as a category and institute in our legal order. This law was written, sent here in procedure, in the same package as the public property law. The assumption is that the legislator and the government, who is the legislator of this law, that if these two laws are passed, they will be in possession at the same time will be published in the Official Messenger. Also, it will come into effect at the same time. Then all this stuff you're talking about will get a perfectly clear legal sense. It's a kind of technique and procedure that must have been resolved here in the congregation, because we're entering into one entirely, and that's the whole truth, a new system regarding public property. I think there is a slowly rounding up property reform in the country, which I hope will be completed when this assembly adopts the law on property and real rights. I hope that's on the agenda soon. When you look at this member from that angle, then it gets meaning, because there is a certain time it takes to redistribute the current state property, whose users are the Republic of Serbia, AP, local self-government, so that they become enrolled in land books as public property holders. In that time there will be state property, because it cannot be done in one day. Also, the law on public property will not in itself lead to the disappearance of social and cooperative property. Social property will disappear when the privatisation process is completed, either in one way or in one way, or when new owners find in the bankruptcy proceedings of enterprises that social property holders find. It's a similar thing with cooperative property. I hope that this assembly will act very quickly in the procedure under the Law on Cooperatives, and this segment of property will also receive an explanation. About the position of the 2nd member, it is obvious that he defines that it is in fact a construction land that is not built and will be subject to return. As far as building land is concerned, it is governed by the Law on Planning and Construction. This law has been decided several times by you here over the last few years, and there is a very complex system of provisions governing the status, regime, change in the construction land regime, and this is why Article 22 is designed in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61366	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61367	For the sake of the public, I'll just say a few things. Of course, this government has not done the wrongs it tries to correct and that we fully understand. We understand fully and for the fact that almost 70 years after the seizure of this property, as far as building land is concerned, it has changed its purpose to the greatest extent. Our cities, our townships, etc. They look completely different, and there's very little building land that can come back. In addition, as the minister said, we need a new law on property-legal relations. Because the Law on Planning and Construction has largely cooked the soup for the return of building land. That's why we suggested that these provisions be deleted, because erasure is due to the absence of substitution. It seems to me that the substitution would largely resolve these questions about building land, and I'm afraid as it is suggested, can it. Look at Belgrade, in 1945 it had several tens of thousands of inhabitants and now it has two million inhabitants. The building land then looked quite different, in many places where there were orans, vineyards, corn, etc. Now they're entire settlements. This is not just the case in Belgrade, it is the case throughout Serbia. Because of all this, in search of these solutions to somehow degrade the owners of the building land, we have proposed this solution, aware that it will have a difficult transition precisely because of the Law on Planning and Construction. It seems to us that a large part of the solution lies right in the substitution. This law didn't go that way. It is true that many countries have had a substitution, some have not, but in only four years of the law's application, Croatia has had six amendments to the law. It is certain that, when this law begins to apply, we will all have full awareness of what obstacles we have in the way of the return of assets that we do not see now, and I believe that if not now when we pass this law and what in some new debate, with some new arguments from all of us, we will find a solution to the return of construction land. The way things are now, very little building land will be returned to the owners, because of privatisation, because of the Law on Planning and Construction, because our cities and settlements look totally different compared to the period when the land was taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61368	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic together submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradovic, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61369	The amendment to Article 22, and Article 22 provides that land is not returned, is very similar to the amendment proposed by the MP from the SPS. We will support that amendment as well. When we look at what can be an exception to a return when it comes to land, then it's clear what law enforcement is. The intensity is, in fact, to return to nature and not be. Because how can a planned document be the basis for not returning the land? The plan document represents only a plan in the perspective of what will be on some land, and it cannot be regulated in any way by other people's property. In the country, the planning documents and public areas are realised by applying the Expropriation Act, so if something is foreseen for the public area, then that land should be returned to the owner, and when it comes to the purpose, then through the Expropriation Act, with a market fee, the state can very easily realise the job. Furthermore, the law stipulates that even unbuilt land, if a location permit has been issued, and the location permit has issued on something that is obviously not the property of who it is, but there is an ex-owner, so it can't be the basis either. Furthermore, the regulation on measures to support the construction industry - and how can the state solve problems in the construction industry through other people's property or other property? What must be the result of the application of this law is, on the one hand, the removal of the injustice that was done in our country 60-70 years ago, but, secondly, that the consequence of the application of this law is that from now on and forever in this country private property will be respected, in every place and at every step. And it can only be if the state is doing its job, not that through other people's property and something that has been taken away from people unfairly to solve the problems of the construction industry, spatial planning or anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61370	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61371	I won't take much time on this article and the SNS amendment, because this is already the subject of a discussion of my predecessors. I need to remind you of the fact that the property of the Serbian state is 40 times more forest land, 20 times more building land and over 40% more agricultural land than in the hands of people or their legal heirs who seek their property. Just that finding and the fact and the promise that you made, a lot of people from the ruling coalition, it sounds really hard, really. That's what I mean most honestly, but that's how it is. There's no policy in what I'm saying. Part of the people in the '50s got some bonds that eventually became worthless. I hope these don't become worthless, given the currency and everything. But this fact and the situation of the percentage of ownership, and land, and agricultural, and construction and forest, says that at least the position of the fourth disputed member of the 22nd could have been deleted, and these are certain planning documents, development documents, master plans. I myself have been involved in some master plans of a particular area and believe me that in that territory it has not moved from paper, and that is really no reason for this position 4 to stand, even if it could be eliminated in the part of the dispute of Article 22. That's why we submitted the amendment. Regardless of the laws discussed by Mr Chikiriz and my predecessors, at least the position of the fourth member of the 22nd, I think he would solve some of the problems in this area and not be burdened by the citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the situation for the citizens of Serbia to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61372	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 23 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of section 3 of Title 3 above Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the People’s Republic of Rade. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61373	Section 3, the return of agricultural land, forest and forest land and the title above Article 24 which returns the land, as well as Article 24, to the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group submitted by Verica Radeta, requires that it be deleted. I will remind all those present and, of course, the public, especially the Minister as a representative of the Government, that on 26 March 1991, the Law on the manner and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land passed on to social property on the basis of confiscation due to unfulfilled obligations under mandatory ransom. The meat communities, the largest number of rural settlements, were returned to the mornings and pastures, and that is part of the largest area you mentioned today, Mr. Minister, within a parked land of about 100, as you said 178 thousand hectares. That is precisely the result of the law that was passed at that time on March 26, 1991. Earlier, no compensation was paid for the seized land. One hundred thousand acres, as we know, were returned in ten years, as far as the law was concerned. This has produced largely devastating economic consequences, where even many agricultural combinations have been destroyed, where the price of agricultural land, where I have already mentioned, has been damaged by many farmland, and many of the heirs have been raised by the disputes that led to the court’s epilogue. It all died of the will and desire of people to deal with agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61374	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Boja Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić together submitted the 25th amendment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61375	Here's another piece of evidence that this restitution has nothing to do with it. The proof of that is also an article 25. He sets additional restrictions on vomiting in nature. This time it refers to land agriculturally. Be careful, the scariest and most spectacular example is this point 2) whose erasure we are looking for. He says the land will not be returned agriculturally if a new plot of land is needed to secure the access route for the land the subject requires to return. This is amazing, you're just looking for a reason not to put something back in nature. You're just looking for some reason. It's complicated for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you're going to need a new plot to be done in order to secure access to the land that's coming back. It's what you're gonna have to do other than that. There's no going back, no restitution, no going back to the past if everything remains unchanged. Some changes must be made. The new preparation must be submitted in case the land, which is the subject of return, is located in the centre of some parcels, within some other parcels which must undergo preparation in order to secure the access route. What's the problem? What's the problem, would you explain? You won't return it now. Now the land, for example, is worth 30,000 euros, and instead of that land, the former owner, or his successors, will receive five euros, according to your art form. 30 and 31. You've turned them around. I can't believe it. Your claim that there is no land falls into the water if today's agency statement is heard, where government representatives are said to have agreed with the representatives of the AP Vojvodina that the excess land in Vojvodina will be transferred to the public property of the AP Vojvodina. Nevertheless, whose public property, duchy or Serbian, is the subject of return. But I can't understand that it's not enough for you to carry out all the restrictions in Article 18, but you're going to go further, and it's pointless restrictions, which you're introducing to Article 25. We asked to delete it, because this is absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61376	It was used 30 seconds from the time of the president of the parliamentary group, and a total of two and 30. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of section 4 of Title 4 above Article 27 and Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61377	Of course, we requested an amendment to erase all of this, and residential buildings and apartments. Although in this article, the second position, probably, Mr Petrovic, is not clear to you what is written, because the basic property has a whole other meaning and when it is put into the context of this sentence, it does not represent anything in the legal and legal and logical sense. I must draw attention to the fact that even until the current regulations allowed the former owners to return to their apartments. There were two regulations at least. Under those regulations, some have managed to restore their living space, and some have not. Mr. Petrovic, I would ask you to answer my question – what should we do with those people who have been in judicial proceedings, according to existing rules, received in court and have been granted the right to return property to fairies, houses, etc., and the state does not want to do so? You don't know about this case? Mrs. Verica Radeta just told you about that hereditary case. I simply do not believe that this succession case can be converted into a representative object of the Republic of Serbia that is not subject to the provisions of this law. If so, then on that basis you can present all the housing facilities to representative objects and put them in that status and finish this job. Now, let me draw your attention, I don't want to correct the illogicalities and lacks of certain provisions of this law, since I specifically said that I am against this law, I just remind you that we have no obligation to bring this. We must not make a great commitment to tax bonds and future generations. It would be much better if the government of the Republic of Serbia withdraws this law, because that signature for the 12 October candidacy, from well-informed sources, and now I'm told you won't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61378	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the Edip Sheriffs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61379	It's about the return of residential buildings and apartments. Article 1 of the proposed law, Article 27 of the former owners, is returned to residential buildings, houses, apartments, garages and other accompanying facilities, taken away by applying the rules laid down in Article 2 of this Act, that is 41 of the regulation, and we suggest that it be added in the follow-up sentence: "and apartments of confiscated origin, which have been bought, are compensated by the substitution from the state-owned Fund of the Republic of Serbia", with an explanation that the dwellings that the state and all levels took away and paid off by ransom must be subject to restitution, or compensated in the natural form of property from the state fund. This is again in the spirit of our proposals to establish a system of substitution, wherever it is not possible to vomit in a natural form.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61380	One minute used by the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61381	I am taking the opportunity to support this amendment by Žika Gojkovic. He is on track for what the Democratic Party of Serbia is proposing. We have not submitted an amendment to this article, but this amendment is very good. When you have not adopted the principle of substitution in general, the replacement of property for property, then go ahead and adopt a partial, at least adopt what Zika Gojkovic proposes. Let the housing fund make up for those apartments purchased in the meantime for former owners and deprive citizens of Serbia, who did not eat or onion in this business, or smell, who have nothing to return to them and who must pay out of their pocket to pay for the commitment that the state has made to those whose property was once taken away by the same state's mistake. Don't let people and their bills, who are full of budgets, be the first to hit this commitment. The first to strike this obligation is the state itself, through its property. I, as a taxpayer, will be much more pleased, trying to think as most of the citizens of this country, to pay for the budget something that needs to be paid back to my people, because I'm solid and reasonable, and if I know I'm not the first person to hit for it, as a citizen of this country, I want to know that the state has exhausted all the possibilities before I have spoken to myself as a taxpayer and I, as a solid citizen and a good countryman of those who are damaged, will gladly give them this money in full for the budget, when I know that all other resources are exhausted. Accept the amendment of Žika Gojkovic unless you want to accept reasonable DSS amendments to insert the principle of substitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61382	This has used the time at your disposal of the president of the parliamentary group, and the parliamentary group has 15 minutes to go. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61383	Let me get this straight. I asked the amendment to delete all of this, but since the second amendment is on the agenda for the same article, which has the exact same content, according to that amendment, I want to explain some things. In my practice, I've worked on these things a long time ago. What's this about, Mr. Petrovic? We have a situation that because someone had property, he suffered a kind of material punishment to take away some of the property, and then we had people who were doing some work from 1941 to 1945, so the best man came as a communist and declared his godfather that he was working with the occupier and had earned, say, 180,000 dinars aproximately for those four years. To pay for that 180,000 dinars, imaginary, as a profit, they say, two houses are taken away, and this house that is left for you, you will be a protected tenant. We have cases like that. Let me get you back to something that's been in the past. We had a change of housing rules from 1986 to 1993, so someone decided to buy out social housing. Then we had a situation that she remained in the Household Relations Act of the Local Self-Government Units to resolve the housing issue of protected residents in the facilities for which the former owner exists. It was the priority of local self-government units. In some municipalities, when the government changed in 1996 and 2000, new municipal managers reached out, resolved the housing issues of these protected tenants, and automatically returned the apartments to former owners. I don't want to talk about names. I've talked about names before. In many municipalities, this type of denationalisation has been completed. Then we had a situation where they made owners or heirs who stayed as protected tenants, reported and bought out, as tenants, the facilities of their parents. Now you've inserted this provision and opened Pandora's box that you can't solve. However you solve it, you have violated the principle of legal certainty, the principle of legality, and I am not talking about justice and justice. So we're on the subject -- whatever you do, you're wrong. When you find yourself on some subject, where you're in a situation for or against, you've always made a mistake, then it's something rhetorical, and you run away from it. I suggest you run from this, from this concept of this return, in this situation. I repeat, you yourself are making a commitment to this country and the people, which does not exist by the rules, as you say to your EU and the Council of Europe. The best solution is to withdraw this law from the procedure, as well as the one on public property. As for that signature from October 12th, there's nothing to it, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61384	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Dragoslav Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61385	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Bill 27, which changes attitude 3 and reads: "Inhabited buildings, houses and apartments in the property of citizens, where there is a law-protected household law, return to their former owner, who has since the date of execution of the return decision become a creditor to a protected tenant, under the conditions laid down by the law governing the apartment". Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, which reads as follows: "Nationalised residential buildings, houses and dwellings in social, or state-owned property, which belonged to the tasks on which there is a law-protected household law, shall not be returned to the property, and nationalised residential buildings, houses and apartments in the social, or state-owned property, which belonged to the employees, on which there is no law-protected household law, shall be returned to the property. Indebted, i.e. The legal follower shall be entitled to compensation, in accordance with the provisions of this law, and the tenant shall be entitled to purchase an apartment under the conditions prescribed by the Housing Act. The protected tenant has an obligation to conclude a buy-in contract within six months of the date of entry into force of this law." Furthermore, points 5, 6 and 7 speak about how to regulate, if this amendment is adopted. Paragraph 5 reads: "If a competent institution refuses to conclude a buy-in contract with a protected tenant or does not conclude a buy-in contract within the time limit set out in Article 27(4), the tenant shall have the right, in order to exercise his right to buy an apartment, to file an action against the competent court." Item 6. "The action shall be brought within 60 days of the date on which the competent authority has submitted an act refusing to conclude an apartment purchase agreement. "Station 7. "The court's rightful decision of the 5th member, which accepted the claim by the tenants for the purchase of the apartment, completely replaces the contract for the purchase of the apartment. Item 8. "If the tenant does not conclude an apartment purchase contract within the time limit laid down in Article 4 of this Article, the apartment shall be returned to its former owner, who, from the date of the execution of the return decision, become a creditor to the protected tenant, under the conditions laid down by the law established by the apartment." The government's reasoning on the refusal of this amendment is indeed hardly acceptable to me. Why? Because residents, or citizens, who live in nationalised dwellings of social or state property, and all of them, there are completely accurate data, 20%, are the only group of citizens who are not allowed to buy nationalised apartments that violate their right of equality, and in particular the right of equality within the meaning of Article 19. The RS Constitution. The tenants in charge have been placed in a position to be discriminated against by the provisions of Article 21. The RS Constitution. The inequality and discrimination are seen in the fact that these tenants are placed in an unequal position compared to other citizens of the Republic of Serbia because they are exempt from the right to buy out social housing in responsibilities and acquire property on apartments assigned to them in the same way as other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the above, Article 58. The RS constitution guarantees the right to property, which belongs to the basic Corps of Human Rights. Thus, these citizens were also denied the right to property, and in practice, a large number of citizens who used apartments in borrowings were allowed to buy under equal conditions of buying-out of social housing in a way that I now have completely bought-out apartments in some of these buildings, partially bought-out apartments in these buildings and individually bought-outs in these buildings, and in the tasks that have restored their work. So then there is the impression that the criterion was the personality of the user of the apartment, not some objective and measurable criterion. Of the 62 buildings in Belgrade that were able to restore their work with the Culture Ministry's regulation, only twenty came that were not bought. I order that tenant rights holders in residential buildings, indemnities, injure and fundamental and human rights as referred to in Article 8. European Conventions, right to home, as well as Article 17. European conventions, ban on abuse of law. In addition to those members of the European Convention, the holders of household law have been violated human rights referred to in Article 1. First Protocol to the European Convention, the right to their enjoyment of the assets in Article 1. Protocol 12 to the European Convention, general prohibition of discrimination. I point out that the republics of the former SFRY who had an identical housing law, through the Law on Restitution or through a housing law before the Law on Restitution adopted solutions that citizens with nationalised housing rights or obtained the purchase of nationalised dwellings, which was the model of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they were assigned adequate apartments, that is the model of Macedonia, which, of course, could be bought out later. This has protected people's rights and at the same time provided for fair compensation for the old owner through fair cash payments or the allocation of replacement apartments or the return of property. Unless the proposed amendment is adopted, the Republic of Serbia will be the only one in the area of the former SFRY whose legal solution discriminates and puts in an unequal position and protected tenants in charge. Mr. Minister, I note that these are mostly average citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who live in 40, 50, 60 and over, pensioners with modest incomes, who have invested through their working lives in apartments and who could remain in an insecure legal position, because the owner of the apartment, i.e. This law will certainly require the introduction of market rents in the coming years for which these people would be forced to leave their apartments. The adoption of a bill proposed by the government, not by the adoption of the amendment, wrongs are being done to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, violates the Constitution of the RS and the European Convention on Human Rights, whose Republic of Serbia is signatories. If an amendment is adopted, it is necessary, of course, to make certain changes to the housing law that would allow the purchase of nationalised dwellings in state or social property. I note, that no legal solution has ever been provided for protected tenants in charge of their problem, nor has a solution been offered unlike protected tenants in their own citizens' dwellings. From all of this out of the blue, I suggest that the amendment be accepted. If that does not happen, I call on fellow MPs and opposition and the ruling majority to vote on this amendment and thus show that they respect the RS Constitution for the equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and government rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61386	Seven minutes and 35 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 28 and Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61387	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 28, and Article 28 is talking about business facilities and business premises that should be returned to former owners. Of course, this is another sign of slalom through obligations, or a law that suggests that in many ways he will not be able to fulfill what he is brought for, he will not be able to or will not. Well, in the first position of this member, it is said – business facilities and business premises return to the former owner in property and state unless they are invested in the capital of the state-owned enterprise to acquire shares, i.e. shares. So when citizens hear the word action, the content of the concept of action in Serbia has a completely different kind of meaning compared to some other countries and in Serbia it always smells like fraud and deception. But we have submitted an amendment to paragraph 2 where it says – business facilities and business premises listed in Article 1, leased any kind or similar relationship, return to the former owner of the property in accordance with this law if they expire two years from the date of implementation of the return decision and to the state if the former owner and the tenant do not agree differently, in the period from the acquisition of property to the possession of the former owner of the lease in a legal relationship with him under the contract he concluded with the previous owners. Given that this is a very sensitive issue that after returning, if such facilities are returned, the former owners will face a large number of problems with the tenants who are already there, neither guilty nor debtors. And it's always a big problem, when they're both right. We have proposed that a new position be added after Article 2 of the amendment, which reads: "If the provisions of the contract under Article 2, this member is harmful to the former owner, he may request that the contractual relationship be established on new fair grounds with the intervention of the court". We felt that this really adoption of this amendment would make this article more useful, better and certainly more just for those whose facilities are being returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61388	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61389	The government is proposing a law on the return of property, and the assembly majority are likely to vote on it. We're against that law, and it's basically the same. Now I'm going to explain to you, Mr. Minister, that even by accepting this amendment, the concept would not have changed anything, to some other members might have, we've already pointed out multiple times and we're in principle against this law, but Article 29 is talking about the return of movable things. He's got three bets. One attitude speaks of a return, and two attitudes speak of a non-return. There's always more of a mess and a toothpick that doesn't allow anything than the ones that point to it. Article 15(3) defines what movable things are in accordance with this law, and it is said that the subject of return are state-owned moving things, entered in the public register. Coli Krasic has already said what is listed in the public register, these are vehicles due to registration and the rakian penalty at the time, and I now believe from that period that there is no one else, although this would have an invaluable value, as well as other moving things that, according to the regulations on cultural goods, represent cultural goods and cultural goods of great and exceptional importance, which exist on the day of the entry of this law. It's considered mobile good. Now, Article 2 of this bill says – there is no return to the movable items of Article 1 which, on the day of entry into force of this law, are an integral part of the collection of museums, galleries, immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance or the goods of related institutions. This is all what we have said in the second part of what mobile things are and do not return the mobile things of Article 1 that have been sold in the privatisation process, in accordance with the law governing privatisation. So, I don't know if you've had a chance to look at the decision to take these moving things away. There are also spoons, forks, pots, pots, all food for human and animal nutrition. It's not counted in decisions, it doesn't say what amount, so this is pointless. If you accept this amendment, nothing will change, you just don't give any false hope to someone that they can and expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61390	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The 29th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the Prost-Serbian group and joint MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61391	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if this member stays this way, and this position 2 is, in general, that institution of returning moving things, it seems to be losing some sense. I completely understand, and the SNS understands your desire to preserve collections of museums and galleries, but also individual paintings, I'm not much of a fan, but as far as I can read in the paper, they can be worth more than some large amount of real estate. If we've defined ourselves to return what's theirs to people, if it's wrongly taken from them, I don't know why they'd be denied. You already have the law defined that you can't pay back anything more than 500 thousand euros, even here that you've come up with some censorship as long as you can go back, and somehow accept it, but other than those things that are within the museum and gallery collection, from vomiting, I think that this institute is completely unthinking both of them and that member of 33, where you say you're going to have some market value to pay back. You really don't know what you're going to bring back to those citizens who have evidence that's damaged. The SNS position is completely clear. If we have taken a principled position that comes back to people, there should be no such huge difference between moving and moving things, and we will insist that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61392	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61393	We have submitted an amendment to delete Section 2. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's a shame this law has more than two members. The first member was supposed to read - we're not going to return anything. Another member – if we have any thoughts of returning something, Article 1. Please be careful what it says here in Section 2. – there is no return to the movable items of item 1 of this article which, on the date of entry into force of this law, are an integral part of the collection of museums, galleries, immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance or other related institutions. Why aren't they coming back? The owner of which it was taken away is his heirs, I guess he'll have to deal with the movable property. They can donate it back to the museum, they can sell it to the museum, they can sell it in accordance with the art law, and so on. Why isn't he coming back? I don't understand. It seems that my earlier remark about someone having a serious problem in his head when he wrote this law, it must have been true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61394	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new chapter 2 and a new member of 29a be added after Article 29. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61395	We propose a new Article 29a where we describe the procedure relating to the substitution, i.e. the replacement provided for in Article 4. I will read to you Article 29a: "If the returner is not able to repay the former owner of the same taken property in natural form, the returner is obliged to compensate the former owner of that property in the form of other relevant assets (replacements). A replacement shall be granted by means of an adjustment of assets of the same type, form and condition in which the property was in possession, which shall not be returned. If the assets cannot be returned in whole or can not be replaced in whole, a partial return, or a partial replacement, may be possible, and for the values of the assets which could neither be recovered nor replaced, and the difference in value shall be paid to the former owner in the market value of that asset. The replacement procedure shall be subject to the rules laid down for the return of assets, in the case of monetary security laid down by this law." The bill promoter is running away from the substitution, and I will repeat what we have already said when we defended the amendment to Article 4 that, according to the understanding of DSS MPs, this way only increases the scope of natural return of property, that it benefits the former owners who have taken away property, but also our state. Then we'll discuss and analyze why you won't accept this, and I understand why you won't. Namely, why do we benefit? First, the largest number of former property seekers is looking for agricultural land. Agricultural land, thank God, there is enough state-owned in Serbia. Agricultural land is agricultural land. Next thing you know, if there's no way he's gonna be able to get anything back, it's right at agricultural land. One good part of the seized agricultural land is now city centers. I set the example that as a child in the center of Dušanovac I played in corn, and now that corn is not in the center of Dušanovac, but there are corn 10 kilometers away. Of course we won't return the land where the five-story was now built, but we can give the man another field. So if it's about taken-off apartments that can't come back because they've been resold a million times, the last owner pays full price, so I can't come back, why can't the state build a certain number of apartments? It's much cheaper than getting his money back. If the apartment is worth 100,000 euros, the state can build the same apartment for 25,000 euros, while increasing housing, etc., employs people, so it solves its other state problems. That would be totally worth it. Instead, what are you offering? You're offering a cobajagi natural replacement, but by discussing the last fifteen members, more or less, we've been discussing exceptions all the time, what can't be returned, so there's a list of things that can't be returned and under which conditions can't be returned enormous. In other words, your goal is to return as little property as possible in natural form, and that as many of these assets as possible to pay the damages so-called. That will be said in the next article, so Mr Aligrudic will talk about it a little more. Why are you doing this? Because you said -- our ceiling is two billion euros, so now you're looking for whatever you want and whatever you want, we're going to pay two billion euros. Do you know what two billion euros is at 100,000 demands? This is an average of 20,000 euros per head, and we among those looking for our property have people looking for 10, 15 apartments, houses, etc. You will make them in proportion, and you will pay them between 20,000 and 25,000 and you will say, "Here you are now calmed down." Do you really think people will think they're calm? It's not a law that's offered well-intentioned. He won't solve the problem. The law is bad, Mr. Petrovic, and hypocritical. You know, either one of the first responsible authorities to be made in this country and this law, as well as the next law we're going to discuss later, will have to dump it in the trash and write a new one, and so far that the number of 200,000 pending cases in Strasbourg is likely to increase by 100,000 new ones from Serbia alone, which will be a very good agenda for our European objectives and European integration and a very good recommendation. In other words, a new robbery has already been robbed and this is the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61396	It was used four minutes and 24 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61397	I'm not going to enter this kind of controversy that's been led here for the past few days, because you've discussed all these things in the Law in the debate in principle and, as I said, the different views on this thing are natural and it would be completely beyond any expectations that there is, because this is a law that is, in its essence, political and shows the ideological position of everyone and to me it's totally clear and understandable and I have no objections to it. What I don't think is right is to present qualifications that I don't think stand. The government was neither malicious nor incarcerated when it laid down a proposal for this law. I believe that numerical arguments are presented here about the budget as obvious as they look at the country's financial opportunities at the moment, it is defined as an indicative amount of money that from one fund should serve as compensation for all those cases for which it is not physically possible to make a return. It is controversial when on the one hand it is claimed that a little money will be returned, so different solutions are proposed for apartments, to build new apartments instead of existing apartments. The state has as much money as you all know it has because each of you participates here in making a budget decision every year. Both past and past and this year you will participate in this debate and decide. It would be good for each of us here and for every citizen of this country if there were multiple amounts available in the budget but not. With respect to all remarks, what I'm saying is that the people who took part in making this law were completely safe with full commitment to work tried to find the solution that is possible at this point, the solution that needs to be found to answer the question of how to remove the injustice that was done many decades ago and that the removal of that injustice does not endanger the future of the country. Of course, then it is natural that there is a point that this law should not be passed at all because it threatens the future and the views that say that little is what will be returned, because it is not an end to injustice. Somewhere when these general views are placed on one side and on the other, this law goes somewhere in the middle, but with full right you represent valuable positions and those valuable positions from the point of view, especially when you are not responsible for executive power, they can also express wishes. The government is responsible for making things real. Whether the law will have difficulties in applying and how these difficulties will be resolved, we will see when it comes to the agenda and when those in charge apply it, but everyone who has done this bill has been absolutely well-intentioned and we have a desire to bring the most fair and sustainable solution based on the facts and possible insight. (Zoran Shami, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61398	MP Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61399	Mr. Minister, I know you're a bright man, there was no contradiction in what I was talking about. The DSS doesn't say to put you in a 100 billion-euro return fund. On the contrary, the DSS says to put in less, but to make sure that the conditions return to nature as much as possible, so that the fact that we can't return everything because someone bought apartments that had been nationalized at the time, let's make sure we get the apartments back. It is not a problem to build five - ten thousand apartments in the country. Secondly, you're talking about the future in the context that this law is going to cost us. I think that in the future this law can also make us money, and I mean it most seriously, because if we are able to convince the whole world that in Serbia, private property is uncut, and that no lunatic will show up tomorrow to repossess other people's property, if we convince a serious world, then someone might start investing serious money in this country. If we pass a law like this, I assure you, none of those who have money in the white world are naive, everyone knows how to read. It will become clear to all of us that this is about former owners, I keep talking about correcting injustice, but it's not just about correcting injustice, it's about seeing that there's nothing right here but making new injustices. You will return 20,000 euros to a man who has an asset worth 500,000 euros, and who has five million euros, you will return 30 euros to him. What did we give him back? Is that denationalisation? No, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61400	Two minutes and 15 seconds were used by the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61401	Thank you very much. It seems to me that a lot of free numbers here are interpreted, whether something that's a few million or not, goes into a few dozen or not, but I'm not going into it either. I think it's important this thing that you said about whether the state trusts or does not trust. It is important for the state to have the trust of its citizens above all, but it is also valuable to have confidence in different foreign points, because then you get the answer to the question whether there is a willingness to invest money, whether there is a willingness to open new jobs, and there I share your care fully. What I can and have the pleasure of sharing with you, and we could all see yesterday, that although this is a bill in the Assembly, I will repeat once again that it was done in the best version, that it did the right and sustainable thing. All the foreign representatives here are, as far as I think, well directed to what is happening in the Assembly and these bill proposals and because different restitution networks are contacting foreign representatives, etc. Two days ago, I think one happened for this country's financial history, a very good thing. For the first time, the state came out with its bonds on the international financial market and twice as much demand was for the bonds of the Republic of Serbia than was offered. So a billion dollar bond was sold. Some neighbouring countries that have a much larger gross social product than we do could not at this time dream of having the same trust of international financial investors as Serbia. So, we just have one thing that can open one optimistic note and in this discussion of ours. At this point, the Republic of Serbia, given all the troubles the whole world is in, and of course we do, has a very high level of trust from international financial institutions. I think it's a good thing that this law, and from that point of view, is no big deal about our positions like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61402	National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61403	Very briefly, I'll try as short as possible, because of myself. Why the natural restitution? Why did this question arise, and why did you ministers come into a position to defend your position again after a long time? Because we stabbed the right place. It's not the point that we, as taxpayers, pay the sins of the state from 1945, 1946 and other years, that's not the point. That's not what the citizens want, survey and ask them. But no matter what we don't want, there's something we have to accept, that we need to do. In the final connotation, taxpayers will have to pay for something. Our message with this amendment is that they pay, not as the first position in a front, but as the third position, as the last one on impact. Let's return to nature everything that can be returned, so when we can't, then give in money the compensation, that is, in bonds for the measure required by market value, without a two-billion limit. We didn't tell you to increase that value. We didn't say that. We said, "Give every reasonable action." If this amendment is not sufficient, continue progressively. Say that a replacement can be executed by replacing the right, which can be equivalently shown in money. Let's do that, too. Let's do something to get the cargo off of us, not load the load on our backs. Our proposal went that way, it's interesting that you don't understand. We don't want to accuse you of malice. Don't do that. We're saying the law is hypocritical, someone had some intention. We're not stupid either, that we think that every single member of the government or you personally, that you have any evil intentions, but someone had some intention. I said I was in the debate to get the guy out of the way, because he's got pressure. Even then, I said it was the main motive. Why? Because that insinuation opens up as natural, when we have a text like this in front of us. I have heard and I have reliable news that the government has withdrawn the law on churches and religious communities on the return of property. We also got the paper... (Chairman: People's Parliament, we're about to share a notice. ) I suppose you will also withdraw this to the same consultations, because if the one withdraws, and the churches and religious communities have had objections to the basic text of the law, to the general text of the law for the reasons that concern them, you will probably withdraw this one by the end of the day to deprive us of this misery and this sea that we suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61404	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61405	On this previous amendment, we must make our point. That's where I'd relate to what the minister said. We need to give full information to our citizens and say that this billion dollars is under interest of over 7%. You'll admit it's a big interest, even a loan shark. Therefore, we are also in connection with this member and member of the 30th that comes after this, we are against borrowing the country because of this law. It's a huge sum of two billion euros. You also know from the Ministry of Finance what our GDP is and how big is the figure of two billion euros. That is why I do not understand how Mr Radosavljevic of the Ministry of Finance, in the framework of a public debate on this law, can argue that this law and this two-billion-euro debt will lead to the fiscal instability of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry, I don't understand. It can only happen the other way around, and it can happen that over a year, two of them have increased to make this unrealistic, inappropriate and populist law based on a huge number of two billion euros, which is actually borrowing, manage to be realised. It is something that must be said specifically to our citizens, because it cannot be said that this law and the debt of two billion euros will lead to fiscal stability. I think that's one complete nonsense, least of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61406	A minute and 30 seconds have been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of Title 3 above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61407	Mr. Minister has just looked in part at what will be the subject of the next amendments. This is about compensation. I asked that the word, after chapter 3: "reimbursement" be deleted, as well as that the title above article 30 is deleted – form and total amount of compensation and that Article 30 itself be deleted. I will read for the public what this Article 30, whose erasure I asked for – damages in the form of state bonds of the Republic of Serbia and in money to pay compensation. The total amount of compensation referred to in Article 1(1) shall not jeopardise macroeconomic stability and economic growth of the RS, and shall be determined for these purposes by the amount of two billion euros, increased by the sum of the corresponding interest, for all beneficiaries of the compensation calculated at an interest rate of 2% per year for the period from 1 January 2015 to the deadlines set by this law. To this point, I'm asking that all of this I've read is deleted. I would like to ask you, as a lawyer, whether you are irritated by what is provided for in Article 2(2) of the proposed member, which is that the Government defines the amount of two million euros? I think it's clear to you and everyone that this is a legal norm. I'm sure it used to stand, it should stand -- two million euros in dinar equivalent per day, that etc. Which is why the government decided to do this, I don't understand. I'll remind you, perhaps you haven't heard about this topic I'm talking about, that Minister Djelic told us a few days ago that he or she predicts that the currency will be a stable currency, or that there will be a currency in Serbia for the next 20 to 25 years. It's standing here -- two billion euros. These two things are first in college, and secondly, I find it inappropriate to hold two billion euros. As for the forms of compensation, that's where you predict money and government bonds, right? However, these two billion euros with a corresponding interest, as you predicted in the position of the 2nd member, whose erasure I asked for, the government believes it must not or will not endanger the macroeconomic stability of the state. I'll look back on what you just said. You think that perhaps some compromise with this amount, with this figure, has been found in the end, a compromise that probably does not satisfy all those who will submit, and also this compromise relates to this macroeconomic stability. However, we have not heard from Mr Djelic nor today where these economic indicators are in favour of this claim, where economic indicators that at the moment at which the state of Serbia is located can argue that two million euros will not disrupt the country's macroeconomic stability. I think the macroeconomic stability of the state can at this point or at some future moment, especially since this crisis is deepening, I would say, and the real effects of this crisis are yet to be expected, that in fact there will be a very great threat to the macroeconomic stability of the Serbian state. I even believe that if the state of Serbia, if these trends continue, especially if the unfeeling borrowings that are previous, and especially this government has been making in recent years, will contribute in many ways, it will contribute to the macro-economic stability of the Serbian state as much as possible. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know exactly what these two billion euros would mean for our agriculture and our peasants in some future period. That's why I'm asking you, or I'm saying, I guess you know what this would mean for our weakened and our agriculture that's really on the verge of disaster, on the verge of disaster, we all have to admit it, and when it comes out of the crisis, when our peasant is strengthened by possibly these two billion, besides those you predict every year for our village, then there's Serbia strong for us. It's an old rule, I'm sure you agree with me, that when a strong peasant is strong and the state of Serbia is strong. You know that only Broz meant the opposite. I hope this government doesn't think so. So with what you've predicted, and with this sum of two billion euros, I'm sure there will be further asphyxiation between the state, the state institutions and the citizens themselves even more, so whoever endures and as long as he endures, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61408	Five minutes was used by the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61409	It's a matter of macroeconomic stability. I believe that is what Vice President Djelic spoke of here in the previous days and in the debate that it is a matter that is well searched. In fact, you know that at this point, we have a similar obligation as the state to make peace with the citizens. The commitment is much greater by its size than the amount of money that is planned and what you are talking about here, for the restitution of about two billion euros. It's the return of old foreign savings. The Republic of Serbia will return 4.2 billion euros in 16 years to the citizens. This is a commitment that the state did not settle for the citizens, i.e. it guaranteed for harmful roles which at one point could not be recovered, could not be returned by banks that were due on the basis of deposits to do so, which is more than twice the amount of money. About 220m euros annually on average, okay, that's a similar amount. The budget burden will be less or more the same from the return on restitution-based compensation, as it is now based on old foreign savings. It is our expectation that GDP will grow and that in the years to come we will also have higher budget revenues, and therefore the burden will be less than it is now. They're these macroeconomic indicators. As far as the way that money is defined is defined, it is defined as well by the law governing the return of old foreign currency savings. It's not our first time. It's a legal-technical measure, and no matter what, I agree with you, we're counting on our domestic currency, at least until we become part of the Eurozone. This is one of the ways they've been introduced into our legal-technical vocabulary, and that's why it's standing here. To be more specific, what I just said. It is not these billions of euros that the state has put into its turnover here and which were received on behalf of the bonds two or three days ago, the money that has been taken to service these things, once again I will say that this is a sign of the very serious trust of those who watch the risks most and when large foreign investors have decided to place a billion euros in Serbia, it is a very good sign that those who are ready or now think about whether to build factories in Serbia, whether to invest in agriculture in Serbia, will make it much easier to make their decision when they have seen that the largest financial banks and institutions have done so. So that's the good news. I won't take any more time. I don't think this year in agriculture has been bad and we've taken good steps. We expect 2012 to be even better, and some of the measures that should lead to this will be discussed when it is here on the agenda. I want to share optimism with you, and I think we have good solutions, and we're gonna take good steps on agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61410	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for two minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61411	It is true, Mr. Minister, that this country is returning a lot of things. But you may have dropped or not have said, this country is returning huge loans, huge amounts of credit, a lot of unfavourable ones, that this and some other governments before this were in debt. I'll just remind you that even one loan that this assembly has ratified this year is only coming back in 2015, it's starting to come back. That's what our children and grandchildren will be returning. Next, give us the indicators, Mr. Minister, what was the state's duty at the time, which you're talking about, about the old foreign savings, and what is it now? Did you know that the government's debt is now over 23 billion euros? Furthermore, if you believe that the dinar will be a means of payment until the EU joins, then I fear for the fate of the dinar. I think the dollar will be at least another hundred years of currency in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61412	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used, and that's all that's left. The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61413	The numbers can be very picturesque and I think we're doing a great debate this way. At this time, when a situation was created in which banks were no longer able to restore foreign currency roles to citizens, then the state laid down a new law, and now we all return it together to Serbian citizens, the country's debt was 133% of gross social product. Now the country's debt is 42% of gross social product. When you look at, say, the responsibility of some of the very serious EU countries relative to the gross social product, Serbia stands far better. So, things with the economy are priority and job creation, new investments, an increase in gross social product and a reduction, of course, in responsibilities are the main objective of economic policy, but numbers are inexorable. They are picturesque and would not force foreign financial institutions to invest a billion euros in Serbia, that they do not fully trust that the state will be able to repay that money, which means that this level of debt will be lower, that fiscal revenues will be higher, and that is not possible if good things do not happen in the economy and in agriculture, unless profits are increased. Strangers believe in us very much, so there's no reason why we don't believe in ourselves more than those abroad believe in us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61414	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Rade Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61415	In Article 30, you determine the total amount of compensation. This is where we now come to the point why we are asking to delete the position of the 2nd member, because attitude 1 says - compensation is done in the form of the state bonds of the Republic of Serbia and in the money to pay compensation. That first attitude is fine, because whatever that damage is realized, it's obviously a mechanism through which it should be done. However, in the second position that you have given here, it contains all the upside-down logic of the bill. I didn't say that there's no insinuation again, that there's your evil intentions, but at least there's thoughtlessness, and that someone's upside-down intention exists, not determining whose intention is concrete, exists. Here's the thing. If you, by a series of provisions of this bill, effectively exclude the possibility of restitution in nature, the restoration in nature is declared as the primary restitution. But if you are a series of measures, which are foreseen by the draft of this law, rule out, we come up with what? To cash compensation. And if you limit the cash compensation, for the reasons set out in Article 2, paragraph 2, which says that the total amount must not endanger macroeconomic stability and economic growth of the Republic of Serbia, so you come up with two billion euros, which are called – the purpose of the total can be given, then there is nothing from this law. That's what we've been saying all along, that this is a dead letter on paper, from beginning to end. Now, if you're wondering what we are to limit to two billion, that's not the point, don't get it wrong. We don't think you're supposed to single out ten billion now to pay back. That's the money Serbia's taxpayers are supposed to give, so we can't even be there for that. The point is something else. I repeat, if I as a taxpayer, you, anyone, as a taxpayer of this state, should give money out of my pocket, filling the budget for the purpose of repaying the debt, which the state has according to a certain category of person, and I guess it is time for the state to try and have its representatives elected to be as small as possible, so we do not dispute the obligation that the state has to these persons. Even, quite the opposite, we point out first. But it is equal to our obligation to defend the interest of non-separated citizens of this accident that has hit those people. They are obliged as citizens to be solid, we are all obliged to be solid to each other, and they are obliged through this solidarity and to pay for it. And I owe it to me, even though it's nothing to me, and not to my ancestors, taken away, there's nothing to come back to me, but I owe it to you. But I also want to understand that I understand from this home, from this congregation, even though there is no direct transmission, I will be in small hours, people will look at it, I want to understand that the money I will give aside is the last ultimate measure to solve the problem, not the first. I want it not to be the first measure, that I be the first to strike. That's what I've been telling you all afternoon. That's why we're looking for a clean slate 2 because we want it to be compatible with the idea of substitution. It can even go wider, through the establishment of rights, not just the same kind of object that returns, the same state, etc. They can also be rights, rights that can be equally expressed in money and there's salvation. Very simple. The state fulfils its obligation. For a part he can't meet that way there'll be cash compensation. It will not be limited, but through other mechanisms, through delays of the moment of application, through deadlines, through stages, it will be tempered. Then when people give their money out of their pocket, out of solidarity for the needs of those who are damaged by the state, then they'll know what they're giving, and then they'll explain it to them. Not to antagonise society and various social classes on this matter. That's why this was quick, shorty, not to say maliciously, but recklessly and with bad effects. That is why it is necessary to delete the position of the 2nd member, and it is important that if the government has already had the strength to withdraw the law on churches and religious communities, for consultation on the work done, you do the same thing with the general law, which has nothing to do with the exact same matter. Don't bother us to work till the small hours of the night, if this can be withdrawn, too, this bill and it can be arranged. Here, we are at your disposal, without the slightest false placement in this story, ready as a group to participate, if necessary, and in special consultations, if you want these consultations, to clear up certain controversial matters and to come out this assembly with one harmonised text of the law in 15 or 20 days. It's short notice, but it's physically possible. Just don't do what you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61416	It's been used for three minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61417	I won't answer for the word anymore, since the other amendments are technical character and I think our attitude and good intentions are clear. I didn't want to be a harsh critic of the government's proposal today, because of the simple fact that this is the first government that is trying to correct a major historical injustice that it hasn't done, in the difficult economic situation in which this country is. For those facts, we have a lot of understanding. We also have a lot of understanding that it's a very difficult job to pay back someone's rights, not to endanger many already acquired rights. That's not the problem this country is facing, that's the problem all the countries that have passed the restitution law have faced. Croatia has changed six or seven times the law on restitution. Poland, an EU member, has not yet passed a restitution law. Slovenians found some good models and returned almost 95% of the property seized. We've been through a subtle restitution, where this member is based, and we wanted to, at the same time, seem to be doing something good for both the state and the people who took away the property. It's not our invention. This is something that many countries have done and that has produced good results. I'll make a comparison. Tito and Willy Brant have made some secret war damage collection agreement. German courts and German laws were different in terms of the country to the country, but a Jewish woman, who was in Auschwitz for four years and became disabled, was granted the right to compensation of only 16,000. This is in relation to the suffering she suffered for four years in Auschwitz, the amount of compensation that our courts impose on some unfounded freedoms that they spend in prison for several months, without exposure to torture of forced labour, etc. This desire to achieve full compensation damage, full satisfaction and material and immaterial, etc., always present in those who are damaged and it is completely rhyming and it is completely legitimate. Since I don't belong to that group of persons who have personally taken away property, to me or to any of my family, we are from the SPO, since this is the foundation of our programme tried, irritated by the 1.001 process of Titus's communists to put ourselves in the position of these people in that time and through everything they've been through in the last few decades. That's why our performances were like this, for the best of all, I underline once again, all our discussions and in all future laws. With Mr. Dusan Petrovic, I have crossed half of Serbia, we have promised this to the citizens a long time ago, this is indeed a plus, and I think for you personally and for this government that has gone under these difficult circumstances in this process, but it seems to me that there is enough time to think about the subtle restitution that we will insist on, the convictions that we are working in the best faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61418	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Goldilocks. The amendment to Article 30, which we have submitted, refers to the position of 2nd of this same member who we felt should be amended in that part where the state, which holds itself, claims that it is very serious in its intention to defile citizens through this law, states in that article something that leaves a small door that can not be fulfilled. So far we've heard a lot of members and explanations about what can't, how can't, why can't anything and under what conditions won't come back. Here you have one formulation that we did not agree with, we do not dispute the figure, we do not dispute the member, but says: "The total amount of compensation from Article 1 of this article must not jeopardise macroeconomic stability and economic growth of the Republic of Serbia. "First, such a formulation is not put into law, the law puts what will be done, and what will happen in law enforcement is the responsibility of the one, in this case it is the state, who is the citizens who are to be compensated by this law, in that situation. To translate into perhaps a more understandable language, as we've seen it, it would be like traffic, that I, as an unconscious driver, break up a car and then I can't pay compensation, because it's jeopardizing my economic standard. I'm obliged to do that, mandatory. It can't be an excuse. So that's the wording that shouldn't have stood in this article, and with the other words in Article 30, we generally agree, although we think it's another one of those evidence that this law will not be implemented. Trying to get to this law is commendable. However, the withdrawal of the Rehabilitation Law and the law on the return of property to churches, I am afraid this law also raises questions. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 31 and Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Rade Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61420	Mrs. Komic, article 31 sets out the way in which the compensation is determined. First of all, we propose our amendment that it be a market fee, because if it were to remain such a member of the law, it would take away all those whose property will be returned to nature and those who will not be in a position, not their own fault, on the one hand, their property has been taken away and, on the other hand, there is no possibility of returning to them in nature but will receive compensation far below the market value. By doing so, the law, which first and foremost seeks to eliminate injustice, establishes a new injustice, for those who will receive property in nature, will receive it in full value, and those who cannot, since you do not create an opportunity to obtain a substitute for property, will receive compensation. The total amount of compensation is determined to be 2 billion euros. Why two billion, why not a billion, three or two and a half? Obviously it's a matter of free judgment. Thirdly, there are numerous exceptions to people who can get property under this law, whose property will be returned and, on the other hand, the exceptions when it cannot be returned to nature. This indicates that the compensation will be the basic form by which the return of the property will be realised. In what way does the value of the compensation be determined? By establishing the total value of the assets, by an estimate of the tax administration, the sum is made in proportion to two billion euros. What happens if the total estimated value is one billion euros? It's a real possibility, unless you have an estimate that it's a far greater amount than two billion euros. Then all users will get with the coefficient two values of their assets, which means twice as much value as the real value of their property for which they are damaged. This in itself leads to the fact that such a conjecture is completely pointless and apparently leads to an unequal position of a person, all of those of our citizens who are damaged by the state. On the other hand, when compensation is determined, he'll be in bonds. However, the law will only be passed, entered into force in 2015 to 2030, i.e. for older people it will be a shorter period, i.e. the LDP amendment for persons over 66 years of age has been adopted. You just said our bonds went very well on the international market. It is known that when government bonds are purchased they are securities of value treated as first-class charters, which require no security. In our laws, even in Serbia when you buy government bonds, then you don't have to separate either for a mandatory reserve or for everything else that you separate from each other. On the other hand, just to brag that we're in debt yesterday, a billion dollars or euros, I'm not sure how much it's a thing of praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61421	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61422	As far as the amendment is concerned, it is definitely estimated that the total amount of compensation was significantly higher than two billion. I don't think it takes too much, not even a dent in the fact that it comes to that conclusion. As for these other things, theoretically, of course, what you're saying is right, but the trust that one country has in this way and it shows that it has is precious and I think it's more than good what happened. In our current economic relations, it is very important for the banking sector to turn to real economy, not business with the state, which I think will be dramaticly important for the economy. I'm talking, so, about the money that's coming in and our pay-balance positions are going to be in a much better situation than they are right now, so I think it's a very good thing that we had a chance for this transaction to be done the way it was done. In other times, it will show what this will have on the country's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61423	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. The time available for the parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61424	I have the right to a replica. Mr Petrovic, it would be good if this was a successful result of borrowing the reason why they trust us very much in Europe. This successful borrowing is the result of a very high interest rate. Because look who can buy first-class paper at 7.3% per year. If I count well, it is 70m euros each year, which will go abroad. That's not exactly commendable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61425	The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61426	It would be remarkable if it were first-class bonds. Serbia has a "BB minus" credit rating, so, given the country's rating, the result that has been achieved is very, very good. Such interest rates have been met by countries that have significantly higher credit ratings than Serbia. This is a sign of trust that has no repercussion only on how this transaction will pass, but a very serious signal for all investors, commercial, who, based on this transaction, can come to the conclusion that Serbia is a country in which you can freely invest your money, that no one will come to nationalise that money, that the state is able to reconcile its tax revenues with its tax expenditures, public taxes, etc. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61427	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61428	When I said "first-class", I meant state, not that Serbia has a high rating, but that state charters are of the value guaranteed by the state. Just look at Greece, which is one of the most in debt in the world. See what the Greek government will sell in 2012 and you will see how safe it is to invest in state securities of value. In that sense, I meant "first-class," because they don't require special insurance like investing in the economy or anything else. Unfortunately, this interest rate is only an indicator of the situation in which Serbia is presently located. All countries in the environment are in debt at 10 years per few percent lower interest rates. Unfortunately for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61429	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. We have completed a search in the particulars of the amendments submitted by a group of DSS MPs. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Sasa Dujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61430	Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, I will return to what is paving our citizens and what is the subject of today's conversations of many of our citizens when it comes to this return of property and compensation. I will speak on behalf of a population or a group of citizens who have asked me to submit the amendment today. I have submitted an amendment to Article 31(3) and for the sake of the public, I will quote it: "By the provisions of this law, a total compensation can be made on the basis of the seized property of one former owner, based on all the grounds laid down in Article 1 of this law, which in general cannot exceed the amount of 500 000 euros in general interest. "I propose with my amendment that this does not end, but to continue with the words "except for the compensation of legal persons of special importance, such as organisations of fighters, military people with disabilities, families of fallen fighters and others". Maybe it wouldn't cause anything special right now if the property of this group that was built after World War I, World War II, was really not worth it and huge, but it was well after World War II and later nationalized. So that property was made up of various homes, clubs, resorts, other facilities, business facilities where these veterans from these past wars, and the first and the other ones, simply got what the state couldn't at that time give them. After World War I, the state of Serbia had a huge number, then they were called cripples, today they are called military people with disabilities. In order to find a way to help them, the king brought an indication there for 20 and some years that they could beg one day a month. After World War II, there was another opportunity, and according to NOB participants, there was a little more attention, property, facilities in various places, I believe that fellow MPs well know that from their cities where they come from, there is a home everywhere which is an object or a legacy, gifts, legislation, or from some disabled funds purchased and acquired property. Some years it's all nationalized. We have an example of the Army House in downtown Belgrade, we have an example of the House of Military Disabilities in Sava Square where eight thousand squares are nationalized. That's what organizations who run it need now and keep an eye on it. It cannot return naturally, of course, to damage itself. I was in about 50 places in Serbia where it exists, where there is accurate property, catastraically written that the ownership of these organisations is. The question arises: is 500 thousand euros actually the right measure of value to create some kind of home of veterans, a home of disabled people, anything that would restore the purpose of this particular law that we're talking about right now? We think we should rule out this part. Of course, we are not supporters of this being epochally returned to one dinar, or to the euro, given the value it was, but we need to exclude this kind, because we think it deserves it. We see that by amendment of one parliamentary group to the Bill on Public Property, one fund, I think is retired, in a specific situation, because the property has been excluded and put aside by the law. I don't see any reason why it can't be done here. Of course, later on in some other acts, in the context of this law on return of property and compensation, it should be done to make it the way it should be and that this population is. These citizens are protected as far as possible at this point. Of course, we don't expect to share, to have the privilege of anything, but to share fate with our people on the same terms, these days we've been listening to everything and everything when it comes to NOB participants, after which, foxdoers. We simply believe that this should be considered and I call on the Minister to consider on behalf of the Government this amendment or perhaps with some correction, or how a living person is appropriate and acceptable to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61431	Two minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the title above Article 32 and Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61432	Article 32. We have foreseen that attitude 1 is changed and that the value of the seized immovableity is determined in accordance with the law governing the expropriation. On several occasions, and in principle, I mentioned that I do not see any reason to establish any new special way to determine the value of the property process, and I believe that these procedures are as they are intended to be completely unclear, and when they are unclear, they are normally not in line with the constitutional principle of legality and the rule of law. I believe that such provisions leave too wide a space for discretionary rights, different perceptions and application, knowingly or unconsciously pave the way for corruption. The case is done, according to the law, by a professional authority. However, this law does not prescribe what authority it is. I heard someone in the debate mentioned the IRS. The law provides effective judicial protection in the event of an incorrect assessment. The value of the immovable property is determined by the solution to return the property, i.e. compensation, but it is not possible to appeal against this solution to the Ministry of Finance. An administrative dispute may be initiated against the ministry's resolution, but in the administrative dispute it cannot be questioned at all, as the administrative court, as you know, decides only on the legality of the contested administrative act, so that there is no judicial protection against the assessment of the value of the assets carried out by that so-called competent authority. The lack of judicial protection in relation to the acts of the Authority of Administration, we cannot practically treat it differently, but rather the opposite of the Constitution and all international conventions on the protection of human rights. That is why the amendment provided for the assessment of the value to be carried out in accordance with the law establishing the expropriation and how it is arranged, we believe that this issue is very solidly regulated by the Expropriation Act, that it has a rich practice, but it also has judicial protection of rights. That's why we expected this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61433	Fifty seconds have been used since the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, and thus the time available for representatives of the parliamentary group has been used, and the parliamentary group has 22 minutes and 12 seconds to go. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoje Obradović Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61434	I thank Mrs Comic, article 32, points to the way in which the value of immovableity is determined and says it is done by the tax authority and this thing is indisputable. So when the tax authority determines the value, then we'll think that the value is undeniably wrong, and that determines according to the procedures that apply under some other laws. Take, for example, the City of Belgrade. As the tax on property was changed at the end of last year, and when it was changed, it was estimated to be a very high tax on property, that the taxes would be large and tax authorities in Belgrade, I suppose you know very well, Mr Petrovic, the tax authorities in determining the property tax determine a far lower value of squares than it is marketable, so that the total amount of property tax would be lower. I think the maximum price is square, don't take me 100% right, but I think it's 1,250 euros, I think. For the city's central municipalities, and for all other municipalities it's lower. You will agree that this is far lower than the real market value. On the other hand, why there is no possibility and the tax authority is not infallible. This is a very sensitive question of asset assessment, in the amendment I suggested that if the damaged owner was not satisfied, then he was left with the possibility of hiring an authorised judicial expert in his expense to carry out the assessment and then comparing the two values in some procedure and in some subsequent skill, the real value of the property would be achieved. On the one hand, the law provides that it is not market value, but compensation, and then there is the possibility that the tax authority will establish a lower value, and it will again go to the party's harm. This process would not have slowed down, the deadlines are very long anyway, the state's bill goes nothing, and at the end of the process, all parties would have been far more satisfied than they are in the proposed model.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61435	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above article 33. And a member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61436	As soon as possible, I won't even use the time of the amendment. So, the same explanation as the previous amendment that was considered to be a proposal to determine the value estimate in accordance with the law governing the expropriation, so that the same argument is valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61437	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61438	Same as for the previous amendment. This time the value of moving things is determined and again there is no possibility that an assessment body will make a mistake. We will agree that this solution can create a number of problems. I also suggested, on the cost of the party being damaged, which is being returned to the property, that someone on the court's list be hired to carry out an assessment and then simply establish another possible doubt in the process, that it should be removed, which may arise. The state has no cost, the procedure is not significantly prolonged, and yet one party will not be satisfied after the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61439	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above the article34. And the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61440	The title above Articles 34 and 34 speak of the compensation of the taken-off enterprises. In the case of taken-off companies in an act to take away an entity, i.e., if it is a pure asset, the basis of the compensation constitutes the value of a pure active valorised on the basis of the money's parity according to the US dollar, on the day of the withdrawal of the property and the parity of the dinar compared to the US dollar, on the day of the adoption of the solution. Here, Mr. Minister, the promoter, the government probably missed because it was a matter of logic, but it was not excessive and that it was listed on the day of the decision to determine the amount of compensation. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: What if someone asks a question, what if there isn't a registered share capital or if there's no confiscation act and it can happen, etc. There may be a lot of things that may be unclear, but no matter what, it can also be applicable, but in the SRS, it is not acceptable to the entire amendment, or the whole bill proposal, and this article, in particular, that it will be very difficult to apply these provisions of the bill and in the worst case scenario, that is, it is impossible to establish the real value of the assets and businesses taken away and thus establish what we are saying both in principle and throughout the day in relation to the amendments, there will be no correction of the injustice, these relationships when real things will be established both by law and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61441	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above the article35. and a member of the 35th amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Petar Jojic and MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above the article36. and member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above article37. And a member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61442	In Article 37 of the proposal, we proposed that the first word "legal" be replaced by the word "executive" and all with a desire to shorten the process of exercising the right of those to receive funds under this compensation. Under the general legal rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act, administrative disputes and other regulations, you know that administrative acts become enforceable when they become final in the administrative procedure, or before they become judicial. This means that the solution to the return of property and the compensation that it can actually be executed and, in the case of, means by our solution, that an administrative dispute has been initiated against the solution and we believe that nothing is disputed for the former owner to receive an advance and to exercise other rights, although he has initiated an administrative dispute in order to remove some violation of his right. What did we want to achieve with this solution? By prescribing that the former owner can receive an offer only in the legal capacity of the solution, you have tried to put pressure on the former owners, who demand the return of property, not to initiate judicial proceedings, because in that case they delay the payment of the advance and restitution of property for several years. For a large number of former owners, this is a major problem, given the recent year, of the material situation and this attempt to over-require the LDP, it does not solve the problem enough. What's reality? The decision shall become legal if, within 30 days of the date of the adoption, no action has been brought in the administrative court or if the action has been brought to judgment. Before the so-called. The judicial reform of the deadline in which the verdict was reached was about a year. After the reform, that deadline is over three years old. The fact is that this year's administrative court delivers rulings on complaints launched in 2008. The second part, and the big problem for former owners and resolvers, is the fact that there are difficulties in determining when the solution has become legal, even when the action has not been filed, or whether the action has been brought. Why? The lawsuit is handed directly to the court, and the authority which has reached a solution to the suit finds out only when it is delivered to him by the court because it needs to be answered, however, there is no deadline in which the court is obliged to do so. On the other hand, the court does not keep records of the administrative acts against which the charges have been brought, so it is practically impossible to establish before the case is filed, by checking to the court whether the action has been filed at all or not, i.e. whether or not the administrative act has become a force of law at all. Since it is prescribed that the payment of advances is made only on the basis of a judicial solution to former owners, as counterpart Rade Obradovic said, judicial protection is disabled and is stalled by advances in breach of the general legal rules. We really suggest that this amendment be adopted as necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61443	It was used two minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61444	We're familiar with our amendments, so I don't make a big introduction, since we're looking for an erasure. Mr. Petrovic, let me draw your attention, even if I may remind you of that basic profession of yours, every administrative procedure is being initiated, as a rule, at the request of the party, and the whole process is being conducted on official duty. That's familiar. If you have already given a solution that the party does not bear any costs in this procedure, it is good, however, you had to keep the geodetic organisations in paragraph 3 because they are privatised and it is a private cost to establish the documentation for the request and since we are now talking about the application documentation, you had to intervene with members of the 5th and those members of the occupiers, etc. In Article 42, there is a position that states that a person who has foreign citizenship is required to provide, with a request, evidence of the absence of interference from Article 5. There's one problem, who's going to give them confirmation, the problem isn't solved and it's insolvent. Since there is a little more talk here about these procedural provisions, all these provisions in practice need to be interpreted as exceptions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since these are exceptions that have primate, the other part applies the General Administrative Procedure Act. In determining the value and thus the compensation, there is a possibility in the administrative dispute that this will also be disputed, because in the administrative dispute, the legality of the individual administrative act and the end of the waitings are disputed, there is nothing. To make an analogy with an exploded asset charge that can be made in an extraparate procedure if it is not determined, etc., there is not a single point of contact with the compensation. Legally and legally, there is no one. These are completely two different procedures. Both, unfortunately, are set up to be legal. Mr. Petrovic, come in, watch out for that diploma, don't just smile. Warn people not to make such an elemental mistake what lawfulness is, what is enforcement etc. The introduction to law can't pass a man in college if he doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61445	It's been used 15 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. You have another minute at your disposal. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61446	I'm so glad you're here because we started today's conversation on this subject, but the amendments that the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia on Article 13, and here we are again. In Article 38, it states that the acquisition of assets and the pursuit of compensation are not subject to any type of tax of administrative and judicial fees, but in paragraph 2 states that the applicant is subject to the costs of the procedure in accordance with the Law. The rich, wide, and the undefined, and the unencumbered, so whoever wills can reach, determine and prescribe. We're asking to delete this point 2 but to delete attitude 3 where it's said to be extremely of this point 2. – the applicant is not obliged to pay the costs of working and providing services to the Republic Geodetic Institute, but is obliged to pay compensation for the work of the geodetic organisation in the event that its engagement is necessary for the rule of resolving the requirements. We are asking for the erasure of both Item 2 and Item 3 because the regulation of the bearer's obligation requires that it bear the costs of returning the seized property is indeed not correct. We believe that those who are damaged by the confiscation of property must be exempt from the costs of the procedure. It is unacceptable that the state that took away their property charges its return by calling it the costs of the procedure. This amendment should be accepted that all those who are damaged would not again be damaged by bringing this kind of administrative obstacle, material problems, which would in fact violate the very essence of the right to return of property. Secondly, I wonder how this position 2 could have been like this and found in the law, when it is not explicitly prescribed what costs. According to our current practice and experience, we can interpret it this way. The agency that will deal with these affairs is opening up space, that it prescribes an obligation for former owners to pay the agency a fee in the amount prescribed by it and whatever it deems necessary to prescribe a fee. We are used to having such vague, early interpretations and cracks behind such proposals and provisions, and then opening such a gap, that the agencies themselves, in their own opinion, only charge the costs because they are only able to issue certain acts and that these costs have absolutely nothing to do with the work and value of the work invested in issuing a certificate, or obtaining an act. It was not excessive in Article 13 to define precisely, as we have said, that no fees on the documentation required in the request for return shall be paid, that the party in paragraph 3 shall not suffer any damage unless the document has been issued in good time. You also need to delete attitude two and attitude three here. I think it really wasn't right to talk about justice and leave people this kind of cost again, which some people can really put in a situation that they can't achieve their right, because they can't pay the costs that are planned here, and that, I don't know what costs, because they don't define any closer to what costs they can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61447	Two minutes and 10 seconds were used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61448	I don't think it's so vague what can actually be the subject of what we're talking about, because the two laws only come into consideration, that's the law we're discussing now, when it comes into force and the General Administrative Procedure Act. There are no unknowns or any hidden dangers. On the other hand, anything relating to taxes must be governed by law. It can't be determined by the agency's will or anyone else as a cost. I think it's important that everyone has a completely open path and not be burdened with any burdens that might interfere with their actions. I don't suppose we'll have any problems here. And if it wasn't for this provision, she would be. If it wasn't explicit, the interpretation of the law would once again lead to the need to settle the matter of costs based on a general procedure, which here is a subsidiary of the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61449	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61450	The time of the parliamentary group, it doesn't have to be a replica. If the applicant writes in paragraph 2 it shall bear the costs of the procedure in accordance with the law. If the Agency is to be provided as an authority to carry out the compensation procedure, is it doubtful that the Agency will introduce a cost, such as a central register that takes a pretty high amount of money for the issue of a single certificate, in order to only enter one confirmation of the information, or which uses that type of monopoly, because only he can issue that certificate? That's the practice that's problematic. I don't even think about it at all, I'm saying that it can only be the possibility that these costs of procedures that can appear in accordance with this law, which, you're a lawyer and I'm an economist who, I didn't want, has to know the law in one piece, there's no reason not to specify things. If you are aware that it was left unaccounted for, say it, that you started the first sentence – it could be or could be understood. You know that it must be explicitly written and that no state body has ever interpreted the law like that, even when interpreting it, in the interest of the citizens, to release it from any expense. If he set him free, somewhere on a line, on the other side, he got paid for it. I'll tell you when it comes to all the free stock records. The state predicted it would be free of charge for citizens and said that brokerage houses would work for citizens for free, but the state paid them the cost, from whose inheritance or black fund, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, it was taken back from the citizens of Serbia and what was reportedly free -- no, that's what the citizens pay again means, not that there's no reason to remain undefined, but it's necessary to know what tax is paid, in what procedure, so that tomorrow the agency, according to the public agencies law, is not someone you can control to that extent and to prohibit her from having that kind of costs and charging them. I really think it's time for everything to be defined and that one practice for different rules to be delayed for six months later, and you know that we are in a lot of things that concern, for example, MUPs, security in Traffic, etc. delay the application of some part of the law because it wasn't passed the rulebook. As far as SNS is concerned, we advocate that every law has an immediate contribution, because it's the only way we can look at law enforcement in the beginning and in the whole. So if we're passing a law whose application we want as soon and immediately as possible, we really don't need to leave anything in the fog and for later special regulation. In this regard, intervention was both in Article 13 and in this Article 38, the determination of the obligations of those seeking recovery of their assets. But besides, you have a right to do that. I wanted to intervene, it's up to you to decide and refuse the amendment and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61451	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61452	Just for a little while. So this thing isn't messy. The General Administrative Procedure Act has provisions governing the way in which it decides on the costs of the procedure. There is no possibility that citizens who initiate this kind of procedure may be in a worse position, but that everyone who is in front of the state has a procedure to exercise some of their rights in administrative procedure called the General Administrative Procedure Act. So there won't be any strangers here. Just because the agency conducts the procedure doesn't change anything about what this is all about. We can lead the controversy of some other things. As far as this is concerned, nothing changes the fact that he runs some kind of administration at the Ministry or the Directorate or anyone else. It's very predictable, and I don't see that we're going to have any problems here. As far as the cab is concerned, both the MUP and anyone else, the fees are also prescribed by law and no one can charge any tax unless it is explicitly provided by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61453	One minute and 10 seconds for the minister. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61454	I just don't want to be vague. I guess I wasn't clear enough. So, first of all, we advocate that damaged citizens who claim property should not pay taxes as you said in article 38 that the acquisition of property and the achievement of compensation, under this law, is not subject to any kind of tax, administrative and court fees. So, this property acquisition process, I would interpret as a lawyer, that the process of obtaining property and restitution is, and what if he pays, in that Article 13, when I say that it provides documentation where you didn't want to accept the amendment that he has no cost of obtaining that documentation at all? So this is my political position – that a citizen should not be costing to launch and conduct a return procedure. You have this, I say, you want to free them a little bit, you won't. In the part of obtaining property and carrying out the notice, it will not be subject to tax and other costs, but you say it will have some other costs in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. All right, that's your attitude, but I'm telling you that I advocate that they shouldn't have that kind of cost. On the other hand, to avoid any misunderstanding, I mentioned the MUP in the context of the non-registration rule, which was to be brought in within a period of six months, but was not passed and then the application of one part of the law is delayed. So, it's a bad practice when we don't get all the sublaws in writing, which we should have at the time of the law. I'm sorry, I won't answer this question again, just so I don't stay vague.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61455	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61456	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr Petrovic, we used to be MPs together and some significant laws have a large number of amendments. This is one of the laws that has the largest number of amendments since I've been an MP. What is interesting about this law, absolutely all parliamentary groups had amendments to individual members, and yet specificity, I don't know any law that had situations like this that on certain members of different parliamentary groups had identical amendments. I think on one of the previous members, you weren't there was Mr Djelic, I think six parliamentary groups had an identical amendment. It's just saying how different we've looked at the way the matter of this law is arranged in relation to the government. Of the 241 amendments, the government accepted three, 238 refused. On this article, which we are talking about, three parliamentary groups of completely different programmes have the same attitude and the amendment is identical. Our position is that this law removes the injustice, the injustice that has been done to Serbian citizens and individual foreign citizens. If the aim of this law is to eliminate injustice, it can be removed by returning property or by replacing property and those who are once damaged need not have any expense, even if symbolic. It's not supposed to be a single dinar, because in fact, the law eliminates injustice. If it's a proposalor's intensity, then it can't be a expense, even if it's symbolic, because everything else reminds you of that – then you'll apologize for beating you. That can't be the result of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61457	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the 4th title above the article 39th and Article 39th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61458	Here, I'll finish my presentation. He can't take it any more physically, but I want to go with this Article 3. My colleague Zoran Antic will continue, don't worry. In article 39, I had to answer and ask. We have submitted an amendment under which the parties to the proceedings are subject to the request of the Republic of Serbia and the return obligation if the debtor is not the Republic. What's unusual? Could a republican public defender be a party to the process when he is a representative of the Republic of Serbia? We know that parties can be the Republic of Serbia when they are obliged to return property, as well as when they are not obliged to return, because in case the debtor does not have to return the property, the Republic has a obligation to pay compensation. We thought it was a mistake, you think it's okay. Indeed, it seems a little unusual to me that a republican public defender as an advocate appears as a party to the proceedings, especially now that, with this big newspaper, we have an advocate who can only be a lawyer, and not even those who are authorized to represent himself in the recent regulations adopted in the previous session, so this seems to me, one, not to say nonsens, but you are a lawyer, so go ahead and evaluate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, only on the basis of Articles 90 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Notification, to inform you orally that on the basis of Article 19. Law on the National Assembly and Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly begin the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened on Monday 26 September 2011 at 17.00 a.m. on the same date, on Monday 26 September, but starting at 10.00 p.m. All MPs will be informed of the deadline, but since we have now moved time from 17.00 to 10.00 hours, let me just give you this oral notice. As for the notification of Article 90. The National Assembly was presented with a draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law. It is also in electronic form in MP clubs, so since the information is already oral, then you know that, since Friday night, if there are any members of the Parliament who are interested in the work. On the voting day, we will then provide information, only it is important that I do not miss to inform that the session starts from 17.00 to 10.00 hours, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly. The title above the 40th and member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61460	I'll just take a minute. It's about monitoring this whole restitution process, which wasn't satisfied with the SNS. In a series of amendments, we have sought to convince you that the restitution administration is a much better solution and that this whole process should be controlled by state institutions directly, not by agencies. You had no understanding. That's why you claim to be able to do it the right way. We sincerely hope you're right, but here, we're keeping that reserve. That is the essence of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61461	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 41 and Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61462	We are now in the procedural part of this law that regulates who parties are in the process of submitting requests, who are parties, who are the authorities of the application. It says – the request for the return of property according to this law is submitted by all former owners, of course, if they still exist, i.e. their legal heirs and legal followers. The application referred to in Article 1 may be submitted jointly by all legal heirs, former owners or each of them individually. There will be plenty of work here not only for that Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, but also for our courts. It is about to read and conclude from this bill, or its Article 41, that those judges who have not been admitted to this reform of the judiciary will have to do. They'll all stand together, so they'll stand trial, sue and so forth. Then they'll be busy. Mr. Minister, when we say that your intention is not serious to do this and bring it to an end, we set long deadlines, we present those limits that exist. We don't regret what it is, but we're trying to tell your arguments that from the very beginning, there's really no serious intention of doing what you wanted to do. That suits us, because it's conceptually consistent with what the SRS thinks. Here, this previous member, they're connected in some way. Within 120 days, the Agency will announce or publish a public call for interested parties to submit this request. I understand you should make a decision within 120 days. It may be rational, maybe objectively not a shorter period, but 120 days that it takes for the agency to publish, call those who are interested, it's a really long period. There's no serious intention of restoring property here, because you know probably, perhaps even which judges it is, one judge who made a decision on rehabilitation, he's not re-elected just because he's made a few decisions on rehabilitation, of course, at the request of the interested parties for that part, so there's no serious intention to make this happen here either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61463	It's been used 12 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61464	This 120-day deadline is due to what it takes, above all, for the agency to be formed when the law enters into force. That's why it takes technical time, and we're confident that this process action that you're talking about right now is going to be done in a short time than the law has prescribed. They felt that it would be very unserious to set shorter deadlines for this, because this could lead to unpleasant situations, that these deadlines would be extended without legal obligations being carried out. As for the length of these procedures, no one has the illusion that things will end within a very, very short period of time, because they didn't end anywhere in the short term. All the countries we can see have these procedures that don't last for a while. On the other hand, Serbia is also a country where this kind of procedure has been conducted so that some of these procedures are not even completed today, such as returning on the basis of a agricultural land fund and similar procedures. It is important that we move into this and that there is a very serious intention that things end in as short a time and short a time as possible. We truly believe that we will have a very, very intense process and that we will be able to see these first decisions and that the first people who apply the requirements, the first persons who exercise these rights, will not be too long for this process to start giving first results.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61465	National MP Rade Obradovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61466	Article 41 defines who can submit and how the application is submitted. It would have been all right if six years ago no law on the application and registration of seized property had been passed. The law envisioned deadlines and envisioned everything to be obtained from documentation. That this base that exists is also valid, it proves the Law of Public Property, which we discussed a few days ago. In order for something to be entered as public property, provinces, local self-government and all those entitled to this must be confirmed that the property is not registered under the 2005 law. The other thing, I think it's high time that Serbia stops time to measure from the date on which one government is elected. Most of the things the previous government has done are defined as bad and I guess as bad. If the people who were damaged collected the documentation and submitted the requests, then these requests were automatically to be forwarded and accepted as applications and returned to the seized property. Of course it should have left the possibility that, by my amendment, it should have been defined. It should have been possible that if someone wanted to complete the documentation, if there were any changes to leave the possibility to do so, but there was no way the whole process could be done again. By solving the bill, the Directorate will mail that all these people, I think 150,000, return the documentation, and they will again, only to the second counter to file the same or similar documentation. You'll admit it's pretty unserious. They filed one of the documents under the law passed by the National Assembly. This documentation and this database is good, because the Public Property Act confirms it. It just had to be done, it would speed up procedures, cut costs, cut the whole thing short. On the other hand, it would show that this country has a certain seriousness that things don't work, identical things don't do 15 times.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61467	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61468	The important thing is what you're talking about and it's a subject that she spent a lot of time on people who wrote this law, unfortunately. Much more than half of the requirements that you are talking about and which are based on the Law of Recording do not satisfy its content, it is not similar to the beginning of this procedure. That's why a decision has been made and those who are going to implement this have estimated that, regardless of what people are really going to be in trouble to restart the procedure, that from the point of view of legal certainty, it is much more celibate for everyone to get a notice. In order to make it clear in that notice what all the necessary contributions are necessary to deliver, that, in different places, decentralised one procedure can, within a short time, all submit re-requirements, make these requests as complete as possible in order for them to be handled. Unfortunately, state procedures are such as to require a certain dose of formalism so that things could continue to be, as simple as possible, those who were legally involved in the concept of this regulation felt that this was the least bad solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61469	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61470	I fully respect what you said, but then it's in direct contrast, if that's true, then it will obstruct the application of the public property law, because the public property law doesn't say that this documentation is a qualitatively rated documentation, but anything recorded as an asset will not be able to be entered as property of any body. This means that this process of transfering public property, which we discussed, is a pity that we didn't know this a few days ago when we discussed public property, because this means that this procedure in public property did not assess whether this documentation was good or bad, but said – if it is registered under that and that law. So all 150 thousand recorded will be disabled to register and have no owners. We should have known that when we passed the law and discussed the law on public property. On the other hand, what you said is in no way contrary to what I said. All those whose property was not properly reported could complete the request. Who says that under this law, when the property is registered, everyone will submit the proper requirements. And they'll have to complete the paperwork. This just makes a significant new cost to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61471	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. The title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61472	Therefore, in the draft law, you provide that since the Agency makes a public call within 120 days of the date of entry into force of this law, there is an application to be made and here you provide for what everything should contain this one request, and which documentation should be attached to that request. This time I'm not going to go into it at all or what the request should contain, or any documentation to be attached to that request, for the simple reason I've asked to delete this whole member, therefore, erasure for purely principled reasons. However, Mr. Minister, I'd like to try and agree on one legal matter, to agree on at least one thing. Listen to me. The property for which an application is submitted to the proposed member shall be seized in one, at the time of the applicable law, by the procedure implemented. I think we agree on this. If that's the case, and it is, then we're going in with this one dangerous precedent. We are entering a precedent called the majority of 126 MPs. Right, we don't have it, but you do, and you get into that precedent. You are entering that danger, and you want to make this precedent a rule that every congregation can undo the laws passed by a previous congregation, only if it doesn't like it. That's not good. It can simply have inconceivable legal consequences for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61473	The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61474	I respect your concern for legal certainty and for avoiding risks that can arise. It's just that things happen, things get passed by laws that sometimes aren't good, and you have to find the answer to all that at some point. Unconnected to this proposal of ours, I'll remind you of one thing that is of a civilizational nature. The way Jews were killed during the Third Reich was a legally arranged way. There were laws that established the commitment of the state to do so. Of course, when it was all over as we all know it after World War II, it didn't bring anyone into a position to say -- because he acted legally he was protected from all the consequences that came out of it. So there are things that are illegal, even though they're legal. Then it's time for that illegality to be removed, it's simple history. At this point, there are a large majority of MPs in this assembly, I think a significant majority of citizens in order to resolve this issue. If it had been easy to resolve it, I would not have waited for this assembly of parliament and this session today, but it would have been done by now, but that very large number of very complicated and difficult things and property-laws, but also moral ones that have to be resolved, here is the moment for this assembly of parliament to make this important decision. I think it will be good for the citizens of Serbia, and we disagree, but the debate was valuable to bring these issues to light from all sides, because then decisions will be quality and safer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61475	The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61476	This member at first sight may seem uninteresting. It refers to the submission and content of requirements that prove the right to return of property - restitution, but it is essentially very important because we need to remind ourselves. It's that people have been taken away from property since 1946, that a large number of these people do not often have adequate documentation and, unfortunately, we have very poor co-operation with the institutions of the state when it comes to responding to the demands they have. I would just like to remind you that the Commissioner for Public Information has brought 109 requests, even to the ministries that have not responded to the request of citizens who have requested proper documentation from the ministries, that I am not talking about local institutions. We also have the fact that even the archives of various secret services are not fully open. It seems to us that a much larger number of documents should be provided under official duty, not that citizens are placed in a situation that in some processes that will last forever prove or struggle to come to evidence of some property, and that they do not, in fact, have the co-operation of the state and that in this way, they can compromise this whole process in many ways and that the success of this process depends largely on the co-operation of the state and the seriousness of the institutions that they need to participate in this process. So it was the motive of the SNS to react by this article to, first of all, change this deadline that is unacceptable. Two years is too little for you to be able to provide adequate documentation in a country like this with this administration. We've suggested that this be five years, and I'm pretty sure anyone who can provide the paperwork won't wait, which is not a day. They'll file documentation, they'll fight to secure their rights as soon as possible, but we think that this whole procedure, and when it comes to requests, submission, will be very problematic in the process of restitution, if you hadn't provided adequate sanctions for all those state authorities, I would say to the heads of state that would eventually have failed when it comes to obtaining documentation. As I said, the state authorities will cooperate with citizens who expect their property to be returned will depend on the success of this process, and for now this co-operation is not adequate and is not commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61477	One minute was used by the MP's group. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 44th and Article 44th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 45 and 45 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zika Gojkovic tabled an amendment proposing that a title be added above members and a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 46th and Article 46th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61478	The Agency shall, within six months and in particularly complex cases within one year of the date of receipt, adopt a decision on the acceptance of the request. Regardless of the bill is contrary to the SRS concept, we must say that even when it comes to Article 46 that it is justified, not by entering whether the deadlines proposed by the provisions of Article 46 are reasonable and realistic, whether the deadlines are six months or a year objective. That's less important. More important than that is the justification of the concept of the whole bill, which, according to us in the SRS, is not good. Mr. Minister, where's the term in Article 46. "complete request"? It's a request. According to Article 42, it contains certain data. If it does not contain certain data, it shall be rejected, according to Article 43, so that this qualification should not stand. The full request is understood. If it's not complete, he throws himself away. Excess of the qualification of this requirement. Of course, it could possibly stand: a request with complete data, although it doesn't need that either. All it took was for the request to be decided by the Agency within six months at the latest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61479	The title above article 47 and article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the People of Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 49 and 49 of the amendment, the People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the 5th title above the article 51st and the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 52 and 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61480	I'm just going to make a small relationship between legal status, and that's regulated by Article 52. The bill, with several previous provisions, to see how unsustainable it is, and in particular another sentence of this article: "The Agency has an account with a business bank. "The agency that works according to public agencies regulations must be within the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia. It's incomprehensible why you wrote this. We have agencies with legal status and agencies without legal status. Why will the status of a legal person to this agency when it does not participate in legal traffic and cannot be the bearer of rights and obligations, etc. I'd like to draw your attention, Mr. Petrovic, to article 49. You here take the execution of the solution only to enroll in the immovableity cadastre. You also had to re-enter the state as an element of this. You forgot that, and that's a very important thing. If you have a majority and you want to push this through, please, the position of Article 3 of point 1, point 2, 5, 6 with the attitude of the 4th of the same article, points 1, 3 and 4 are in collapsing. Please, that will be a reason for many rejections, and then you won't be able to apply the pre-emptive period of two years in the right way. Mr. Petrovic, keep an eye on it, the pre-exclusive deadline means the loss of rights, obsolescence means the transfer of rights to natural law. These are big things. They can't write such regulations. People who don't really know this stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61481	The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61482	A series of amendments submitted by the SNS essentially leads to that intensification that we advocate management, restitution, and we have submitted some more than 30 amendments and part of the amendment fully follows that desire for the restitution administration to carry out these tasks, to be much closer and fully controlled by the state, because we believe that the Law on Public Agencys does not leave enough room for the Agency itself to be sufficiently controlled and that, above all, agencies are doing some professional development work, that it is a major property. Those were, I think, arguments from the first amendment submitted by the SNS. There's no reason to report for a few next amendments because it implies, since you refused to accept the restitution administration, then the very reasons would be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61483	The title above article 53 and article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61484	The 53rd reads – headquarters and organisational units, of course, restitution agencies. We have suggested that it be deleted, but this legal proposal is abundant in legal shortcomings. You had an idea that you wanted to spend, but you really didn't study how to do it the right way. The minister tried several things, which are very important, to lead them into technical matters. It's not a technical issue of public property at this point, it's not two billion euros, it's also a technical issue, it's a fundamental issue. First, it was necessary to adopt a law on public property, to make it effective, and then to pass some laws based on it. I don't know, Mr. Minister, you were a national MP at the time, and you remember a minister who proposed a law on the protection of citizens, and when we in the SRS said it wasn't possible, because it's not a constitutional category, he says - it's written in the draft or in the working version of the Constitution. It seems to me that you've come from that, too, but there's one more thing and we've had a little bit of a crackdown on the restitution agency. Article 63 says the agency will form by 1 January 2012. This – by 1 January 2012, the law enters into force eight days after the day of publication and the deadline for submission of applications will be published by the agency within 120 days, everything is so confused, it has nothing to do with you. You've shown that you're pretty good at matter. You've been a little involved in preparing this and you've been trying to translate what's essential into a polygon of technical issues, which isn't standing. But, well, we still think this is a completely unnecessary law. We'll see what practice shows. That's definitely not gonna be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61485	The 53rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above members 54th and Article 54th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61486	The title above the article 54 reads – the means to work and set up the agency. I asked you to delete this title, and so did article 54. That's where you predict, Mr. Minister, the means to establish this agency and say the funds are provided under 1. – from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, below 2. - of donations and other forms of grants and under 3. - from other sources. We trust you here, so honestly, only in this point 1. So, it will be filled here, that is, the funds will be used only by the budgets of the Republic of Serbia. So, the funds of Serbian citizens and those provided from the loan, and we know how full the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we know how many unfavourable loans were taken, we know how many loans were taken under unfavourable interest, etc. etc. So, it's probably just this form, so the budget of the Republic of Serbia is going to make funds for this agency. As far as these two other forms are concerned, it's so flat and so wide set that it's really not for comment. What are other forms, what are other sources, what is the form of donation is projected etc., etc. As for the objective set by this amendment, Mr. Minister, the objective is legal certainty. You know what it means in translation and apro those little previous stories, if some assembly tomorrow, no matter how we Serbian radicals follow in it, makes a decision, maybe, now wants to check some decisions, wants to check at the end of the decisions made in terms of punishing SRS MPs, you've had a chance to see it today. So when someone might dare to decide to change that, know that Serbian radicals will be against it again for principled reasons because it would be a precedent that would lead us into legal anarchy, right? Now, that's what we talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61487	Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group has submitted to the title above the 54th and 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above the article 55th and on Article 55th, MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above the 55th and 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the title above the 56th and to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 56th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment, MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61488	The title above 58th and Article 58 discusses the existence of the Agency for Restitution, i.e. the director elected and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By forming another state agency with a hundred administrative and civil servants, public spending is increasing at the expense of possible investments, social contributions and other budget contributions and eligible appropriations from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since the bill which is now the opposite of the programme definition, the concept of the SRS, I have submitted before the SRS parliamentary group this amendment, which I ask to delete Article 58 and the title above it, we consider for justified reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61489	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above the 59th and to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the head, six titles above the members of the 60th Amendment were submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Rade Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the chapter, seven titles above the article 61 and the article 61 of the amendment were submitted by the Parliament of the People of the Republic of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 62 and Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Susana Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Spajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61490	It refers to a ban on alienation. The bill promoter refers to the Law on Application and Recording, which was adopted in 2005 and prohibits alienation, regardless of whether it is not defined who determines whether any property can be returned or not, because it is not fully defined, it has yet to be implemented in some procedure and to come to a final solution. We seem to have no reason to find it in this article of the law, we have intervened, but the other position of this member is also problematic, because it is the right to prevent buying, state institutions, local self-government, the AP to which it limits property rights, what is extremely problematic under the attitude of the SNS, and the question is how constitutional it is, do you oblige someone to have a state, local self-government, AP sell their property that has been returned to him. We believe that this is not the place in the law and that it is something that is problematic, and the question is whether or not it is a constitutional provision, which is why we intervened under this article of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61491	The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61492	I had an exchange of views with some MPs here on the importance of legal regulation, preventing property traffic that could be subject to restitution, regardless of legal-technical, I would say, the troubles that have led to the proposed re-application, regardless of the previous law. We felt it was very important to have as wide a security instrument as possible, that the property that is subject to this law be placed outside legal traffic, until the procedure is completed. The right to prevent buying, the serious debate is being led. We have been guided by the experiences of a few countries that have gone through this procedure, and it is particularly interesting what happened to agricultural land. There was an incredible decline in agricultural land prices after the restitution of the buds why the property was leaving, a large number of people were not interested in commitment to agriculture, but were looking for better customers, and of course, by these basic economic laws on supply and demand, led to a drop in price. We thought it was a public interest to find the state there in a position to be able under the same conditions as anyone else to buy that land if that land was returned. We believe that this is a good solution, which is just, on the one hand, and on the other hand it will allow the state that if these prices are low, and the budget has the opportunity to intervene, return to state property, and thus prevent the destruction of national wealth, and all of this property is an important part of national wealth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61493	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61494	You've made me a little confused, Mr. Minister, what's the state doing so much in that land business. I don't recognize it, because she's never had any desire to commit any more serious co-operation in these years that are behind us, and unfortunately that's maybe one of the failures and some agricultural policy, and I don't think your argument is entirely clear, because it's a matter of the private sector, it's even an opportunity to build up in some way these parcels that are quite small, when it comes to the interior of Serbia. It will be more likely that the state's interest here at construction facilities is much greater than the land, and I recognize the government's motive before it comes to agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61495	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61496	I don't want to hide what the government is up to. The time will come to pave the way for agricultural policy, I hope we have some laws on the agenda very quickly, and everyone who is interested will have a quick Agriculture Committee and we will do so in the long and long term. We don't hide anything here, we want to prevent the property that's returned for small money from being concentrated in the hands of a small number of people. We think it's legitimate and that it's good, that it doesn't stop anyone from having their own possessions at their own disposal. In any case, if he wants to sell, under this legal law, he will be obliged to offer it first to the state, if the state does not want to take it, of course, that traffic will not be disabled. So it doesn't collapse here in any way the right of one who, after the restitution, becomes once again the owner of the property that will be returned to him, but this is from our point of view the instrument that we protect public interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61497	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 63 and 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61498	The legal right of an obstacle to buying is the right of every state to prescribe proper regulations, and we had 60 years in the Law on Agricultural Land, the legal right to intercept the purchase of the state. If the peasant wanted to sell the plot, he had to offer first to the Society, the State, I object to you for not putting it in for every other traffic. As for Article 63, I do not enter this content, but I must draw attention to you, Mr Petrovic, from Articles 51 to 59, a large ambition opens up as a problem and a question. Whether this agency you've been planning may have the status of an administrative organisation or an organization entrusted with the exercise of public authority. Why am I distracting you? If you take the Agency for Economic Registers, its final range is recording. This agency does not register, but brings legal and executive solutions that directly concern property, next to the fence, property law is not an absolute right but a relative right. Then you ask the question of an elder of an administrative organization and a whole series of other issues, a team before you have inside the agency as a status issue, you have a structure that corresponds to a company, a board of directors. The big question is, these jobs you've been working on this agency, they're, by their definition, a administrative matter that can only be in the jurisdiction of a state authority, not a quack of a state authority. It's not the Agency for Medicinal Products, it's not this Agency for Business Registers. What you're trying to define as a administrative matter is a administrative matter, and it can't be in the same rank as those quasi-government things in other agencies. There's just a record. This is where you get into the property. Here comes the situation and the forced execution. There's no forced execution at the Agency for Economic Registers. I fully agree, you have inherited the "agency" that came before you and certain ministers rightly object whether with this large number of agencies and their legal status we allow the state to fulfil its functions which are originally state-owned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61499	People's MP, the time available has been used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61500	It's a legitimate discussion about the nature of the institution that needs to do this job. First of all, the legislator had in mind the need for competent people to be hired so that this very difficult and complicated job could be done. This was decided when a decision was made on how to institutionally establish and set out the framework in this proposal for a law. As far as the very essence of authority is concerned, we don't have a problem under the Constitution that in this way we trust this kind of public authority, it's not common, I agree. Of course, it's both about absolute rights and solutions that will be the basis for recording property rights and for gaining property rights in one atypical situation that will be exhausted when this is all over. Here's a suggestion. I'll remind you that the state has always sought some appropriate way of conjecturing an institution that will deal with this. When recovery was made from the land fund and other things were done, various hybrid formations were created, commissions where both judges and administrative authorities entered, different other institutions, so at this point the government felt that, regardless of all the risks, it was most complete to come up with such a solution. I believe that practice will show that this decision is correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61501	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group tabled a title above members of 63th and a member of the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 64th and Article 64th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61502	The basic reason for the principle of nature which is why we are against such a law and therefore against all its members is that legal certainty. Here, the Law on the Registration and Recording of Taken Assets, we were against this law and now it has proved that what the Agency received under that law has almost no meaning whatsoever. Mr. Minister, you said that a large number of requests addressed to that agency do not meet any conditions for continuing to conduct the procedure. So it will prove that this is wrong too, and one of the conditions, I'd say, which is why we're also against this law is, you said it again, and we know that this is going to happen, so the price of immovable property will fall primarily on agricultural land, no matter how or how we take it. There were some colleagues here - a replacement of something else. These young people who don't feel what it means didn't participate in creating it, they'll love money the most, but you won't be able to prevent the concentration of large areas of agricultural land in the hands of those who take agricultural land today. Well, I'm sure you won't be able to because who's got the money today, who's got the chance to buy that land? They have the same ones that are already in Vojvodina, and perhaps in the Sword they have bought large areas and started to deal with agriculture. Of course it will have a major impact on the prices of agricultural products. It's all the dangers we've seen, seen, and that's why we can't give our vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61503	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61504	The government did not accept the amendment I submitted to Article 64. The amendment is due to the amendment to some of the previous members and since they have not been accepted, as a consequence of the non-acceptation of this amendment. This debate is being brought to an end both in principle and in particular and, unfortunately, no matter how long this law has been pending, no matter how many parties in Serbia in their programme advocate the adoption of this law, there is no opportunity to make a law out of whom most of them will be far greater than most who have formed the government. Unfortunately, this law will be unfair and I fear that most of those who seek property will not be satisfied with any of the solutions, so that this law, instead of removing one injustice, which was his obligation, will only make new injustices. Time will show, but it's obvious that the law will be difficult to apply, that it will take awfully long to implement the procedure. It will be difficult to change, and it will only create new dissatisfied people and create new problems. The last thing this law needed was new problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61505	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61506	In Article 64, in the SRS' view, we have one procedure that is inappropriate to a modern, efficient administration that the official government advocates. You have a law on registration and registration from 2005. You have one 40% of the applications, out of some 150,000 requirements that have been submitted to that institution so far, which are complete and which have valid documentation. We see no reason why this institution that was formed in 2005, these same documents to return the applicants instead of all the documents that are fully valid, according to which some procedures can begin within a relatively short period, just not pass on to the future restitution agency and thus speed up the process itself. You know, this is how we get the impression that it's too much administration that is and how present in our country. It's an inefficient administration in which we're all adept and in this way we encourage, rather than edit, to simplify procedures. I'm not saying it's an evil intention, but I don't think the promoter has taken into account, and thanks to that, we're also going to have this deadline that's been proposed, quite certainly extremely problematic, and it's going to have to change thanks to this procedure and this failure in this article of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61507	On the title above the 65th and the 65th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Shami, and the messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61508	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The DSS MPs rarely write amendments that suggest that some members be deleted, but there was no other solution here. The title above article 65 says – the application of the law in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and then in Article 65, the application of this law on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija will be arranged at the end of the functioning of the international administration in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. It is absolutely unacceptable for us that a member like this exists in any of our laws, including this one. Not according to everything we've talked about so far, this member should not stand in this law. Is AP KiM an integral part of Serbia? Yes, it is. Therefore, there is no dispute. Does this assembly pass laws on the entire territory of the Serbian state? It's bringing. Could these laws at this point be applied at this point in KIM, that's another question. I'm going to give you a lot of laws that this assembly has passed that cannot be applied to KIM territory at this time. For example, the Road Safety Act. We can't apply it to Kim because we don't have our police there. But that doesn't mean that members like this should be brought into the law. To make things more complicated, I'm actually convinced that this or some similar law can be applied to Kim today. Why? If the state returns land to a Serb, Albanian or foreign citizen, such as Montenegro or Turkey, why not? You don't think anyone in the world would accept that? I don't think so. Therefore, for extremely principled reasons, for extreme national reasons, this member is harmful. He's actually saying that KIM territory doesn't interest us very much. It indicates the existence of one such member. I beg you, regardless of all our misunderstandings regarding the concept of this law, delete this member from it anyway. In the end, let me just have a few more sentences. We said what we said, and I'm staying on the claim, as far as I'm concerned, the DSS MPs, that this is one bad and hypocritical law, that the chance to accept a larger number of amendments has been missed. You have today had the situation that six different political parties have proposed to you practically the same amendment, from completely different parties, completely different political options. And you refused. You refused 238 of the 241 amendments. However, you have accepted two amendments to the LDP, probably as a reward to help you gather the congregation majority to vote this and this kind of miracle. I believe that, like some other laws, and this law, unfortunately, will not be long a century and will have to change, because it is not satisfied with anyone. Nor will those to whom the property should be returned be satisfied, and I claim that these are not sufficiently protected by the state's interests in the whole business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61509	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61510	Not to quote what Mr. Shami said about the text of this Article 65, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits us from putting such a text in any member of any law. Let's get this straight. First of all, Mr. Petrovic, the application of this law on the territory, does it apply to people or to immobility? Think about it. You say - it will be arranged, so it will only be prescribed after it ceases functioning under Resolution 1244. The civilian part is gone, from military to NATO, there are 5,200 soldiers, the EU and how present. Why is territory and people on this territory being discriminated against? Mr. Petrovic, you just made one theoretical mistake. The right to life is absolutely right, and the right to property is relatively, because it allows certain restrictions to be introduced by laws or to regulate the way you use them. The way we use the right to live can't be arranged, unlike the property that can be arranged. But I accept your mistake and convince the EU that the right to property of all citizens living in AP KIM territory is an absolute right. Here, I imitate you, convince them that the absolute right is the property of all citizens living in the territory of the AP KIM. It's not gonna happen. Accept these amendments to Article 65, even if we save, if possible, a little cheek, both as a people and as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61511	The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61512	This is a theoretical legal question. Property is the right to act on all and therefore is in property law theory, absolute law, bonding rights in the field between those who participate in a bonding relationship, so these rights are relative rights. But now we don't bother people whose right is not a profession. Because that's one thing for a debate between the people in this business. It was very important here to protect the interests of the people of KIM, as we have debated here about the length of different deadlines, and here you are absolutely right in one other thing, that there are pre-inclusive deadlines here that also mean that you lose the right to get what this law allows. There are very serious and serious difficulties, for generally known reasons for those seeking such rights to KIM to be involved in this procedure under the same circumstances as other Serbian citizens. It is very important and important that we make this procedure as quickly as possible, even though we are aware that we will have a lot of difficulties, so that is one of the reasons why the government has put such a provision. Of course, all these remarks you've put on are precious.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61513	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. The time available for the parliamentary group is two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61514	This provision is really too high. The issue of the deadlines and the maintenance of deadlines and the fear that some of our citizens living in the KIM territory will lose certain rights due to the expiry of the deadline under this law that this must be provided to special members is without grounds. In fact, the time limit, as I read the bill, is maintained at the very request. If he is incomplete, insufficient or certain evidence can be better obtained by official duty by the agency, she will. It is enough, therefore, to apply, to make it likely in relation to the right and the deadline is maintained. It can be done by anyone, including the people who live in KIM territory. It's just that this isn't an argument. It is this member of the law that implies our obligation that, in every regulation concerning certain rights and obligations of Serbian citizens, there are certain pre-inclusive deadlines for such a provision to be found in all laws, because they cannot find one kind of right or obligation for citizens to acquire or to put ahead of the rights and obligations of others that are subject to other laws. As far as this whole bill is concerned, as we conclude the debate, it is indeed, as my predecessors have said, unacceptable, because instead of bringing together useful, practical and justly, it has separated it all. Neither there are monetary compensations, when it comes to restitution, they do not exist, thanks to the formula of Article 30, 31, it is completely destroyed, nor there are real restitutions, because it suffers extremely large restrictions. So whatever is applied here, in this regulation, it's smudged, shortened, cut, reduced to one measure that absolutely doesn't allow for serious restitution. The question of a possible change to this law, later, through fact, through practice, will be called extremely difficult, precisely because of communication with the European Commission. You know that very well. This is imposed as a double noose around the neck, both for those who need to be compensated and for the citizens of Serbia who, regardless of the amount you are about to provide, will experience this obligation as extremely difficult because you did not prove by proposing the law or by defending it that the moment when citizens come to the stage to give their money out of their pockets for restitution, that it was the right moment when it was necessary. Thank you. The 65th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of members and members of 65 be added after Article 65. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61515	Thank you very much. I will also take this opportunity to thank everyone very briefly for this debate today, the difficult subject is here and it shows also the discussion that has been at all times, in the debate in principle and today. I thank you on behalf of the Government for all arguments and for those who have criticised and those who have sharply criticised this law, that is, its proposal, of course, for those who will support it. This is either a historic moment or a moment because they were more or less satisfied, or unhappy with the solution, or they were completely against laws such as some MPs' groups here, I think that the state of Serbia has shown its willingness to make a bold move to enter into a resolution, one of the most difficult moral, political, property and all sorts of other topics. No country could have easily finished this thing. We had our own troubles that no one else had, so we waited unfortunately for 2011 to come up with one proposal. The government did not expect this thing to be more kindly welcomed here in parliament or in public, but it was not afraid, as it is not afraid of other things either. And some other difficult historical topics that neither began during this government nor in this decade have come to their very serious decisions at this very time and who is ready to accept the citizens' mandate to make decisions on their behalf must also be prepared for these decisions. That's why I think it's a good thing we stepped up like this. This is not a matter of the EU, of the European Commission or of anything. This is the time to offer a solution to a very difficult problem. Finally, I would like to say that I accept the amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 5. That text you got. I want to thank you all for the great number of amendments and one energy that and when it's against this proposal in any case it was high-level. I hope on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I want the citizens of Serbia to resolve all together a very complicated and difficult equation and I believe that, after the adoption and entry into force of this law, one historical trouble will be less in our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61516	The amendment with the corrections submitted by Natasa Vukkovic and Srdjan Mikovic to article 17, the correction itself. It is understood that the government should also plead. Here you go, Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61517	Thank you, Vice President. We accept a revised amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-23-0.u61518	Thank you. To the title above the article66. And a member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the last to submit an amendment to the search in detail. Before I conclude the examination of the bill in particular, I would like to take part in this 12-hour session to thank all the MPs, employees of the National Assembly, other employees of the National Assembly, the RTS team who worked with us and to wish you the first autumn weekend pleasant and beautiful after this 12-hour working day of the first autumn. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Let me repeat on the basis of article 90 information already given. The 14th extraordinary session scheduled for 26 September at 1700 hours, with two agenda points, was moved to the captain's station at 10.00 hours on Monday (September 26th). On the day for the vote, both for the Eleventh, 12th and 13th extraordinary session, you will be notified in good time and later. I hope that we will do another big job in Serbia on that voting day together. Thank you.
