ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 121 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that it has 116 and has working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, therefore, and beyond the date set out in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for decisions on the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 121 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. I would like to inform you that I have accepted Drgan Markovic Palma's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(2), and paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly finds, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, that it has suspended the term of office before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Dragan Markovic Palmi, elected from the SPS-PUPS-JS election list, on the date of resignation, on 24 September 2011. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the request of 121 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 14th extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, submitted by the Committee for the Justice and Administration of the National Assembly, of 15 September 2011, 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of Krsman Ilic, a public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly on 12 September 2011. The president of the State Council of Prosecutors sent a letter to the National Assembly, issue 03, 118293/11, as of 1 September 2011, a personal request for the resignation of Krsman Ilic, a public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, for the termination of office due to impaired health. Krsman Ilic resigned as a public prosecutor on 24 August 2011. On this basis, the Justice and Administration Committee established a motion for a decision on the termination of the post of Krsman Ilic, a public prosecutor at the Appealal Prosecutor's Office in Nis, and addressed the National Assembly on 12 September 2011. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Article 97(1), found that the decision to terminate the office of the Public Prosecutor was taken by the National Assembly. The position of the same Member shall state that the public prosecutor's office ceases on the day on which the National Assembly, or State Grand Prosecutors, shall state in their decision, except in the case referred to in Article 88(4) and Article 98(1). The law. Article 88(4) found that if the request for termination of office was not decided within 30 days and, as the case may be, the public prosecutor’s office was deemed to have expired within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. At its 89th session, held on 26 September 2011, the Justice and Administration Committee found that Krsman Ilic, the public prosecutor at the Court of Justice of Nis, had ceased his post by force of the law on 23 September 2011, given that he had expired 30 days from the date of submission of the request for his term of office, and within that time, the National Assembly for the termination of office had not decided. In view of the above, the Committee decided that, in accordance with Article 159 and Article 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdraws from the procedure a motion for a decision on the termination of the post of Krsman Ilic, a public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. Dear People's MPs, there is also a proposal for a joint single search on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, but as I informed you that the second item has been withdrawn from the procedure, this proposal will not be declared. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the execution of criminal sanctions. You have received a proposal for a decision from the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening the search, I would like to remind you that, according to Article 192 and in accordance with Article 97 of our Rules of Procedure, the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, and is distributed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; United regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. National MP Zoran Krasic will be authorised as the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a single search for the word came the MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61520	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we have a agenda, and we see that you have now cut it short. These two topics are still connected, because the public prosecutor's request leads to criminal prosecution, so when a court condemns someone, it goes to a prison sentence, and the Commission for the control of the execution of criminal sanctions has something to do with the prosecution, but good. I am simply interested in whether we can be sure that this proposed decision is the final position of the Justice Committee. I'm right to ask the question that maybe you're not joking with this decision? You have also officially given the decision on the termination of the post of Mr. Krsman Ilic, so we can see that you have finally remembered that this situation has been resolved by the Law in Section 4. I simply cannot understand that the Committee on Justice is run by a man who is a member of the Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors and that he does not know that he is applying the law that pushed the muscles into this Assembly. It was only today that we remembered that there was a position of the 4th member of 88 that regulates this situation. I am right to ask whether this decision of yours, or the motion for a decision to elect a member of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, is something that you have finally decided? Maybe you were joking about this decision. It is possible that Mr. Bosko Ristic may withdraw this motion for a decision until the end of the debate. I have a lot of ground to believe in, you gave me that material. You know for yourself, when Mr. Krsman Ilic's choice was that we said - no choice in the prosecution if someone from Belgrade should work in Nis, and you did a reduction of seats and appeals and these new courts of yours and you made it of the judicial function a tourist trip. He lives in one place, he works in another place. Now let's move on to this most important decision. Under the Code of Criminal Penalty, the National Assembly is obliged to form this commission and I think it is a good solution in our Law, because the National Assembly must not be all the same as how criminal sanctions are carried out in the relevant institutions. Better the National Assembly as the authority that passed the law and who should be the most responsible to this country to control what is done in prisons where criminal sanctions are carried out than to be done to us by Natasa Kandic, "The Women in Black", Sonja Licht, some from the Red Cross. There are some who would have to work, and there are some who smuggle and act the Red Cross. What should be the thought that guides us when we choose this commission? We should not only have a formal approach, three from the Justice and Administration Committee and one from these two other committees, but we should still make sure that these people know what the problem is. It's not enough to go to jail and have the warden offer them a house order. So many of our prisons can't be wrong, but they can get into the rooms, talk to people, see not only how many cubics of air there are and how many squares of space there are, or how many beds there are, if there are three meals, but to get a little deeper into what makes prison. If you didn't know, there's a resociation going on. They're going through a kind of team of experts who need to distract them from committing crimes. We're planning a very nice team to keep an eye on when it's time to re-suscitate you. If you go only formally, you will turn five MPs. You resorted here to one ruse, there's one MP from the opposition, but the question is whether it's still an opposition, and this other is the MPs of the majority. As you said on the Health Committee -- our group met, we said it had to be the man who belongs to DS, you proposed, you have most of it, and you chose the man DS. I doubt that this group that you're proposing to do this job will do as provided for by the Criminal Penal Code. Why do I doubt it? Why would MPs who support the government write a report that the situation in a prison is not good, because it would then be a criticism of Mirko Cvetkovic and a complete government. It's for nothing that someone in prison writes, complains, complains, I just can't figure it out. Why would the MPs of the majority think about being able to point a finger at a prison manager, a watchman, a teacher, or point to a problem in some prison? That's impossible, given that democratic principles are applied here. According to one Democrats, democracy is what most people decide. You have an absolute majority here, here it can always be 4:1 or 5:0 and it's always going to be okay, always this commission will say – our prisons, "Hayat" and not equal to them. Why should you criticise it when you come into conflict with the EU? What you're arresting is not what the EU asked you to do. She asked you to arrest the garrisons, the ones that are heavy, the big ones, which create a political scene with their money, and not some of them as small as that to arrest there. We disagree with this composition of this committee, because you have practically painted the National Assembly at this commission. Just to remind you of the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions is running your chamber, General Milan, was it Obradović. You remember "Sabbe" was on time. He's got his past. Breaking his new ones in Budva. You know that. And you're in control of him now if he's well-organized, whether or not someone out there complains about the problems he's having while he's in jail. Now, this five-member commission can look at the whole problem and solve the problem. It's not gonna be like that. That's for sure. And here you can see this violence being waged. Well, then you'll remember that in order to support this commission, penologists, psychologists, sociologists who need to do some professional work, to prepare you, to chew up this material, etc., and formally all settled, and essentially. Will it be a fundamental solution to the problem? We generally have a problem with whether these institutions and institutions are the execution of criminal sanctions in a place where resociation is done or the training of new criminals is carried out. We've got a cell phone problem, we've got a drinking problem, we've got a drug problem, we've got a abuse problem. This team to talk openly about this problem, it's never gonna happen. This team can't put a finger in the face of the government of Boris Tadic. So you're going to formally finish everything well, and you're not going to have any trouble touching it. I'd like to leave the other ten minutes, Mrs. Comic, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61521	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to take the floor? If so, please sign up for an electronic voting system, as it is now part of the session when the right to speak is given to presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? If not, I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a single search for the application of words in writing, with the order of Members of Parliament submitted by MPs from the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be declared the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet Mirko Munjic, after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received a proposal from the Committee on Justice and Management in the assembly procedure on 12 September that Mr. Krsman Ilic, as it says on his own request, be relieved of his post. He also writes that he submitted such a request to the Committee on 1 September 2011, or the president of the state council of prosecutors sent it to the National Assembly. We have reason to believe, in fact, this morning you proved to us that we have and how we have reason to suspect that you tried to deceive the National Assembly and the MPs. We've told you multiple times before when it was a matter of dispensing judges...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61523	People's MPs, I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda. The point you wish to discuss does not exist in the agenda and has been withdrawn in the Rules of Procedure by the authorised promoter. Therefore, a member of the Rules of Procedure obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda, and the subject of the agenda is a commission to enforce criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61524	I don't see, really what's the problem if we're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61525	National MPs, the problem is disrespecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The subject of the agenda is not what you exhibit during the session. I am obliged to remind you that you must comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So I'm asking you about the commission to enforce criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61526	The Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions today is the most common farce. Something that you absolutely deny democratic principles. Only representatives of the ruling coalition are simply inadmissible to be elected to the commission. This formal completion, the separation of business by the congregation's majority is something that is unacceptable to the SRS. No wonder you're doing this kind of work when we have a case that, again, we've been distracting you, we have a case that a member of the High Court was arrested a few days ago. No less judges who were the best judge of the First Municipal Court in 2006, a certain Mr. Jaksic. Now, you're expecting it, and you've chosen it, the majority of the congregation has chosen it, we've turned our attention, or we've turned our attention to the entire High Council, and we really expect the Justice and Administration Committee to discuss this problem as well. You know, it's no small thing that someone who chose prosecutors and judges and who, four, five years ago, was your best judge that he was arrested today for crime and for a corruption affair. Is that for your honor? Is that confirmation to us that the choice of judges, prosecutors, is that done in the right way and is that confirmation that this commission will also do its job as the law requires? It's certainly not a confirmation to us. We do not trust the congregation majority and, of course, you prove for yourself that and how we have reason to suspect that you are well-intentioned, that you are sincere in applying the rules. As he will now behave, here is a question for the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, who is a member of the High Council of the Judicial and State Council, how they will now behave against the unselected, for unreelected judges and prosecutors, when this Jaksic was a member of one of the High Council committees that audited the December 2009 election of judges. So, as much as you want it to bother you that we are telling the truth that Serbian citizens need to hear, the truth is devastating to you, and as much as we are trying to ban us from talking, and as much as we can use it, first of all, our parliamentary rights and business opportunities to get the public from Serbia, first of all, to pay attention to the anomalies that are happening in the justice system. What is on the agenda today, the election of members of the commission on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, has been a commitment this parliament has had since 1 January 2006. The question, I guess, that's allowed to be asked, why it's waited five years for this job to end. Was there so much trouble finding five people, four people you'd trust? Why didn't you do that when you had an obligation under the law? You did not, because you yourself wrote in the explanation that by forming this commission, you say- this will also implement the recommendation from the European Commission's annual progress report on Serbia for 2010 in order to meet the conditions of the Republic of Serbia to obtain membership candidate status, for EU membership. You are all concerned with meeting the conditions for obtaining EU candidate status and that is what is wrong with the SRS aspect. Instead of saying, enough of this EU and its conditions, let us turn to ourselves, to turn to traditional Serbian friends who will not interfere with our internal relations. You continue to rot where you are headed on a road that is absolutely fatal to all citizens of Serbia, and that is today the attitude of the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia as much as you did not like it. You say that recommendation on Serbia's 2010 progress. What's that progress in the area of justice, gentlemen? What's that progress if people who chose judges and prosecutors get arrested? If we can't say that you tried to deceive us by realizing a few days later that the prosecutor should retire without actually being sick. Is that a secret? Is that supposed to be a secret? We would also like to ask, within this item of the agenda, these colleagues you will choose one day when you vote for the fourth session, since you are just dissipating the sessions without voting, until you break up and negotiate, whether they will visit the detention facility in Vranj, to see if anyone there is arrested for the incident that took place in the village of Bobeshno, at the church of St. John the Baptist, when a certain Vladislav Stojanov of Custendil took off the stage a Serbian flag and lit a candle from the church all in the presence of the president of the Bosilegrad municipality. Are we going to have information about that? And in addition, one of the representatives of the Bosilegrad municipality rejoiced with music, of course, fortunately the police ended all this after that incident. Will this commission solve problems, that is, this commission cannot solve them, but will we have information in parliament about what is happening in prisons in Serbia and in detention in Serbia? Not to mention how many people are in one room, how many physical conditions there are for detention, how many people are currently in custody. Of course, one of the reasons is that we turned our attention years ago, to the unlimited length of detention, will this commission, when it sees what it looks like on the spot, possibly initiate an amendment to the law? Are we going to go back to some normal legal and democratic principles or are we going to imitate the Hague tribunal in everything? The detention can take nine years, such as Dr Vojislav Seselj without any verdict in the complaint, of course, on the basis of a political indictment. That's what you do here, that's what you do in Serbia. Who are you arresting? Who's in custody? How is it possible to have an affair about as many proportions as the affairs of these days are current and to respond there to completely anonymous people without answering someone who is in charge of the organ? How is it possible only Minister Tomica Milosavljevic didn't know about the vaccine affair? So, did Paya Momchilov, from here, say everything we read now, is the basis for the arrest of some of the people you arrested? It's as if Dr. Paia Momchilov's stenograms have arrested her, we've told you everything. But it's not worth talking to you. You are making your own and whether it is in line with the interests of the Serbian citizens or not, and you know it, whether it is in line with the interests of the Republic of Serbia, it is not and you know it, whether it is at the request of the EU, and you know it and you know it and that is what unfortunately we cannot yet influence but at least we can inform the citizens of Serbia about it. In prisons, it's a strike. Strikes are starving, people are running away from prison, people are self-injuring, people are killing themselves in the heat of suicide. There's a little bit, a little bit, so we've got info going to some prison, a little bit, a little bit of information on a cell phone, a prison abuse, is that why someone was answering? Is that why you asked this director for the execution of the Obradovic sanctions somewhere, how is it possible that this is happening in prisons in Serbia? It's important that you've equipped that part of the prison at the firehouse in Zabela, and there's a problem. This commission is going to meet this problem and we've had some changes to the law, remember, because people won't guard the Legion. They won't work in that prison, so you raise their wages, so you call a contest to receive new ones so you don't find your listeners. That's not what you're talking about. Is this a taboo topic for Serbian citizens? It can't be. And who will talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, if you at the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions of the Serbian Parliament choose only the MPs of the Parliament's majority. And it's just amazing. What is the control function of parliament if control is carried out only by MPs of the majority? Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's suing you. And now some Djordje Milicevic will apologize, but I must mention the names, Meho Omerovic, Đura Mucenski, Goran Stefanovic, Judita Popovic, to criticise something in the area of justice and to criticise the execution of sanctions in the Republic of Serbia. Of course not. They didn't criticise even when we talked about those bad laws. You're all right. You are all well being sent from Tadic's office, headed by Mirko Cvetkovic. You have no objections to such a thing. You've had these days of objections that you've made to these restitution laws and public property because you've also been given a warrant from the Prime Minister's office so that not every member of the law can change it. And now, you expect us to say these are our colleagues, we don't want to make any remarks. Well, we will. We don't trust each other, and we don't trust all of you who make up the congregation majority, and we want the citizens of Serbia to know that. No, you didn't even have a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, but you're a deputy member of one of this committee, even a deputy member of the board, and you didn't think that maybe one of the members of the Committee from the opposition parties could be on this committee, so that he really sees what's going on at the scene, so let's see what you're trying to hide and formally as you have this commission to please the EU. And will that satisfy the citizens of Serbia, you don't care. You don't care how they treat sick people in detention? Do you know how long it takes for prisoners who have been in custody for years and suspected of some war crimes, how long it takes them in that Special Prosecutor's Office or their detention to get them a doctor? He should come to the brink of death. What is your relationship with the people in custody and in prison? Is that where people are supposed to be re-suscitated or do you have to destroy them all the way? What kind of people get out of custody? Sick, beaten, wounded with permanent consequences. And what happens when a few years go by and it happens to you, and when that man is not convicted, then what happens? They will seek material compensation from the state of Serbia and receive it. And whoever will make up for him all that they beat him up, they beat him up. Do you know that this is done regularly both in custody and in prison? Well, then when someone who was detained shows up and the police beat him up, then he shows up on YouTube, then the police minister apologizes, and what about those where he didn't show up on YouTube, and they get beat up in custody and in prison? And you want the Parliament's majority to control it? Perhaps in the foreseeable future we will have a report from this committee of our dear colleagues who will inform us that our prisons are at the highest European level, how do we follow the highest standards of European detention and condemnation, and we will trust you? Yeah, right. What are the consequences of those 14,000 people still being held in custody? What are the consequences of their physical and mental life? How much money did the state have to pay because you had no basis for arresting anyone you thought of at the time? Today you work similarly in the various actions you carry out, and the real actions, the real fight against corruption and crime, don't occur to you to carry out. And how will you when corruption is at the top of power. That's what your European friends are informing you about. They're asking you to arrest everyone involved in corruption and crime. You can't do that because then you'll be left without the government and without the director of public enterprises and without all the institutions of the system, because crime is corruption in Serbia in all the institutions of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61527	Sixteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61528	The Criminal Sanctions Commission, whose composition you are proposing here today and which you will adopt a little later, could indeed have its hands full in the coming period. It could have its hands full of work for one simple reason, which is, in particular, so many accumulated problems in this area lately, but since many of these problems have been produced by this government, then really, at first I have to say, we have no excessively large illusions that this commission, as well as everything you've done so far, will do something special and something more important to change in the area of criminal sanctions. One of the first things that the Commission could do for the execution of criminal sanctions within its scope, within its jurisdiction, and to review is so-called. an electronic surveillance institution. To remind you of this institute, a house arrest with electronic surveillance was established nearly a year ago. And we also, when you set up this institution in our judicial system, claimed that it was not good, that maintaining a prison sentence in your own house, in your own chair, that squirming in your own pool, and here you maintain a prison sentence, is really not an appropriate measure in our legal system. But remember, you introduced this last year, and we also claimed that this way of executing criminal sanctions, especially when in this way you express yourself to celebrities, then politicians, people close to politicians, people with esthrads, people who run big firms, and all other people who are publicly exposed more than other people in any way, is actually their opposite. That's what we were telling you back then, that's what we're telling you and now we think that this measure really isn't appropriate for us. We claimed then, and I'm telling you now that this measure of house arrest with electronic surveillance in many cases and for many is actually a reward, not a punishment. That's when you said over Home that this is a great measure, that this is the measure that will bring eight to tenm euros to the state of Serbia, etc. There was indeed a lot in the public hearings and here in the Assembly of those who claimed that it was an epochal measure of enforcement of criminal sanctions. What did this measure bring? A reward for those who damage the state, for example, for a million-and-a-half euros by being able to maintain a prison sentence in their chair and by the end of their pool. We have cases that contribute to this claim, and to return to the state what has been kidnapped or taken under conditions that are much better than the conditions of the most favourable bank in Serbia today and in these areas. So, this commission of criminal sanctions could deal with many problems in this area. She could have dealt with another question, and that's a question of whether the court has so far used its authority to allow those in house custody with electronic surveillance to leave its house? You know, and I'm going to remind you that by law only a court can do that, so I'm interested, and the commission should determine how many such cases have been so far, if they were, who was allowed by the court and what are the reasons why it was possibly done? The next thing the criminal sanctions commission should do and what it should be dealing with is the question when the prosecution in the pre-criminal proceedings can refer the suspect to holding the detention in his house with the application of this electronic surveillance. That's what our laundry system also allows and the alleged prosecution determines house arrest in case that person allegedly doesn't affect witnesses. It seems to me that if there's no smarter reason and a smarter explanation, this explanation is extremely funny. You're setting up house arrests, for example, for a man suspected of embezzlement of five million euros on the grounds that his type of house arrest with electronic surveillance determines not to affect witnesses. Well, do you know where only a witness can not be affected? He can't go anywhere, he can't even make this happen in court 100%, let alone in house arrest. Well, in house arrest he can take whoever he wants there. Is that how it can affect witnesses? Normal to influence. The explanation that someone who is suspected of pre-criminal proceedings by the prosecution is determined by house arrest so as not to influence witnesses is extremely ridiculous. This commission should check some more stuff. He should check how many of these cases have been, all of whom have been allowed by the prosecution to use this electronic surveillance institute in a pre-criminal procedure, which is why it has done so, which are the reasons, whether the purpose is fulfilled and to inform this assembly in the coming period. What the commission still needs to do is check how many convicts ended up getting an acquittal. You must know, and I will remind you of that fact, that in our legal system there is one extremely bad practice, which is that detainees are held in several months' detention, and that very often happens to free them from responsibility. I'll remind you that detention should be the measure to be taken when it's really necessary. Only when it's necessary and that detention should last as long as it's really necessary. Not a day more or less than that. If he accepts the practice of that monstrous Hague court, which feeds only on Serbian flesh, it is in our judicial system, indeed not appropriate. The quasi court of Vojislav Seselj has been in custody for almost nine years without a first-degree verdict. You want to copy that court, make that court a model for you, and when it comes to detention, and when it comes to many other institutions. That's what we've been telling you for the past 15 days. You'd have this commission to do a lot more than that. I said at first, the problems really are a lot, they're piled up. The accumulated problems are greatly accumulated by this government, this government. The commission should carry out one more detailed control of business and our prisons and even conditions in Serbian prisons. When I say more detailed control, I purposely say it more detailed business control with economic business accent, because, you know, in their work prisons have some form of economic business. There are some remarks, when it comes to Serbian prisons, about. The standardization of meals in the same, around supplies of certain foods. They say there are supplies of groceries that are reportedly right, but many claim to have seen them in stock, so the commission should, among other things, determine. It's about food for food preparation. Guess which ones, and it's not potatoes? Furthermore, the Commission should take a look at the so-called ". The prisoner's salary. Prisoners have in prisons, during the execution of prison sentences, certain receipts, a certain salary to compensate for their work, for their work for eight hours, and five days, therefore, for 40 hours' hours' work. There are numerous objections that many prisoners in our prisons work much longer. It's also about the nature of the job. Food should be prepared, distributed, etc. Agricultural works that are actually done don't have working hours where it's done. But that's not the problem. The problem is many of the remarks that stand out. What about those extra hours that the prisoners made in our prisons? Where's that fee going? Where's that cash going? Who's taking it? It would be really appropriate for this commission to consider a lot of these things, if it wants to properly explore what it is doing in our prisons. There are still a lot of problems in the execution of criminal sanctions. A lot of problems that have accumulated. I just pointed out some problems that, in a way, everybody's eyes. There are a lot of hidden problems that can be seen and met only at the moment when you really want to, and can do so, if you will, this commission. However, if this commission, within a reasonable time frame, of this and of many other problems encountered in our prisons within its jurisdiction, within its own performance, if within some reasonable time, it does not inform this congregation of any of these problems, then it will be clear to us and it will be truly reliable and secure, that it, like some others, acts on the princip – crows do not take out their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61529	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 14 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. After him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61530	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that we are talking about a restriction here, something that is freedom and could be said, after human life, that this is the brightest thing. Therefore, this debate should be much wider. It leaves the possibility, at least to the MPs of the SRS who only have a registered list of speakers, to talk about those things that lead to the execution of criminal sanctions and a number of other things, and of course, all with the aim of repairing the situation, to correct what has not been done in a good way for years. If I were to be underprivileged, of course, I would take the opportunity to read the provisions and the reasons for the decision, which is why this is being made by an emergency procedure. Based on that, I could put an end to it and stop talking. I'm not going to do it, because it's my intention that the members of the committee who are going to be elected, I guess, and I'm almost sure they'll be chosen, to draw attention to some facts, so that they can apply it in their work. Which is why this decision is made by emergency procedure. Decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions pursuant to an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 168(3) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will fully fulfil the legal obligations of the National Assembly since 1 January 2006. So we're not coming out of the box – we don't love someone and something in the SRS is bothering us, but I'm reading what you wrote. The obligation of the National Assembly was to make one such decision by 1 January 2006. All conditions will be created for the start of the commission's work to control the execution of criminal sanctions. This will also be followed by a recommendation from the European Commission's Annual Progress Report 2010 to meet the conditions of the Republic of Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status, possibly gaining EU membership status. What about those who have been in the criminal sanctions office since 1 January 2006? So, all five years are there. Why didn't anyone take care of them, and we had a legal obligation to do something like that? Another situation, and it's a little paradoxical, the colleagues who are here, you'll agree, it may not matter, but these members of the committee that are being proposed and who today or in the voting day, and no one knows it anymore, and it doesn't matter to us when it's going to be that day, who should hear something about what their obligations are, how and how they should work. Niko, I do not think, of these proposed members – Judita Popović, Djordje Milicevic, Goran Stefanovic, Meho Omerović and Đuro Mučenski. It is five members of the commission who will be tasked with controlling the execution of criminal sanctions. The powers of the commission and the possibilities, respected colleagues, are extremely high. This is prescribed in Article 29. The law on amendments and additions to that law. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was passed in 2005, and he imposed the obligation to elect this commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, so it changed in 2009, so in 2011 somewhere in the spring, when it was reportedly not known, what the proposing's explanation was, as well as how to carry out the selection of the commission, so that it could enter into a job that she had under the law. I remember, and probably those who are interested in this topic, respected counterpart Petar Jojic was our authorised representative in connection with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty, and neither he nor we, today, are against it. On the contrary, we support the commission's choice. But he was then saying that the composition of the commission should be such, even if the SRS did not have any members in that commission, that they would find themselves exclusively, but unequivocally, that is our position, MPs of opposition political parties. That I am now not explaining the story in detail about it and what it means, in which way they will be able to effectively, and whether they will at all oppose, when the members of the commission find certain irregularities among the members of the commission. The right solution would be to be MPs, as it has been said that the commission is composed of MPs, to be opposition MPs. It's an SRS position, for us completely legal and legitimate. On the other hand, it points to the conclusion that if these board members are not interested in attending this debate, will they really do their best? I don't doubt professionalism, I don't doubt goodwill, I don't want to talk about it at all, any of these members, but will they do their best to help people? You know, the largest number of those in the Department of Criminal Penalty are those who are based on the law enforcement, and I want to believe - the valid, decision-making of the judicial authorities are there. There can also be found someone who has misjudged court decisions. Here, my colleagues talked about it. He's a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. The best judge after seven, eight or ten years for what he did in the previous period is in the investigation. I won't talk about it any further, period. I don't believe anyone who suggested it didn't know that was the situation. But at some point, it may have been appropriate for him to do so. Again, my colleagues have drawn attention to the general re-election, as you call it, the judge and the public prosecutors, and we have indicated that it cannot, that it is not good, that it is expensive. And more or less expensive, you do not pay, not the government of Mirko Cvetkovic pays, but Serbian citizens pay for all these attempts and all these experiments, but not good, will not be able to perform in a quality way and otherwise very important, I would say social, not only professional, but very important social functions. It wasn't possible, and we know it, and we pointed out when it was talked about, when it was the point of the agenda, that some judges who hadn't thought to compete in some places away from the place of residence and didn't do it were admitted there and they had no idea about it. Now that's why we have a situation where some people want to be resolved. But why is it important that this commission has the best possible composition that one congregation can offer at a given time? For the purpose of Article 65. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions says: "Everyone must respect the dignity of the convicted. No one should endanger the physical and mental health of the convicted." Now, again, my colleagues talked about it in more detail, is that all? Of course not. I don't think it needs a special status for those people who are in the holding of a prison sentence, but this commission has the right and the ability to control the execution of criminal sanctions. Criminal sanctions are not only punishments for prison, but all that can be said as a measure based on a judicial verdict, all of them can control, can and need and are obliged to control the members of this commission. I need a little bit more to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I don't see any great interest in any of the colleagues whose profession this is, or in the Assembly itself, especially, I repeat again, members of the commission. He says – The National Assembly educates the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, and in the following text – the Commission has, so it says how many members, who can be and from which committees they are. Do you know what that would mean in the international public? To make this commission a request, perhaps to the foreign ministry, perhaps to the justice ministry that it wants to visit The Hague tribunal, that it wants to visit detention or prison units in other countries where our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are holding jail sentences. They'll have the right to do it, but I doubt it'll happen. If they did, do you know what the international public would say? Well, they respect themselves, they appreciate themselves, and they expect to do so to others. It probably won't come to that. This is going to be one form. These should also control the situation, as well as the manner in which the prison administration is concerned, I speak what is the Селгарнски prison administration, the guards, the warden of the prison, to those who are being punished for the maintenance of the prison. Why should this treatment be expressed and extremely humane? For the simple reason that it is necessary to resociate these people and what we should expect for this society of useful citizens tomorrow, because criminal sanctions, in addition to repressive, play a role and preventative punishment and should leave a mark on the person who committed the crime and direct a guideline and some signal to the person who can think, the one who is a thin nerve. For what? Because of this government that today is unable to provide neither treatment nor employment nor education. It is that some standards have changed, we can't say that nothing is right, but every autumn, every spring or summer when students are due to enroll, and students are thinking about whether they're going to be on the budget or beyond. These are all the conditions that lead to some interference among our citizens, and then it is expected, and statistics say that the number of crimes committed has been increasing lately. Again, statistics have said in the last three years that the number of those detained and in prison has increased by three thousand new people. One analysis must be made, perhaps these two members, because this commission, or its members, have extremely large powers under the law and have the right and opportunity to use other professional people, and all about the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget, to give them clarifications, to teach them how and how certain things should be resolved. Do an analysis to reduce our number by three thousand, to make a positive turn in society, not to boast of perhaps increasing the number of arrested. Anyone who works contrary to the law should be sanctioned, but I guess the government's goal should be to create some conditions and some environment that those who may be willing to commit a crime, not to do so. A special relationship, especially this, is expressed in relation to the time spent in custody or in prison. Now let me not remind you, and you yourself have seen either from some confession or from writing or from contact and meeting with people who are there what the situation is and who all at the given moment is to support the prison. What your colleague Krasic told you, some learn and learn very nicely there to continue with what may be more conscious or unconscious, it is no longer important, did before going to prison, and in society with returnees, with those who appear more often, they become professionals in committing crimes. I'm simply not going to say that's the goal of this government. No, but very little or maybe not enough, but maybe nothing does anything about doing it. Here, lately, we've had a situation for those who escape from prison to commit more serious crimes during the night or in a few days. What about those, I only have to do with one sentence, I don't want to open anybody's wound, what about the young man who committed suicide at the KPD in Valjev? After his mother, I guess that son was an only child, had trouble establishing the status of the boy, that the man was no longer alive. Will this commission be able to, and will have enough strength and desire, professional experience to do something like that and not have such things happening to us? I remind you once again, article 65. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions makes it perfectly clear what kind of relationship an organized society should have, even to those who have committed crimes. Sometimes there's a man out there, there's a big difference between a crime committed with imagination or indiscretion. Very often, it can happen that every man, we go from a simple fact, which is a driver, can one day be found at the Department of Criminal Sanctions. Does he deserve the same treatment as someone who's a multiple returnee? Well, of course he doesn't deserve it. It will be difficult to eliminate all these problems that this society and this government has, especially when it comes to judicial reform. Do you know what they said? We are not referring to this, we are not worth it at all, but to remind you, because you trust others more than yourself, but to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, who point to numerous irregularities and suggest how and how certain problems should be solved. Do you know what the International Association of Judges in Istanbul told us about the implementation of reforms in the judiciary? Even one resolution was devoted to judicial reform in Serbia. They say stopping the judge's office can't happen the way we did it. No, it can't. It's just that a judge's office can stop, or when he's led by a non-compliance procedure, he's no longer professional, he's no longer professional or anything like that, but under the conditions of great justice, when he doesn't want to do it in other conditions provided by law, and not the moment someone makes an assessment, someone who is reforming justice, makes an assessment of who our obedient judges and prosecutors are, and who aren't. Everything can be a condition and a reason to change, to fix, only those who are obedient are not, must never and can never be, it's a very dangerous thing. As a result, you often change some other laws, which dictate the existence of this or that number of judges. You first found and perhaps on the basis of some analysis you determined how many obedient judges you have, and then you entered the court network, and then you may have made both the jurisdiction of the primary and senior courts in accordance with the number of judges, and yet all that is in line with those who will listen to this regime or something else. It can't be done like that. That's not good, we point to that, but you're nothing. Every step you take is wrong. I have a habit of saying – but don't be too worried, because the previous one was also wrong, if it's for your comfort. Serbian citizens are not comforted by what you have done, which you will admit, they simply have no more patience for such a government, for such a reformed judiciary, they want something completely different. We Serbian radicals have never lied, and we will never, always tell them the truth, and we are ready at this point to deal with all the problems that you couldn't solve by now, and we will solve it much more successfully with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61531	It's been used 17 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He's the last registered speaker. Time at the disposal of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is 20 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61532	Thank you. You see, the Commission's own proposal, which should carry out and in the future exercise control and insight as to how the execution of criminal sanctions institutions and the position of those convicts is best spoken by the citizens' protector who says – whether Serbian prisoners and the prison system are as a car, registered for five, and in which there are eight, picturesquely declared Milos Jankovic, deputy citizens' protector, in charge of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. What is important in all countries with developed democracy, the opposition is located in certain institutions that must control power. This in parallel law clearly writes and it is justified, but only it cannot live in Serbia. It seems that the current government has a problem with her finding the opposition, going to prisons, and seeing the state of their faces are being condemned and their position there. You see, for the last 13 years, two laws on the resolution of criminal sanctions have been passed since 1998, several amendments and additions to the Criminal Penal Code have been passed, one on amendments and additions in 2001, then in 2009 and 2011. On such frequent changes and additions to the Law of Matters, the execution of criminal sanctions has been caused by chaos. The Law on the ratification of the option protocol with the Convention against Tortres and other cruel inhuman and humiliating penalties and proceedings was published in "The Official List", No 16/2005. A year, and it's due to take effect in 2006. In the preamble to this law, our country, as a member of this Protocol, confirms that torture is inhuman and other cruel and humiliating treatment and punishment forbidden, to constitute a serious violation of human rights. By Article 4 of this Protocol, our country has taken the obligation to allow visits by the mechanisms referred to in Article. 2. and 3. any place under its jurisdiction and exactly where they are or may be found persons deprived of liberty, either under orders issued by a state authority, on its incentive or with its consent or consent, in the text of the detention institution. These visits will be undertaken, as our country has taken over, in order to strengthen, if necessary, the protection of these faces against torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating penalties and procedures. What was the goal of this law? It is in force, and the objective of this Protocol, which we have ratified and confirmed, is to establish a system of regular visits, therefore, regular, and not after three years, where persons are deprived of liberty by independent international and domestic bodies, for the purpose of prevention, torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating penalties and procedures, as provided for in Article 1. I'm asking a question and asking the current government to answer, let them tell us who he is and when he's given control and insight into the situation in our criminal correctional institutions where the convicts support the sentence? For years there has been no such thing, I can only say that the Guardian of Citizens who has numerous objections has called and has indicated that it must be interrupted with current practices and other ways and procedures towards convicted persons. What this protocol provides, and what our country needs to provide for citizens in this situation, is to give recommendations to competent authorities to improve the treatment and position of persons deprived of liberty. In the provisions of Article 20 of the Protocol, the State is obliged to provide national mechanisms with the following: access to all data on the number of persons deprived of liberty in detention institutions, such as the number of institutions, access to all data on the treatment of these persons in the conditions of their detention, access to all detention institutions and their institutions and facilities, the possibility of having private talks with persons deprived of liberty without the presence of witnesses, either personally or with the translator if necessary, which means that the prisoner chooses, the freedom to choose the places they wish to talk to (that means competent institutions, competent international organisations and the competent authorities of our country), the right to have contacts with the subcommittee for prevention and supply of data on the situation in those institutions. As a member of this protocol, our country has pledged to publish annual reports on national mechanisms for the prevention of persons in prison. Do we have a report like that? We don't. Did we get it about d 2006? We didn't. Are we going to get it on a regular basis? We won't. And if we get it, they'll just be numbered and the order reports, forged. The order to declare the Law on ratification of the Open Protocol was declared in 2005. Respect for the rights of persons deprived of liberty in Serbia, as it has been published more in means of public information, and the Protector himself warns and finds out – the state of protection and respect for the rights of persons deprived of liberty in Serbia is extremely unsatisfactory, given the number of complaints referred to the Citizens' Protector. The problem of protecting the rights of persons deprived of liberty is well known and it must be urgently disclosed and reformed. The largest number of complaints and complaints were filed by persons on the execution of the prison detention and detained persons, directly or through the proxies, or defenders, and some complaints were filed and forwarded by NGOs, other state authorities and independent bodies. The most common complaints about health care are catastrophic. When it comes to health care, I've had information for years, because I've had the opportunity to defend persons who are primarily detained or convicted and who are being investigated. As it seemed in practice, one doctor was determined and he, as a doctor in a county prison, provided medical services, issued medications, and examined for 10, 15 years, without being a prisoner or prisoner having the right to choose a doctor. In the new Code of Criminal Procedure, this is the novel we did in the federal government in 2000 and 2001, which was adopted, we predicted, which is a good solution, that the detained person is entitled to a medical examination, has the right to choose a doctor. It was in that past, in Broz's day, when he was a doctor assigned by order of the UDBA. One doctor is appointed and he's there for 15, 20 years or retirement. You there have no opportunity to get adequate treatment, to have the treatment you need, and it has caused great suffering and problems for people who have found themselves in such a situation. What are the other problems with the prisoner's accommodation? The accommodation, as well as the hygiene of great objections, to the nutrition of great objections. Classification, transfer, right to work, right to notification, to legal aid, wrong conduct of procedures, unfounded deprivement of freedom, and in some cases there has been evidence of torture, or abuse. The citizen's protector has made recommendations in several cases and has put forward a proposal to remove the gap, and this is the MUP. What's the problem with keeping your face? When do they retain their faces based on the resolution and authority of the Internal Affairs Authority? You have the next problem that police departments don't have the opportunity to provide adequate rooms to keep their faces. These are rooms that have no water, no company, no electricity, no bed, so in relation to face retention, there is a big problem, but no one has seen it, only police managers who point out, but it is not enough to give authority or predict the possibility to determine the detention of 48 hours, or retention. Police administrations need to provide material resources to provide adequate rooms in which the detained person will be able to stay. There have been frequent cases in the past, and we've had fatalities precisely because there were no adequate rooms. Therefore, funding should also be provided to the police in such a way that any police administration that has the right to retain or if a detention solution is reached, in which case the police administration will provide material resources so that there will be no breach of basic human rights here as well. Lack of accommodation facilities for police detention, because these rooms are not adequate. The special detention facilities do not exist in a large number of police stations, persons deprived of liberty are detained by offices or are placed on the orders of a public prosecutor in detention units, mostly districts. In the event of a suicide of a detained person at the police station of Chukarica, did you hear that we had such a case, a suicide was committed in that room, which was absolutely a lack above all room and control. The detention measure shall be carried out in detention units of the Office for the execution of sanctions which are insufficient to accommodate an existing number of detainees. The detention facility in many institutions has been overpopulated. There's no room for these people to live normally and to provide them with those rights. So, Serbia has taken the obligation, it has been ordered to do what needs to be done. In practice, however, we have a big problem. As far as we're concerned, the media has also announced that there are problems in our prisons, that there are a lot of crime and corruption and that there are groups that even hold parallel power in prisons. According to the report and according to our information, the Citizens' Protector, Mr Jankovic, currently holds 10,900 convicts in Serbian prisons, is the 2009 report, and by the end of 2009, the number has increased to 12,000. In such a prison squirm, more and more frequent mutual conflicts with prisoners and with guards. Experts warn that the situation is extremely catastrophic. Even the media who informed say that many were also armed with stangs, machetes, daggers, and that for days these prison groups terrorised even those who work in prisons, prison staff. Sources say prison gangs control black stock exchanges in prisons, from cigarettes to food from packages to drugs, as Mr Krasic, Verica Radeta, Munjic and Mr Sreto Peric spoke of. So, we point to many problems, through food from packages to drugs, and there are all coins in circulation, from money through slave labor to sexual services, then to wash socks, etc. One prisoner said that the hardest thing for those who have no one outside is that they fall into debt. In prison, narcotics are the most profitable business because a large number of convicts are more or less dependent on psychoactive substances. Of course, drug trafficking is impossible without intermediaries and between the outside world and prisoners and drug dealers, and this applies to strictly banned mobile phones and alcohol. The former warden of one prison states he knows colleagues who have long used prisoners to build houses and cottages. Prisoners corrupt even prison officials to get a job and cut off long prison days. Sometimes convicts used to get paid, learn trades, but some managers shut down the economy because of the commission they take from prison firms supplying food. You remember years ago that there was also a major problem at the Justice Department when it was exactly what I'm talking about, and that's supplying food prisons, and then production and farms of prisons that supplied certain leaders from that government, and I have to say in the end. In prisons, informal authorities, prisons that decide the fate of convicts and convicts are conducted very often, three of them are in solitary confinement, no lights. You see, does it believe that this commission, I think, has the right place for the Justice Committee to take appropriate measures and go around all prisons and institutions and thus make sure, because this commission, this is one party commission, is free to say that one party commission, so this Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61533	National MP, please be more careful with qualifications for members of the electoral commission, as you would not like anyone to qualify you as one party or opposition or authority during the session of the Assembly if neither of the fellow Members proposed by the Commission would like to do so. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure, treating the candidates, at least from that point of view that is not permitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61534	Loneliness and isolation is a 19th-century measure, as a cell system, in prisons create an atmosphere of fear and unrest and extortional reactions that scare convicts and people are known to be in fear to take over so-called. preventive attacks in order to protect them. It is unacceptable that in prisons, in the same room, there are prisoners who are sentenced to the minimum sentence of prison, after several months with those convicted of murder and other serious crimes, to 40 years in prison. It's nowhere in Europe. They sort, so prisoners, a man who committed a traffic violation is found at the maintenance of a prison sentence and you see he will share fate and will be in an atmosphere where someone was convicted of multiple murder, multiple robbery, for a serious crime, etc. I said prisons are as crowded as in Subotica, Novi Sad, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Pancheva and Dr. Prisoners have a special problem with heating, with the hygiene I was talking about, but you see in the parallel real problem of solving criminal sanctions, you have in a parallel right hanging noose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61535	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61536	And an electric chair, not to speak any further, but it's famous in the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61537	Before we continue to work, the notice of confirming the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, and for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP, to fill a vacant seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Vasic, elected from the SPS electoral list -- a single Serbia's PUPS. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Vasic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to join us in our work. Continuing the session, I ask, since a list of MPs who wanted to take part in the debate is exhausted, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has a word. Time available for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61538	Just for the public's sake, to say that there has been a obligation to form this commission since 1 January 2006. So we are in the sixth year where the National Assembly has failed to comply with its legal obligation. And without the greater strangers, it seems to me that once or twice a year, the Justice Committee has arranged visits to some prisons, all of this was a kind of substitution of this legal obligation. However, in the follow-up to this argument of yours, we see that the European Commission's recommendation was the main reason why this decision came up. So no one bears responsibility for not fulfilling a legal obligation for six years. However, when the legal obligation is not fulfilled, it can be seen through the fingers, if the recommendation comes from Brussels, then the blood must be sprayed everywhere, it must be fulfilled. But let's get back to the subject. There's nothing new here, all that SRS MPs have pointed out to the state of our prisons, it's more or less like that for years, and it's supposed to come to terms with standards, and to remind you, with the standards of the United Nations, the standards that mean, the diet table, the minimum hygiene conditions, the sanitary conditions, the appearance of rooms, those building standards per person, etc. Why? Because from the age of 70, 80, he finally beat the point of view that the execution of a criminal sanction, or being in prison, is a measure of resociation, rather than a retaliatory act. And when the ambience, the conditions in some space where it's being executed, where the sentence of prison is maintained so bad, then we can talk more about retribution than resociation, given that in that micro environment there is also a special mental, mental state and a special environment. You see, when we said we were doubting this composition of the commission, I have to make it clear. You know, you can have the latest Mercedes, but he'll just look like a Mercedes until it turns on. If you've put a fice's engine in there, it's not a Mercedes, or a motocultivator. So we have a nice Mercedes that we're showing abroad, that we're showing NGOs, the United Nations, we're taking pictures next to that Mercedes, and when someone says turn it on to drive a circle, I have some technical problems. These are our technical problems. So the outside smoother, and on the inside, that's not it. But I would now draw attention to some other details that are important in the context of considering the execution of criminal sanctions. You know, if people are arrested who are said to be the best judges and are at the top of Serbia's judiciary, if we still have unfinished cases with some judges, like the bankruptcy mob not to talk any further. Although we believe what's in the paper is the reason for this new arrest. I'm telling you 50% of the judges can be arrested on that basis, too. There's no principled difference, if that's true in the newspaper that's written. I'm more concerned about this new situation. We now have a prisoner bracelet and we have a bracelet for whoever supports the prison sentence. Since I know you very well, and believe me, DOS has been in power since 2000, DOS was also in 2006, as it was in 2011. You've only just joined a commitment since 2006. So it had to hit something hard on the side. What's this commission gonna do? Here's to infallibly telling you what he's going to do. The first report will be extremely objective. It will point to problems of accommodation, hygiene, overbooking, conditions etc., etc. Why? To tell the financials from abroad, here's the problem we're all facing. You need to make some money. You need a little money to make money, since justice reform is also funded from abroad. It's so beautifully conducted that now you can VSS, the state's major prosecutor, get whoever you want, put either in the paper on a pillar of shame or really be something. Now, look, we're talking about one media effect of something, the essential thing, we're a long way from finding out anything. What happens if, on the basis of the recommendations made by this commission, a new proposal comes out because of overbooking, so that some laws or sublegal regulations change, so that the first DOS fighters from October 2000, get out of jail, get bracelets and stay home. You know, I still don't think that Big Man had to be in jail. He sacrificed himself for you to come to power. How do you pay him back? The bracelet, it's a little something for you. There's a minimum of something you can do, so a Mercedes with a fine engine, it's today's theme, and that's why none of the MPs in the opposition on this committee should be. They must be all MPs of power, and it's an honor to judge by these résumés, and Judith has some expertise here, but what she could...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61539	People's MP, I've already warned my colleague, and now I warn you, that you are carefully and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure qualified other MPs, because you would not allow yourself to be said to be no opposition either. So, please, really carefully about when you talk about any member, or what the proposal is for a commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61540	I'm really sorry you didn't praise me, I praised Mrs. Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61541	People's MP, I have warned you for the first time, and after that, I am forced to give you criminal measures, because you do not treat other people's MPs politely, your fellow Members, in terms which you are, absolutely certain, that you would not suffer them or ask the chairman to protect you, that someone offends you, that you are no opposition or opposition, or that you would seek a replica. Therefore, please, for the last time on colleagues in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61542	You don't need to worry. I think very well of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61543	People's MP, I've warned you twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61544	I said I like everything about my colleagues. I don't know what hurt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61545	Are you insisting on giving a warning measure or can we finish this by returning to the agenda topic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61546	I don't know why I'd be forbidden to praise Mrs. Judith, who's a good lawyer, she was a good lawyer, she knew this matter, I don't know why you won't let me compliment her, because I want to commend my wife as a professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61547	Do you insist on giving the warning measure due to deafening the chairman's remarks?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61548	If you want to make me criticize her, I don't want to criticize her. I want to praise Judith Popovic as a good lawyer, former judge, a good lawyer who knows this matter. If there's something I've done wrong... Cut it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61549	People's MP, you'll see where you're wrong with the stenogram. It is no big deal that you do not listen to the chairman's warnings, it is terrible that you think that all of us, including the public, have not heard the qualifications you say irresponsiblely in the opposite of the rules of the Rules of Procedure on who the opposition is or who is not the opposition. I ask you on the subject of the agenda, with respect for the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61550	Mrs. Comic, you obviously didn't understand. The opposition is not an institution, it's a set of more parties and I didn't even take advantage of it as an opportunity to explain it to you. I am a member of an opposition party in this National Assembly and I have the right to state an opinion that does not appeal to the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61551	People's messenger, I give you your first warning. You have no right to say anything here against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61552	I'm really sorry, Judith, that I can't praise you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61553	Thank you. Whether any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups or anyone who has not exercised their right under Article 96 are present. Rules of Procedure, reporting for word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the day to vote, and we have exhausted the proposed agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Session. Since the National Assembly concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Session in 2011, and the debate on the points of the 13th, 12th and 11th Extraordinary Session in 2011, pursuant to Article 87(5), paragraph 5. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday, 26 September 2011, starting at 13.00, as the day for voting on all agenda points of the session of the 14th, 13th, 12th and 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly, which was discussed. At 13.00 hours, we will begin voting on the 13th extraordinary session, and when the vote on all amendments is completed, both in principle and in detail on the items of the 13th Extraordinary Session agenda, we will continue with the items of the 12th agenda and the 14th and 11th extraordinary session. During the vote, breaks will be set, if necessary, in accordance with Article 87 and voting day during the day for the vote of the National Assembly session. So the vote is at 1:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 11.55 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61554	We move to a decision on the 14th extraordinary session, i.e. on a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, before we move to a decision, I remind you that under Article 105 of Article 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly is also performing other electoral powers with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We'll have to determine the quorum first. There are 129 of us at this point. I remind you once again that the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft decision, before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 of Article 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly is also performing other electoral powers with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Of the 134 MPs, all 134 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the session agenda and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session ends at 1800 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61555	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY 13th extraordinary session on 26 September 2011. year (Fifth Day of Work) (The session began at 13.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61556	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the National Assembly of the Republic in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members to insert their identification cards into the Members' e-systems. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we are established to have 132, and there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Public Property. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on public property to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, 132 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since we accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that the amendments have been drawn by the MPs of the People's Parliament Susan Grubjesic to the members 72, 83, 84 and Zoran Kasalovic to the members of 29 and 34. It's a bill of law. The draft law has become an integral part of the amendments submitted by the Government to Article 3, to the title of Articles 10 and 10, and to Articles 18, 19, 22, 26, 27, 29, 31, 33, 34, 42, 43, 47, 54, 72, 83 and 84. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. Please make a statement. Of 143 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted this amendment in particular. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, it's 104. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, it's 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 16 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 14 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Đura Muchenski. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, nine are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Dragan Markovic – Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic together submitted the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 18 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. During the examination of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted this amendment in particular. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 100 are in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 18 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 10th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 28 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Balint Pastor. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 32 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted the 10th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, six voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostrash, Aleksandra Jerkov, Oleg Papug and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment shall be appointed by the Members of the Parliament of the People of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, the vote was 106. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to section two, titled above article 18 and Article 18. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment title to the 18th and 18th members of the Parliament. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 24 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 18. The amendment was brought together by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fermond. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 26. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, the vote was 10. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 91 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. To Article 21. The amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 22. The amendment was brought together by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fermond. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment with correction was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted the amendment in particular. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 85 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarcic submitted to the 28th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 12 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 29 and 29. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, nine MPs voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 18 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, four voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 30 and 30. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 18 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 19 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, nine MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 10 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 18 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 12 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 36th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 12 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 11 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 38 and 38. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 41 and 41. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 110 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, 123 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Milorad Buha submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 45 and 45. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 45th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 54th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Munir Poturak and Vitomir Mihajlovic. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 54th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 56 and 56. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 57th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 58 and 58. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 64th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted this amendment in particular. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 110 for. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the 64th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to article 71. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 72nd Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Balint Pastor. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovač and Arpad Fremond submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 13 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarcic submitted together to the 72nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 72nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic submitted together to the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the amendment of the 73rd. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 19 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 75th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 75th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 27 for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 76. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted the amendment to Article 76. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia, submitted the same text to the 79th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 80th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 82 and 82. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 16. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 82 and 82. Please make a statement. Of the 155 MPs, 110 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 106 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 84th Amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Zoran Kasalovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 110 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public property in general. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 133 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public property. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE OF THE REFERRED IMPLEMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the motion to vote on the return law of the seized property and the compensation, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 156 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. By written amendment, MP Suzana Grubjesic was withdrawn to members 18, 23 and 66 and to the Government on Article 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment to the name of the Bill of Law, the title of Chapter 1, the title above Articles 1 and 1. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 4pm. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 19 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlajko Senic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 26 for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 6 for. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 34 for. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 155 MPs, 136 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 156 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, 7 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, 19 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlajko Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, 41 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 12 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Sheriff Hamzagic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 22 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 19 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, three voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 46 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 and all the members mentioning the words "the Agency", the amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 22 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 11 voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Žika Gojkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 27 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 25 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 42 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 17. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlajko Senic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 38 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 30 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 154 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 28 MPs voted for Mr Gojkovic's amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. During the search in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment with the correction. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment with the correction. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 39 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 126 voted for the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, 10 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 153 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, they voted five. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, they voted five. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, 19 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the title above article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment. Please plead. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpard Fremond. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, they voted four. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, they voted 19. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Please plead. Of the 153 MPs, they voted four. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please plead. Of the 152 MPs, it voted 22. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please plead. Of the 152 MPs, they voted 19. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Zika Gojkovic. Please plead. Of the 152 MPs, they voted five. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Please plead. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlajko Senic submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. Please plead. Of the 152 MPs, he voted 31. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpard Fremond. Please plead. Of the 151 MPs, they voted four. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 8th amendment. Please plead. Of the 151 MPs, 40 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic tabled an amendment proposing that the title and new Article 8a be added after Article 8. Please plead. Of the 150 MPs, the vote voted seven. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 37 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, 41 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, they voted four. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Jankovic. Please plead. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please plead. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please plead. Of the 151 MPs, they voted 11. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, seven voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please plead. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please plead. Of 145 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please plead. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 14. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the second, the title above Article 15 and Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, four for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, six for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, three for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of section one, the title above Article 16 and Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, nine for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, six for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Srdjan Mikovic. During the search in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, for 107. The amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 19 for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 109 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 18th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, nine for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 148 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, 23 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradovic, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, 18 were voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 11 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Section 2, the title above Article 22 and Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, 19 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 21 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 147 MPs, nine voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Section 3, the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the government to vote. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted the title above Article 25 and Article 25 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 19 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, nine voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 25th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, 17 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, seven voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title section 4, title above article 27, and article 27, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Oedipus of the Sheriffs. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Pesic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, seven voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 20 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, 11 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Bozovic. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, 20 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 28th and Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, 107 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia and joint MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradovic, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejcic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new chapter two and a new article 29a be added after Article 29. Of 152 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. At the title of Title 3 above Article 30 and Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Algurdic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 28 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 31 and a member of the 31st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradovic, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Oleg Papug and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 17 for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, five for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlajko Senic submitted to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above the 35th and member of the 35th amendment, in the same text, MPs Petar Jojic and Zika Gojkovic submitted. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Zoran Ostojic, Bojan Djuric and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, 115 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 36 and article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 38 and article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, for 18. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Premond submitted together to the 38th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, for six. The amendment was not accepted. Under the title of Title 4 above the article 39th and Article 39th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 40th and member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one has been accepted for the Amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 40th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 152 MPs, 18 for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Premond have jointly submitted to the amendment. Of 147 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 145 MPs, 110 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 44 and article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 45 and article 45 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Please make a statement. Of 144 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zika Gojkovic tabled an amendment proposing that a title be added above members and a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 46 and article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 49 and 49 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 146 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 50th and the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 147 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The title of the 5th title above the 51st and the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 51st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 52 and 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 148 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 53 and article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Please make a statement. Of 149 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 54 and article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Prescrib Group submitted a title above members of 54th and a member of the 54th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 55 and article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Prescrib Group submitted to the title above article 55th of the 55th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 56th and the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 57th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 58th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 59 and article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 149 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the 6th title above the 60th and the 60th Amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, 17 for. The amendment was not accepted. At the title of the 7th title above the 61st and the 61st Amendment were submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 62 and article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Spajic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, 22 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. Please make a statement. Of 149 MPs, 15 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, two for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, four for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 63 and article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group tabled a title above members of 63th and a member of the 63rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 64 and article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 150 MPs, 19 are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 64th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 150 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above the 65th and the 65th Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Shami, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Milica Radović and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, for 19. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 151 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that membership and member 65 be added after article 65. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, for 87. I understand the amendment has been accepted. To the title above Article 66 and Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 153 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on the return law of the seized property and the compensation, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, it's 117. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the return of the seized property. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda points of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I'm setting a break until 3:30 p.m., when we're going to report on the items of the 12th session agenda. (The session is closed at 3:15 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61557	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY 12th extraordinary session on 26 September 2011. year (seventh day of work) (The session began at 15.40 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61558	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the decision-making agendas of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2011. Please re-establish the quorum. Insert your identification cards into the electronic system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 128 MPs in the hall, i.e. that we have most of the total number of MPs and there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on criminal proceedings to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. The bill was voted 123. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Having adopted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs Milos Aligrudic and Milica Radovic, by written means, have withdrawn the amendments to Article 2. The bill's proposal, and during a search of the bill in particular, MP Srdjan Mikovic, withdrew the amendment to Article 343. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the MPs Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 93, Zlata Đeric and Srdjan Spasojevic to members 233 and 608 with corrections, Srdjan Mikovic to members 305 and 410 and Milorad Buha to member 404. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Proposer Snezana Malovic's representative, during a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, six voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of section 1 above Article 21 and the title above Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic.. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the title above Article 22 of the amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic submitted the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovanovic. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 39 was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 40 of the amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 51st amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 68th amendment. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 69 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to Article 69 of the 1st Amendment. Please plead. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 71st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 71st amendment. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 72nd amendment. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Art. 157 and 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 73. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the amendment. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Prescrib Group submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 75th amendment. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 76th amendment. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 92. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Please plead. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 96. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 98. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 101st member and member of the 101st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 103. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 104. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 105th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 106th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 106th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 109th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 113. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to article 114. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 115 and 115 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment to Article 115. Proposer Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 116 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 119. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 124 by MP Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 124. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 125 and article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Articles 126 and 126 of the amendment, MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 133th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above Articles 134 and 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Paric to the title above article 135 and to article 135. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above article 136, MP Milova Radovanovic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 137th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic to Article 149. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 158th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 167. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 172. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 175. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 179th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. On Subsection E, and on Articles 183, 184, 185, 186 and 187, MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to article 191. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to article 193. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 195. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 204 by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 205. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment to Article 211. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 212. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 216. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 227th amendment includes a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 231st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 133 MPs, 108 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 231st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 231st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 233. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 235. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 285th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 286. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 287th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 287th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted the amendment to Article 288. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 289 by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 290. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 291 and Article 291 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 292 and Article 292 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic to Article 293. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 294. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric proposed that in Article 296, 297, 297, 299, 300, 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310, 311 and 312 words: "public prosecutor" in the given fall replace the words "investigation judge" in the corresponding decline. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 297th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 130 MPs, two for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 300th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 300th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 130 MPs, three for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 303. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, six are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 16, Section 2 and Articles 313 to 330 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 313rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 313rd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, seven are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 331. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, two are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 336th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligurdic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 348. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 349th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Marija Bulgarianic. Please plead. Of the 131 MPs, nine are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milis Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 351st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 357th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 363. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 364 by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 366 and Article 366 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 367. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 369th amendment to the same text were submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic and Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 370. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 378. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 382. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 384. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 389. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 409th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 415. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 415. Please make a statement. Of the 132 people's ambassadors, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 424 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 425th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic and Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 433rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 438th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 441. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 442 and 442 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 445th and 445th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 449. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 459th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 20 and on members from 495 to 520, MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 563rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Bojan Djuric. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, eight are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 608. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. Of the 132 MPs, 129 voted for the bill in general. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Criminal Procedure. We move to a statement on the second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PARICAL PROCEDURE. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on litigation, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 129 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the People's MPs: Petra Jojic to Article 10, together Jovan Palalić, Milice Radović, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudić, members 13, 19, 21, 62, 63, 70, 77 and 108, Radiše Ilic to Article 13, together Zlata Đerić and Srđan Spasojevic to members 34 and 35, Dusan Marić to member 40, Vlada Milojković to member 71, Srdjan Milivojevic to member 85, Nenad Konstantinović to member 85, Zoran Popović to member 89, together Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond to members 95 and 374, Marine Toman to member of Mr 148, Gordana Čomić to member 85, Srđan Popović to member of the group of the group of the town of the town of Mirnović, Mr Mirko and Mr Mirko Štrić. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Premond. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, for four. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of the 131st MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 132 ambassadors, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, for six. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palaic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 67th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 68th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 69th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 70th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Nikola Krpić and Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted together to the 77th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. The 77th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th amendment was submitted by MP Sveto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Dušanka Plecevic submitted to the 81st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 85th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 85th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, 116 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 85th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Nikola Krpić and Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted together to the 85th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 91st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 92, MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 101st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 101st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 101. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, 111 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 103. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 108th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 119th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Amendment 121. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the 128th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 130th amendment in the same text. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic and a group of 21 MPs in the same text together submitted to the 136th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 140th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 140th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 141st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 141st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to article 143. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 149th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 149. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 149. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 153rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 154. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 161. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 168. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 14 and Articles 180 to 185, MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the 188th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 193. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 219. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 222. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Rule 222. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the particulars search. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, 103 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 229. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 230, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to Rule 230. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the particulars search. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 245. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 245th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 253rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 133 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 254. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 260th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 261st Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 261st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic to Article 264. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 269. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic to Article 269. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 270th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 271st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 272nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 277th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 280th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the 283rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 294. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 311 by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 314. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 355th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Petar Jojic and Vlatko Ratkovic, together with Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group, submitted an amendment to the same text. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 383. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 403rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 403rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 403rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 403rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 403rd amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, nine for. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration submitted an amendment to 403. Please make a statement. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 404. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 407th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 407. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 421. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 426th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 426th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 468th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted to Article 468 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Tomman. Please make a statement. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted On Article 470, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 475th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 476th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 479th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 480. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the particulars search. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, 103 for. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 483. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the particulars search. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, 105 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 485th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 485th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 487th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 135 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 508th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 135 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Dear People's MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment, with the correction of MP Djorda Milicevic to Article 85. The proposal for a law arises in the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of that amendment, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendment adopted with the text of the draft law. I ask that the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee meet immediately and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report. I'm setting a break by 5:30. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 129 of us, or that we can continue to work. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 378. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 134 MPs, 123 voted yes. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Since we are done deciding on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law on litigation in general to vote. Of 135, 134 MPs voted for the bill as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on litigation. We move on to – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Business Secrets. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on the protection of business secrets in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 123 MPs voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal became an amendment of the People's MPs: Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic to Article 1, Dragan Stevanović to Article 4, Natasha Jovanovic to Article 7, Zoran Krasic to Article 11, Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 13 and Vjerica Radite to Article 14. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please, we need to check the quorum. Please insert your cards into the e-system MPs. We can keep working. Please state the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 7. At its meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, 117 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Djuric, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, submitted to the 14th amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted an amendment to Article 14. At its meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of business secrets. The Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 4 of this Decision, are provided for a feedback. Please let us know if we accept. This is about a proposal for a decision on work compensation for the National Council for Higher Education. We are moving to the 5th item of the agenda – the proposal for a work compensation in the NATIONAL SCHOOL COUNCIL needs to be made known on the basis of Article 4 of this Decision. Of the 126 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has declared itself a return point. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the compensation for work in the National Council for Higher Education. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move on to point 6 - Proposal for a Decision on work compensation in the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check and this Decision provides for a declaration of return. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that we have voted back, in accordance with this decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the compensation for the work of the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 12 September 2011, at 12 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mico Rogovic, at a session on 15 September 2011, at 15 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Please take a look at the cards. We'll have to re-establish the quorum. Please place your cards in the e-system Members' Units. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 15 September 2011, at 15 hours and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 19 September 2011, at 16 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda points of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session ends at 17.55 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61560	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY 11th extraordinary session on 26 September 2011. year (Fourth Day of Work) (The session began at 1800 hours. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-26-0.u61561	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work by deciding on the agenda points of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2011. Please re-establish the quorum. Insert your identification cards into the electronic system units. Dear People's MPs, business conditions have not been met so we can continue our work. The day to vote on the 11th extraordinary session of the Assembly in 2011 will be subsequently notified. Thank you for your cooperation.
