ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64826	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. To accurately determine the number of persons present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I find that there are 85 or 87 of us, and there are working conditions and we can continue. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286, of our Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) National MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64827	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I will address two questions, one Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Rasim Ljajic, Minister Ljajic, and the other Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic. The Democratic Party of Serbia will soon approach amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, which was complemented last year, but at the expense of the refugee population and their, in particular, property rights. Namely, there are a number of refugees who have received packages in construction material as donations from international organisations, with municipalities donating land and infrastructure. The law prescribed that after ten years of staying in those houses, refugees have the right to enter the property of these houses. By supplementing the law, this last year, refugees are required to buy that house to become their owners. The DSS believes there is no basis for this, as it is donations by both municipalities and international organisations. It is necessary to mention that refugees have also invested their work and effort in the construction of these houses. The second category of refugees received apartments by system key in hand and a ransom that should be paid is too high, even higher than the money averaged by the average Serbian citizens on average to make housing rights become property. We believe that Serbia's discharge in villages and cities where these refugees have been given apartments, there are no significant employment opportunities, so we believe that a minimum, almost symbolic price for ransom should be given in order to buy them. It's devastating what you can see, and I've had the opportunity to go around both Belgrade and all over Vojvodina, in Secnje, Zitiste, in various municipalities, drastic examples of this, where the refugee population complains about what this government has brought. To bridge now on this second issue, God forbid Serbs from the north of Kosovo become refugees. As Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic comments on military Minister Dragan Sutanovac's statement, which says about German Chancellor Angela Merkel's stance, that Serbia should abolish its institutions in the north of KIM and that this cannot be done with one cut. What did he put the accent on, one cut? Do you need more cuts? What does that mean exactly? What kind of cut is that - with a surgical scalpel or maybe with a stick? Does this mean that the military minister may propose a certain intervention in order to prevent, or annul, institutions in the north of KIM, which are still, fortunately, but I'm afraid, as you have set out, that it will not be under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a long time? Secondly, I'm terribly interested in what the prime minister of this country is going to say. Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic says Serbia will never give up Resolution 1244, but pay attention to the issue of Kosovo's representation at regional performances. Furthermore, the resolution is the last international act guaranteeing the protection of human rights and life in Kosovo. Good God, what the President of the Republic is talking about, what Resolution 1244 is. All you have to do is take it in your hands, look at what it says. Among other things, the resolution says that it is important to worry about organising and overseeing the development of temporary institutions of democratic and autonomous self-government to a political solution, and there is no sign of a political solution. (President: Time. Just finish your sentence, Mr. Tomic. ) It further writes, taking full account of the Rambuje Agreement and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ and other countries in the region. What are we talking about? Whether Kosovo is Serbia and according to Resolution 1244 and the Constitution, or whether we will deal with ephemeral matters, as Boris Tadic suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64828	Mr. Buha, I'd like you to move the book in front of you. Please move the book. Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64829	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question to the government is very brief. After 9 December, does the government and the president of the state leave the policy that they have led so far – both Europe and KIM? As far as Serbian citizens are concerned, they have made it clear – KIM, and as far as Europe is concerned, most citizens support the position of the SRS, that Europe is not our priority. However, statements by some ministers and the country's president himself have been saying in recent days that we have sold KIM for this crazy trip to the EU. Mr Jeremic, foreign minister at the debate – Serbia and the EU said that so far in the influential centres of power he has not considered any other option for Kosovo, except that Serbia accepts Ahtisaari's plan and eventually recognises Kosovo's independence in the full and formal sense of the word. He said Serbia could not achieve EU membership candidate status in December without explicitly giving up Resolution 1244. Gentlemen, you are all aware that Resolution 1244 guarantees Serbia's sovereignty in KIM. Defence Minister Sutanovac says the issue of abolishing the parallel structures in Cosmet is a political obstacle to obtaining an EU bid, which must be accessed analytically, but cannot be done with one cut. He wants the defence minister to say that Serbia's KIM institutions should be phased out gradually. By abolishing Serbia's institutions, Serbia itself is being abolished at KIM. President Tadic is already speaking in his degree about Serbia's efforts to only provide conditions for the life of Serbs at KIM. One of the latest events these days that followed all the means of information, which is the arrest of Zvonko Veselinovic, also says that the state institutions of Serbia are doing the same thing the institutions of Thaci's government are doing, that is, on the same mission. It's about Zvonko Veselinović as a criminal. However, no one points out the fact that Zvonko Veselinovic is known as the leader of the bridge defender on Ibra. Zvonko Vesenovic survived two assassinations of Thaci's murderers, but it appears he has come into a situation to turn his country back on him. Zvonko Veseninovic also led the defenders of bridges and the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica on this occasion. By removing it, it simply opens up the possibility for KFOR and EULEX to do what they planned to do in installing Ahtisaari's plan and in the north of KIM. It is mean when it is said in the means of informing that Zvonko Veselinovic has become rich by not paying VAT. All of you, gentlemen, you know that until two months ago, no one paid VAT for KiM, because by the government's decision, KIM was released from VAT and it was only introduced two months ago. So, the excises that all citizens, and especially all the businesses with KIM paid Serbia, are precisely the measures of this government that require that future excises be paid to the quasi state of KIM. I repeat the question once again, briefly and clearly – did this government and the president finally sell KIM for the sake of the EU road?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64830	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64831	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have often lost our political and political and every other time we discuss these topics that Mr Djelic spoke of, which are actually a picture or paradigm of a generally catastrophic state in our society. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health about a truly catastrophic situation that currently exists in the republican health system. The entire public had the opportunity to see to it a few weeks ago that at this point the accumulated and accumulated debts of the health system, in fact, health institutions, according to their suppliers, reached an impressive figure of 32 billion dinars, or 320m euros. I just don't know what was scarier in that news, the amount of debt our country, our society, our health insurance funds are facing at the moment, or the model the minister proposed at that time as a way to solve this problem. The health minister, as one of the models, offered a debt write-off system to suppliers. And that actually brings us back to another time, into that system that led to the collapse of the pension system, the health system, the education system, actually all the serious social systems in this country. This isn't 1975 or 1985. Debts made by the republican health system are not debts to social firms or other similar entities. These are debts to companies, some of them private, some mixed, some of which are purely state-owned, but it doesn't matter. I don't understand how a model write-off can solve a problem? So, in this situation, we would merely burden the collapse, the loss of jobs, the inability to organise production and trade in the following year, move formally from the country to some other parts of the economic system in this case. I would remind you that a few months ago we gave here a state guarantee that we will ultimately all pay out of the 70m-euro budget for the Galenika system, which before that was destroyed by non-domestic business, not only by the business exhibition of its leadership in the last few years, but by one essential problem, therefore, that we have a system that cannot produce and sell enough products and to collect those claims that would allow it to survive on the market. So my question is to get fully accurate information about what model service these huge debts are in the meantime agreed upon? The Director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute announced two days ago to the public that both sides, or all three sides, are, so to speak, very close to the agreement, and the health minister, for his part, that the arrangement will not burden the budget for next year. We enter the budget debate here on Monday, and I would like to have information or evidence before that that the delay or service of a 320m-euro debt will not burden the budget or taxpayers in the following year. This problem actually shows two of the key challenges that we are facing and for which neither this government nor this ruling coalition nor the governments before it can find a quality solution. It is actually an inability to answer two key problems: the first is how to reach this, for us still the ideal, for some other countries achieved the situation and on the other hand how will we lead the most efficient care of people? I also saw the President of Parliament who recently visited, along with the Minister of Health, a health institution and it seemed to me that you were very honest that in Serbia, in these circumstances, with such an inefficient system of health care and health insurance, there are patients in the first and second order. There is one category of patients that is on the social margin, for which there is not always much understanding, which is not treated adequately. Of course, there are many consequences and social prejudices and attitudes toward these people, but there is also this problem that is related to the fact that our system simply cannot withstand such a burden. In this country, just under three million people pay health insurance, and this system needs to meet the health needs of seven or seven and a half million people. Simply, it's the same matrix of problems as in the pension insurance system and everyone else. So, once again, my question is for the prime minister and the health minister – how is the problem of the 320m-euro debt being resolved at this time? I ask you to make sure that the Prime Minister gets this question and that he answers it, given that I have recently received an answer from the Minister of the Interior on the question that 50 of the biggest debtors currently owe to the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and I did not really ask that of the Minister of the Interior, nor did I expect an answer from him. When that non-payment situation gets to the police, it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64832	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64833	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, I want to put aside all those in Serbia who, for some reason, use banking services with one parliamentary question. I ask the NBS, as the institution responsible for the control of the work of business banks in the Republic of Serbia, to check how in practice the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which began to apply on 5 December of this year, and to examine the behaviour of certain banks in the period prior to its application. Believe me, when you enter any bank, you have a big problem with certain taxis. It's so-called. The sale of air, we all know well, and many banks, just before the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act, raised prices and so I ask the governor of the NBS – is he familiar with the fact? In banks with certain accounts, for example, between 200 and 300,000 accounts of users, this is between 10 million and 15 million dinars per month. These are extremely big problems that citizens and business people in Serbia face every day. I want to point out another very indicative phenomenon, which is that when you want any confirmation to take into the bank, let's say for the settlement of a tax account, or to notify something to a state body, the bank will charge you for it, depending on the bank, at least 500 dinars, and in some banks it's between 1,000 and 1,500 dinars. We've all met even at work with our parties, those who have such a situation, that even those bills that have no traffic, which need to deliver some confirmation, should pay at least 500 dinars, I say, and in some banks 1,000 to 1,500 dinars. I know that maybe the governor of the National Bank of Serbia will respond that eventually he is not in charge of such a business policy, he may also say that anyone who is not satisfied can change a bank and go to another bank, but there are some places in this Serbia where they do not have all the banks of their exposures, so Serbian citizens are forced to do the service exactly in such a bank, because that is the problem of the small environment. When large environments are involved and changes in permanent banks, it's huge paperwork and simply banks use such a feeling to the clients, that simply because of people like this, as I said, the air service doesn't want huge paperwork, they don't want to move and then pay one big price, which, believe me, is at that monthly level, if the bank has 200 clients, only this increase at the moment when we've passed the law is 10 to 15 million dinars. Once again, I would specifically like the National Bank of Serbia to examine the justification of the reasons that have motivated certain banks to pay for the service of current accounts for the so-called hit of current accounts, to raise 50 dinars in November, while the governor of the National Bank does not respond to the finding that the central bank is not in charge of the business policy of commercial banks, because Serbian citizens are not so resilient that they can invariably swallow these things, which happen daily in all areas of life. I believe that the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to protect users of financial services from this kind of business bank behaviour, otherwise it will definitely be confirmed that the image that has been created in the public long ago, that the National Bank of Serbia is only an exponent of the most influential banking circles that take care of their interest. You know, the citizens of Serbia are really too many stories and governors of the National Bank of Serbia, because whenever we see it practically, it can talk about some monetary protection, etc., which is his job, but most often we see it explaining to us what its income is. Serbian citizens, after all, do not have to be interested, Serbian citizens are interested in protecting themselves in everyday life practically from this kind of air of politics, air, as the people would say, vagrants, literally escalating people through this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64834	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64835	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. As part of our business rights, we're looking for word of state in Elid, Lower Dušnik, Gadjin Han municipality. Although this is not a lonely example, I am really asked that on behalf of the employees of the social company "Elid" from Donji Dušnik, which has existed since 1963 and has been involved in production, so I am insisting on electro-installing material, which is in an extremely difficult situation. They hired about 400 workers from 34 villages of Gajin Han municipality. They are largely in this type of employment, employment and income that they have managed to survive and thus simply prevent the migration of the population. But the privatisation of 2004 begins with problems. "Elid" was sold to the company "Nini", which is actually a private face -- Jovica Stefanovic, for 64 million dinars. At that moment, this is no exception at all, but the rule of privatisation at the time, "Elid" had in its warehouses finished goods worth 120 million dinars, raw materials worth 40 million dinars and claims for the sale of 50 million dinar goods. That means that "Elid," which was worth over 200 million dinars of its own resources, according to accounting records, warehouse cards and the real state of affairs, was sold for 64 million dinars. Under the sales contract, the company "Nini" was obliged to invest significant funds each year in improving production, as well as in purchasing new machinery. The machines were purchased, but as it seemed in many places. Driven to the factory the night before the announced and agreed arrival of a representative of the Privatisation Agency, and the next day after the control, if it can be called control, the machines from the hall have disappeared. Instead of investing in production and re-promatter, "Nini" burdened "Elid" with 27 million dinars of credit, which "Elit" later had to return as a legal entity. Today, he is being mortgaged on a loan from one of the business banks, which is Aik Bank. The rights of employees began to be threatened immediately after the agreement expired that there was no layoff of workers within two years of privatisation. At the end of that period, layoffs were automatically started without any compensation and without the implementation of the social programme. The dismissed worker had to sign a statement that all legal rights were denied voluntarily, and in particular the rights to severance, as well as all others that followed under the applicable Labour Act. For four years, workers are not paid a contribution to pension disability insurance and health insurance, and thus cannot exercise the right to health care. They had not received the money for two years, and while receiving it, it amounted to eight thousand dinars. Currently, there are about 130 workers on the list, who have been strikein' for six months because there is no production, no repro material, no payouts, no company management, and for all these years the owner hasn't spoken to the workers. A month ago, the workers of Elida strike in front of the municipality's assembly and after a strike, the president of the municipality went to the strikers for the first time and was promised to go to the finance minister, which was also done, where they were also promised to receive certain funds so that workers could initiate bankruptcy proceedings and were promised five thousand dinars of cash, but not a letter, not a dinar, not a single realized conclusion. The application of Elida workers comes down to the following – to speed up the bankruptcy process, to determine a bankruptcy manager who would start production, because there are still machines, people who want to work, and there is also an interest of some companies who want to start production. (President: five minutes. ) Please forward this question and that bankruptcy is not applied as an institute selectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64836	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for the word that they apply their right under Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Mirko Chikiriz and Aleksandra Jankovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Neboja Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, invited the sittings to be attended by Maja Lakicevic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Branislav Djelic, adviser to the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the 3rd item of the agenda – I would like to inform the National Assembly that our working day will pass in the opening and conclusion of discussions in detail on the following draft laws that we have concluded in the joint principle and common principled single search. There is just an opening of a debate in detail on the draft law amending the House Act. When we conclude this debate, a search will be opened in detail on the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis, and then a search into the details of the 5-9th item of the agenda, concluded by the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Insurance, which will be preceded by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Act on Economic Companies, the Proposal for a Law on the Procedure of Registration at the Agency for Commercial Registers and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Business Registers. If that requires the rhythm of our work, we'll be working after 1800 hours. The third item of the agenda of the Bill on Changes of the Law on Housing You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs Milorad Buha and Zoran Krasic on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You've received a report from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64837	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) and asked to say "user prices" for the words "referencing the rate of the NBS". Namely, this is the ninth law on which the SRS has tabled an amendment on the same basis. Our suggestion has been since the first law, the Budget Law, which first inaugurated this change in the way the values are calculated and we have also asked for the legal and financial term not to be used: 'user prices', but to be the'reference rate of the NBS' because it is both monetaryally and financially more adequate as a corrective factor. However, here is the ninth law and you reject us in our proper position to address this correction with the NBS reference rate because of the many problems we have raised in these nine laws. You've basically had to do it for your savings, and for one law to get rid of all of this in these nine laws, and on Monday we're going to start the tenth law where you're doing the same adjustments as you did in this law. It's amazing one thing, in the light of this bill you're saying that you want to address a number of requirements for the purchase of apartments. The question arises why almost the last days you adopt the law, and the corrective factor has started to apply since 1 January. Why didn't we get this law away before? Why didn't you one law solve everything that needed to be solved? This correction needs to be resolved by one law. Who knows how many laws we'll have in 2012 to amend, the same legal and technical and financial term. Here, it's been a year and you're saying that you want to resolve a number of demands from citizens to buy apartments. Why wasn't it done in January, February, etc.? It is obvious that he does not want to go out to meet the citizens, because if you wanted to help the citizens in real terms, you would have settled it in January, February or March, when a regular session begins. What do you say next in your explanation? Change the way you pay. Does changing the corrective factor and replacing a specific legal-financial term make a change in the payment method? It's not happening. Instead of rising prices to a little, there will now be consumer prices or NBS reference rate. It's not a change in the way you pay. Change in the way you pay is a completely different vision, both legal and financial. You further say: "How can applicants not suffer from the inability to account for the purchase price of the apartment, which has occurred since the Republic Statistics Institute since 1 January 2011, as an inflation measure, no longer publishes data on prices at small, but consumer price data, and has ceased to publish profit data in the economy of the Republic. "For a year, you've been waiting for this law. I ask the question why it wasn't done within the appropriate time limit, why was it waiting so long? According to us, this is a cosmetic law, a law that we don't solve the essential question, and the essential question is how do we solve the citizens' housing issue in the cheapest way? We have, within the fourth item of the agenda, a bill amending the Law on Incentives in the area of the construction industry, which you have tried to make a certain turn in this area, but the fundamental problem remains – that we do not have a free market today, we do not have cheap housing construction today, we do not have solved issues of cheap housing. What's our practice in the last 20 years? There was a real robbery in the apartment assignment field. It began with the breaking of Yugoslavia, when representatives of Slovenia were on the housing committees, who met all their needs and shared hundreds of apartments with Slovenian personnel. Is that where Serbia rose to protect itself? It's not. The Croats did the same. The real robbery started the moment the state union of Serbia-Montenegro broke down. Now in the press we can see hundreds of divided apartments on some national basis, brother base, godfather base, etc. Radoje Kontic, former president of the federal government, received an apartment of 342m square feet. What are the merits of this man getting such an apartment? So, by the failures of the authorities, by those authorities and by these authorities, has the audit been carried out? It has been announced by certain institutions, including representatives of this government. Does the Serbian parliament know what is in this parliament's possession, who has assigned apartments, how they were assigned, how competitions were conducted, whether the conditions of competition and who took part in the robbery were respected? No one knows anything about it. That's tragic. Do we, in the property state of this Parliament, have shown any accounting information about the apartments? We don't. It's tragic, and we need to talk about it. These are cosmetic changes that only cloud even such a difficult position in which our country is located. The task of this authority is to carry out the audit, what you announced, and it was the authority that announced the audit. But it's not gonna happen. The Serbian Radical Party cannot accept the bill for formal legal reasons, essential reasons and, in the end, since it is a cosmetic law, there is no need to show our dissatisfaction with such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64838	Five minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64839	I just want to say that it is very interesting that the previous speaker insisted on establishing how they received Todorovic's apartments, Toma Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic. I really think it's correct. Krasic, also, who was the minister. So, I think it's correct and I think it suggests serious changes in understanding the responsibility of the SRS. We'll back it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64840	It was used 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. The People's Messenger Bojan Mladenovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milorad Buha. You have no right to a replica. There's nothing said and please don't throw it away. Therefore, I will remind you that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the chair has a discretionary right to decide whether there are grounds for replication or not, as well as that there is a member of 106 who implies that there is a agenda if, during the presentation of the MP, it is practically on the verge of respect for the provisions on the agenda, which was the case in the presentation of the People's MP Milorad Buha, because most of it is dedicated to the arguments which were no longer applicable, and not to the regulations that will be applied. I felt that this helped the argument, so if an MP takes for himself the right to use a broad one MP in the argument, then every other MP has that right, and that can't be the reason for the replica. National MP Bojan Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64841	Thank you. You can only count this minute. The minute's already up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64842	I will always be patient, to repeat that no MP has ever been added to the time used to remind MPs of their obligations in the Rules of Procedure and the provisions concerning conduct, treatment, speech methods and rules that imply that the agenda is spoken of, so that when every speaker is finished, I will say how much time has really been used since the time of the parliamentary group, or the time of the president of the parliamentary group, and that time differs from the time on the monitor for as much as I have to use to remind you of what our common obligations are. If you feel that you have the right to speak falsely about how time is measured, as determined by the Rules of Procedure, then I will have to remind you that it is the edge of insult and demeaning of parliament. If we were in the O.R. often enough, then we'd know that no MP has ever been taken away from his time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64843	Thank you. As far as this amendment is concerned, colleagues, Milorad Buha, are therefore to introduce, instead of consumer price indicators, a new indicator, i.e. the NBS reference rate and apply under this law. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia introduces a new consumer price indicator in early 2007, and this indicator is mentioned in the Republic of Serbia, and it is, to say, introduced instead of a price indicator. Why and for what reason, we can assume that. The reason is that under the indicator index prices are not limited to certain products, i.e. consumer prices are not covered by all products covered by the price indicator. There are far fewer, and that is the basic reason for inflation to appear much smaller than what it really is in the Republic of Serbia. The difference is, first of all, in the scope of a product whose prices are monitored as a means of calculating their funders. Prices on a small scale, such as construction material prices, repromaterials, repromation for agriculture, etc., which are not covered by the consumer price indicator. Also, in the consumer price index there is a significantly smaller share of the prices of regulated products, meaning those products that are regulated and controlled by the state. It's precisely those products whose prices, let me say, are increasing from month to month, which the state controls, such as oil derivatives, traffic services, municipal services, electricity, etc. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced this term of consumer prices that we believe is not adequate for the application of when inflation counts. In the first quarter of 2007, the same inflation, when looking at the price index to a small one, showed that inflation was 1.2%, and these consumer prices that you introduced said that inflation was only 0.7% in that same period. This is due to less participation in these regulated prices. However, however you turn inflation in Serbia is present and is growing every month. Here, and now that you use this consumer price indicator, in August it was 100%, in September 100.2%, in October 100.4%, in November 100.9%. However you turn, however you measure, whatever indicator you're using, you see that inflation is on a constant rise. It's the first regret in using this indicator, which we think should change. The second objection is to use this indicator as well as other indicators mentioned in this law, which was the time it took for the government of the Republic of Serbia to fit this indicator and other indicators into this law itself. I have already noted that this indicator is mentioned on the road in early 2007 in the Republic of Serbia, and this indicator and all other indicators covered by this law were introduced through all the laws at the end of December last year. Now it's the end of December, so a year it took you all these indicators, not many of them, maybe three, four that are foreseen by this law, a year it took you to apply them and put them into the House Act. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia why was it so controversial and what was it disputed that this consumer price indicator and other indicators, to apply within this law and for a year you needed to write down all three members and thus enable people who buy apartments to continue buying their apartments? For a year people suffered, for a year people didn't know the ransom prices of apartments, just because the government was too casual and it took a year to write down all three members. I ask another question, I consider it an indicator of consumer prices that is not appropriate that it is not good, I believe that the amendment should change and be a reference rate of the NBS and I once again appeal to the government to be more serious, more responsible, especially when it comes to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to suffer for a year the citizens who are buying up apartments, to wait a year for the government to have mercy and to have the government write down only three members of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64844	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64845	On account of the story we just heard from Mrs. Kolundjia, I was talking about that there is no real initiative to explore everything that needs to be explored. On the other hand, let's get what's not in line. I said, so the review has to be carried out because of a number of abuses. On the other hand, in an accounting sense, every landlord must clearly know what his property is, the value of his property, where that property is and everything that goes into it. This institution, the Assembly, and neither the state institution of the Republic of Serbia have the data. It's sad, and that's why we have everything we have in practice, and it's open robbery by certain lobbies who used their monopoly position, assigned themselves apartments and later made a ransom at very affordable prices and after three, five years of selling these apartments, two, three, five times as expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64846	One minute was used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64847	I was just saying, what you said again that you wanted. So we also want to establish the full truth that those who were ministers, ministerial assistants, various civil servants at the time when they were in power, at the time when people were killed, they were losing houses, lives, property, they were building up state-owned apartments, and they were buying them out later. Some of them were moving in, therefore, in debt, protected. The head of a parliamentary group whose member is here right now insists on reviewing it and reviewing it. We're totally okay with it. First of all, bearing in mind that since 2001, when the government was changed, ministers have not received official apartments, nor have they been able to buy them out. Whenever this ruling majority has a chance to decide on this, they are not, as at the time you speak of, assigned to the ministers' dwellings and then allowed to buy them at ridiculous prices. They weren't assigned land for one dinar, etc. I am fully agreed that we should examine it, carry out an audit and correct the mistakes. Those responsible for what happened back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64848	It was used one minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64849	The government has a mission, not that she wants, but she has to, she had to do it. It's a legal obligation you haven't done in years. I won't, I won't, but you have to, it's the law. This is the Accounting Act, this is the Property Act, Public Property, etc. That's what you had to do. It must be in books and must be transparent, clearly recorded and accessible to every citizen, to know that it is made of both in this and that procedure and that it has received that and that, the total value of that apartment is so high and that it is known. Now we don't know anything and it's tragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64850	It's been used 45 seconds since the time of authorised representatives. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64851	If this is a message that we are responsible for all of them robbing the country, having unfounded property, having robbed Serbian citizens, are not already in courts, then I admit, we are truly responsible for not being in prisons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64852	It's been used for 20 seconds. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64853	This is really correct when we in this House get the real truth. The truth is, we're responsible for something. That's what we haven't heard in this House before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64854	People's MP, I don't think you're often in Parliament's sessions enough. This is very often heard in this House. Anyone else want a word? Please, without being thrown away so that we don't have to waste our time on sitting down so that the MPs, who hate to read what it says in the Rules of Procedure or who don't think it applies to them, reminds me of what each one of us has to do. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64855	Mrs. Comic, I have had the strength to report, to comment on and explain this amendment. I have to admit at first that this is my amendment, I signed it, but Bhuha wrote it, so you know. So the text is Buhin. I wanted to talk about this dialectic between prices for small, consumer prices, gross earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia... Mrs. Comic, you're not leaving, are you? I was just about to praise the EU, although Mrs. Kolundji bit me by the heart, here I am bleeding. Mrs. Nado, Rose Djindjic is filming every single one of your exhibits here. Something's not working out for you this week. Yesterday you decrypted that Zoran Djindjic, and now you've attacked the government of Vojislav Kostunica who gave the villa Ružica Djindjic, but it's already within the party matter, someone will kneel on corn, I don't know who, but to return to my amendment now. What's this about? There's no minister either. Where are these ministers from G17 plus? It's not like they're counting money during working hours, is it? He needs to come here and hear the criticism. This really doesn't make sense. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since it is left for us to be with you in the coalition, since there is nothing from these others, to explain what is going on. You see, this is the law, and there's a statement of compliance with EU regulations here, and it's written everywhere -- no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Excuse me, please, how could this bill come on the agenda? Is it possible by this law to say -- what do we care, Phil, what do we care about Angela Merkel, what do we care about their standards, we have our standards? Please, you'll get a pack of these from Brussels. Now around mid-January, as soon as these holidays pass, by 6 January, they will say again – to your feet, come to Brussels and you will be criticised for this. How can you harass MPs with one bill that has nothing to do with EU regulations? Let me remind you, you're still in the EU sense there's no alternative. It's the first round, Mr. Novakovic. There's some dialectic that's been going on for the past few years, so what's really a rapper for calculating inflation, the price for a little bit, the growth of profits, and some combination between them, you swapped consumer prices, but you messed up weights. This methodology reduces the number of weights for those goods and those services that are controlled by the state – electricity, medicines, heating etc. Then one virtual picture of the low inflation rate is taken. From the point of view of the purchase of apartments, it fits, Mr. Novakovic, all the people who buy the apartment for the wars. So that suits people, to be clear. There are no major problems, however, it is problematic that you do not accept these amendments. Why? You see, as the basis for this change, you've found an amendment to the Act on Classification of Action. Well, where do you find in that law the need to change statistics? No, you wanted your statistics to be consistent with EU-led statistics so that it could be compared. Look at the other one. The second failure is that you have made or are proposing a change to make net earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is a tax-free profit and a contribution to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Novakovic. What is the economy of the Republic of Serbia? Since Boris Tadic became president of the Republic based on that false promise to hire 250,000 new people, Mr. Novakovic, this statistics in line with European standards has said that 500,000 jobs have been destroyed, 500,000 opportunities for employment. So if you take that in all of Serbia there is one job systematization rule with two million systematic jobs, 500,000 jobs no longer exist, Mrs. Kolundzija, 500,000 perspectives, Mrs. Kolundžija, 500,000 opportunities... You, too, Hope, run away. What am I supposed to do now? What do I do, Novakovic? What's left, Mr. Novakovic, beyond that economy? The number of unemployed has increased by 300,000. That information cannot hide either your Dejan Jovanovic, Mr Novakovic, the one from the Employment Service, although he, if you are one day late, immediately takes you off the record. It increased by 300,000 people the number of unemployed, so 200,000 of these young people who finished some schools and then asked if we needed schools. You probably just need a membership card to finish the job, so 22,000 highly educated. It's the ones their parents told them -- go, son, finish college, then you'll have a good job, you won't have to bother yourself, etc. Now they're struggling at the employment desk. They read easy to work, fast to work, etc., but there's no job. Tadic would have hired five million now, but he can't. Mr. Novakovic, 158 magistrates can't find a job, they're at the desk. Imagine, we have three doctors of science, and they can't find a job. It's official statistics run by G17 plus, not the URS, G17 plus, not to be forgotten, please. What's with the black results? They believed Mladjan Dinkic in those 1,000 euros of free shares. What does Junior say two, three months ago? I had to agree that Tadic would be elected president. So if we count the net profit in the economy and if we have in mind what it's doing from our economy and how much wages are not paid there, we probably have negative rates. Mr. Novakovic, negative rates. Now, what does smart government do? She says – net earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, we do not want that criterion and that indicator, but we will now need a great deal of effort, tax-free earnings and contributions in the Republic. Mr. Novakovic, profit without taxes and contributions, is net earnings, but is no longer called statistics. But if taken in the Republic, then there's Bojan Kristo, that's the governor of the National Bank with six, seven thousand euros a month, and there's government officials, and especially those in the Assembly, who have twice as much pay as the secretary, remember, we have that category of advisors, so there's those who went to foreign courses, so they get some certificates, so they come here as neither guilty nor due, as great experts, so there's the salaries of bank employees, so there's their bonuses. God, this criterion is dangerous. So, the net profit in the economy, which would be minus as an indicator, is replaced by the tax-free income indicator and contributions in the Republic and now that when the garaganes come, then there's a big plus, and that's a minus for all those who buy apartments. So, through the statistics matching firm, very strange things are happening and it's getting pretty dangerous. Next thing I know, Mr. Bhuha has made an amendment for us to have time to talk. It's not Mr. Buha that ignorant, it's that we have to fight a little bit of time. If it wasn't for these National Assembly sessions, who knew about the radicals? You've blocked us everywhere, we can't even move. There's Tucko, Bucko, Shaper, Gilas, so I don't talk to you. Keep it under control, and even when you represent...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64856	The subject of the agenda, as a parliamentary obligation. I thank Mr. Buha for such a creative amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64857	Yes, it is. The reference rate proposed by Mr. Buha does not belong to this law. We did it on purpose. Here, I confess to you why we did it, to get the rabbit out of the woods. What did you say? The NBS reference rate is important for financial transactions, and these indicators that are now being incorporated through changes and additions to this law are important in order to preserve the value of the assets. Oh, that's not possible. So, when it comes to asset value, immovableity, etc., it can be without the right indicator, but when it comes to financial resources, when it comes to account numbers, there are other rates. It's worth more cash than real estate, cash, as you like to say. You see how we masterly throw you out into the deleted space and then slap you a little bit so the public can see what kind of fraud is going on, and everything surrounded by the law, the European standards, however, you don't refer here to European standards. I don't even know how this could have gotten in the process. How could he enter a law that the proposer says has no connection to the EU? You're taking a big risk. What happens if Angela Merkel comes back again? That's what slaps are gonna rain. You boasted in that progress record – we have 700 European laws in Serbia. We all live by European standards. When you say, Mr. Novakovic, you're fired immediately. The European Union, an epochal pension increase of 1.2%, cannot pay the EU 500 000 families monthly credit rates. Why don't you go with those European standards now? You don't care, you have television, everything on TV is a nice, frozen picture. We can't wait to go to the EU, we can fly, nice, nice, cuddly, you don't care about KIM, what interests you. It's important to you to understand your function. You can see how the people's saying is confirmed on ordinary things, not the snow that is its time, but that its traces may be seen. Mr. Novakovic, since you are not sufficiently informed, two progress reports are being made in the EU, one on Kosovo's progress towards the EU and the other on Serbia's progress. Let me remind you this, so you don't worry too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64858	Thank you for that, but for the second time I warn you, this time out of every charm. The topic of the agenda is – instead of consumer, reference rate in changes and additions to the House Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64859	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64860	This is the last warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64861	Are you threatening me, Mr. Novakovic? Don't threaten, this is the National Assembly, this is the parlar, this is where we talk, we convince ourselves, there's an argument. What is your argument – the last warning before the exclusion? It's not an argument, it's a law in the topless. Don't say that. I'm stressed, I can't work. It's a mobing. Mr. Novakovic, let me explain one thing. You were supposed to pull this out of the debate, not you, but the bill promoter. Why? You draw attention to the EU and I learned from my well-informed sources that on December 8th, the EU Council had on the agenda and the draft law amending the Law on Housing, which is planned in the Republic of Serbia and that Popeye and that team there told you – there is no statement that it has been agreed with the EU and we will not give Serbia on 9 December the status of candidates to start any negotiations on eventual EU accession, if possible, in 2389. That's what the translation means - you've spent 11 years on free paint. You've done everything wrong. Now your system's broken. Come on, you've broken the system, but when the system is broken, only poor people pay twice. That's the danger. Mr. Novakovic, when you are called from the EU, you come to Brussels, do not answer me. I'm angry because you threatened to punish me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64862	I was just applying the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This concludes our review of the amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. As we have conducted a search of the Bills and in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the day of voting on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the Civil Industry of the Republic of Serbia in the Conditions of Economic Crisis You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Dusan Marić and Sreto Peric on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The National Assembly carried out a search in principle, in accordance with Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64863	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic law on the incentives of the construction industry during the economic crisis provides for the law to apply until 31 December 2011. The government is now proposing to extend the validity of this law until 31 December of next 2012, and we have submitted an amendment proposing that the period of validity of that law be extended to at least 31 December 2013. The government rejected the amendment with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the negative effects of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction will be estimated to exceed the deadline set for the bill to apply. What's the problem here? The problem is that the government, with this explanation, has denied Minister Dulic. Minister Dulic, in a debate in principle, says the following days ago, I quote - the global economic crisis, the world economy is on the verge of a new recession whose length and seriousness is impossible to predict. With this explanation, the government and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic also denied Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, who has said several times these days -- I warn that the global economic crisis has not stopped and that it is only expected to be eroded in 2013 or 2014. The government renegotiates another statement by Minister Dulic, who says, in the explanation of the bill, Minister Dulic says the following – the government decided to extend the period of validity of the law, since the world economy is far from the rapid recovery we hoped for last June when we limited the law to the end of this year. That's what the minister says. Now I want to know who's right here? Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which says the crisis will last until 2012, Minister Dulic, who says it cannot be estimated how long the crisis will last, or the President of the Republic, who says the crisis will last until at least 2013 or 2014? I remind you that even when we discussed the basic law, it was about a year and a half ago, we warned that the 18-month deadline was too short for this law to give the desired effect in such a specific economic area, such as the building. I remind you that construction is a very slow activity. First you choose a job, so you have to call a competition, you have to choose a performer, then subcontractors are selected, so the purchase of materials, supply of materials to the site, addition of machines etc. etc. By the time it's over, it's been a year, and the law's only lasted a year and a half. We also warned of what you are now repeating, that the economic crisis will last longer than 31 December 2011. This has been warned by all the serious domestic and world economists. However, when proposing this bill, Minister Dulic and his associates were likely to be guided by a statement by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who said seven months ago that we had overcome the economic crisis and perhaps also by a statement by then Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic, who said three months before Minister Cvetkovic that we were mostly on our way out of the economic crisis. Here are some more reasons why we propose that the validity of this law be extended by the end of 2012 until at least 31 December 2013. The first and basic reason is that all forecasts, forecasts of world and domestic economic experts say that this second wave of crisis is more dangerous than the first one and that it will not end in at least two or three years. Secondly, I remind again of Minister Dulic's statement three or four days ago here in this assembly -- the world economy is on the verge of a new recession whose seriousness is now impossible to predict, and experience suggests that the negative consequences of the crisis can be minimised by timely state policy measures. Now I ask the question – what are these measures of state policy, what is this state policy that limits itself to one year? It's unserious stuff. I remind you again of the statement by the President of the Republic – the crisis will last at least two years. What does that mean? This means that in a year's time, the Serbian government will submit to the Assembly a bill proposing that the deadline of the law be extended for the next year or two days. However, this government has already become manipulative. I remind you that in the past three years, only when it comes to the laws on the validity of the ID card and passport, we have extended three or four times their duration. We have each proposed some longer, more realistic, more normal deadlines in the interest of Serbian citizens, and for the reasons that we knew that the competent ministry couldn't accept that size of work, you have ignored it every time, and then only after a few months or longer after a year, the solutions proposed by the SRS proposed here as proposals for amendments and additions to your laws. In order not to repeat all this with this law at the end of next year, it means to avoid all these loops that are related to the creation and adoption of one law - a cabinet session, a session of parliament, the making of materials, photocopying of materials, etc. etc. we propose to extend the duration of this proposal to at least 31 December 2013. There's no one here from the government. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. I wish Minister Dulic was here to give me a single normal, rational reason that is not in conflict with common sense, why is this amendment not accepted? Accepting our amendment would, among other things, bring one beyond the necessary stability to the construction industry and the Serbian economy at all. You know, it's unserious to expect someone who's seriously involved in the business, a serious investor who has huge resources, to plan on investing his resources in a job that will last a year under the law. He begins his economic activity and one environment he knows in advance will only last a year. The third reason why we propose an extension of this deadline is Mr Dulic's exposure in this assembly. I'll quote it, it's very interesting. This exposure is an absolute confirmation of this argument that there is no reason for our amendment not to be accepted. I quote -- during the implementation of the law this year, the government approved a total of 325 projects in Serbia's territory by 1 December, of which 250 projects were provided with funding. Of these, 113 projects totalling 5.4 billion dinars were approved by local self-governments in Vojvodina territory, 11 projects worth 4.2 billion were approved by Belgrade, and 126 projects worth 7.9 billion dinars, a total of around 19 billion, approved by other local self-governments. Dulic also said that by December 1st this year, the government approved 75 projects for which the funds had been provided in full by authorised project promoters, which means that funding for these projects was not necessary in the republican budget. If so, if this law has indeed given these positive effects, then I do not understand why this law is limited to a year? Why does one such good law, as the minister claims, even time limit? The law should be passed without any time limits. Let's let it last as long as it takes. Let it last as long as the benefits are greater than the damage. The moment the damage is greater than the benefit, it's no problem to put the law out of force. We in the SRS believe that the adoption of such laws alone does not mean anything if the government is not ready and able, and it is obviously neither ready nor able to take measures to help heal and start the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to count what the measures are. First, it is necessary to allow construction firms to pay VAT only after the payments made, not after the invoices have been placed. Due to the current way of VAT, dozens and dozens of once-good construction firms in the Republic of Serbia went bankrupt. Also, we believe that VAT on construction material should be reduced from the current 18%. We also believe that taxes and contributions to salaries of employees in the Republic of Serbia should be reduced. We now have a situation that out of every 100 dinars of profit in the Republic of Serbia, 63 dinars of the state takes it for itself. The reduction of VAT and the reduction of all these duties would create room for the construction industry's momentum. On the one hand, it would revive the construction industry, and on the other hand, get cheaper apartments, hire people and allow one significant number of these 400,000 homeless citizens of the Republic of Serbia to finally get a roof over their heads. What is very important when the promotion of the construction industry is at stake, which I suppose was the goal of adopting this bill, is that the construction industry is dragging several other industries – the processing industry, the industry that manufactures construction materials, the chemical industry, the machine elements industry, etc. You know, as it is known that each dinar invested in the construction industry brings three dinars of profits to society, so it is known that the opening of one job in the construction industry allows at least four more jobs in other branches of the economy. We believe that the investment of the Republic of Serbia in the construction industry should be greater than it has been. I just cited some figures, and I kind of calculated that according to this law, the government invested 19 billion dinars in the promotion of the construction industry. That sounds a lot at first sight, however, it's small. Why is that small? The other day I was here saying that the government of the Republic of Serbia owed Serbia six billion and 626m euros during the term of office of this parliament. Just since this law was passed, you've been in charge of the state for about two billion and 200 million euros. If you were part five, and you needed more than a fifth, more than 20%, invested in the construction industry, then maybe you could talk about us being able to overcome the economic crisis. Next, it is necessary to reprogram the debts of construction companies. That's what the construction industry keeps looking for, that's what government representatives keep promising, I read newspaper statements and every time they agree, but it's already a practice. They lie to Serbian citizens, so why don't they lie to the construction industry too. One of the basic preconditions for this law to make sense is that businesses, especially large businesses in the construction industry, are given to Serbian companies. It was one of the basic objectives for the adoption of this law. Article 2(3) - The objectives of this law are, under 3) to encourage the development and employment of domestic enterprises dealing with the production of construction materials. What's the status on the ground? Who was working this bridge at the Trigger? Foreign contractors. Who was working the bridge at Beska's over the Danube? Foreign contractors. Who was doing a reconstruction of Gazela? Foreign contractors. Who works the bridge over Ade Gypsies? Foreign contractors. We have the Bridge Building, a company that built bridges in 30 countries in the world, impressive buildings. We have Ivan Milutinovic, and we have dozens more companies that have celebrated Serbia and the former SFRY building much harder buildings than bridges. Now we have a situation where all the bridges in the Republic of Serbia, all the bypasses are built by some companies from abroad, by your sponsor companies, by your political mentors from Germany, France and other countries. Seven, the government must do more to organise joint performances of our construction operation on the world market. There's nothing to it. The other day, during the debate in principle, a colleague, Milorad Buh, spoke. We used to be more competitive firms, the most competitive bidders, performers on the Russian market, in the Middle East, in North Africa. Now there our builders only get jobs based on old fame, based on some personal acquaintances and individual recommendations. Next, the government does not run a policy of even regional development. Two years ago, we had a situation that the government approved 103 projects in the construction industry, of which 102 projects in Vojvodina and Belgrade, and only one in the rest of Serbia. The minister here boasted the construction of 5,000 apartments in Stepa Stepanovic's village, and that is for every commendation, provided that these apartments are truly completed and provided that citizens are actually made available under the conditions under which they were promised. We don't mind making 10,000 apartments in Belgrade. Now, about 30,000 workers have been employed on the project, which is one piece of information that should make us happy, but why aren't five or ten thousand apartments built inside? Why aren't apartments made in Surdulica, in the Great Plan, in the Smederjevska Palanca? For the same money for which five apartments are built in Belgrade, 10 apartments can be built inside. We complain that some parts of the Republic of Serbia are dying on us. We have data, in 2,000 villages and villages there is no life, the extinction of the entire municipality. We have the information, Black Grass, and I'm talking about it because they're the most famous construction foundry in Black grass, and we're going to have less than 1,000 inhabitants. Instead of making apartments downstairs, hiring people on the doorstep, we concentrate on building industry investments on the territory of the city of Belgrade. I'm finishing up, just to remind you of the five objectives the government has declared in the adoption of this law. Article 2 -overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction, i.e. helping the domestic construction industry out of the crisis. Are they out of line? No, they're not. Two, fostering the development and employment of domestic construction companies and ensuring the liquidity of this sector. Does the liquidity have you? There isn't. Three, encouraging development and employment of domestic enterprises. I've told you before, the bigger the construction business is being carried out by strangers. Four, retaining the existing level of employment and creating preconditions to create new jobs in the area of the construction industry. A few dozen workers were fired. The last goal, the fifth goal, is to foster economic development in the Republic of Serbia. Since the law was passed, about 250,000 workers have been fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64864	Thank you. Mr Avramović Milan has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, since there is no government representative, I don't know who will give us the answers to the questions asked whether our amendment is acceptable or not, the only cameraman can do is ask you a question, so that some SMS is responding. If that is feasible, for some resolution in the Serbian Parliament, I suppose there is also a law in the Serbian Parliament. We ask the question – why is the amendment proposed by the SRS to change the period of validity of this law, so that there is no period of validity of the sustainability of a can for a year, but that it lasts much more? The government's explanation is that the economic crisis based on indicators, which has made it clear to everyone that the construction industry is recovering. I ask one question - which construction industry, with the law binding 70% domestic, 30% private construction industry, so on and beyond, and how can this be applied in this democratic process of the state of Serbia run by the DS, when market liberalisation is the basic principle of democracy or even DS in Serbia at all? How did you do the market liberalisation of 70 to 30 in favour of domestic enterprises? Now let's understand ourselves, as far as the SRS is concerned, we are 100% in favour of domestic businesses in relation to foreign businesses, when it comes to privileges. These privileges were not given to domestic companies and construction producers, but to themselves. Why? Because the Government has a special conclusion, which is defined by this law, makes a decision to whom it will entrust business, minimum and maximum price of business, a special conclusion in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, etc. So she did everything she could to help herself. Watch this attitude of the law that says, "Administrative part of these jobs will be done by the competent ministry." So, there are no taxis, no demands, no idea project, everything that exists, and what weighs down every ordinary builder who, for example, in the City Secretariat and for urbanism and for construction in the city of Belgrade for six, seven or eight months to prepare documentation to eventually get a solution to the performance of works. There may be so much preparation that the solution doesn't get, because there's a price list, a zone, a location, so from which party lines come, whose investor you are, how you managed to even compete, who allows you, did you consult with someone, etc., etc. Mr. Novakovic, the best proof of that, and I told you last time about it, is the Bellville settlement. Mr. Miskovic made a package of buildings, betrayed the state for the University, cashed in, allowed himself to sell apartments – for cheap construction of a set of sales – and there is no possibility of any construction company to get any permits in that square and to do anything until these apartments are sold. Then we ask the question – if the government organises conclusions for itself, how does it think it prevents crime and corruption that exists in this area of construction? On the other hand, the law should not last just as long as it is an economic crisis and that no minister can be psychic as long as the crisis continues. Also, aside from the fact that it's a year's limit. Because the construction industry should always have the support of the state, because of jobs abroad, because of jobs that need to serve to achieve a better standard of living, to employ more people, to bite, etc. So this is where one legal monopoly was made for government affairs. The minister said it was a recommendation from local self-government. Local self-governments are running wild. Some have the opportunity to build, build and build, with money to be provided by the state of Serbia because they are the same party officials at both the local and the Serbian state level, and then they are allowed to do so. Why is this not possible for other local self-governments? Because the budget doesn't allow it. They don't have the money of local self-government, Mr. Novakovic, and they don't have the money to pay employees, not to build, because it's the right of them here taken away in the most transparent way possible – we don't give you money, find your way, and where our people are, we're going to give them. Now they've even passed that obligation on to local communities. In the budget law, you have the opportunity, Mr. Novakovic, for the local community to compete with the Republic's Finance Ministry for a project, and then there is a monopoly for the Ministry to decide which local community a project is going to help and which one is not. You don't think that's what Serbian citizens see? You think this help to help the state itself, to choose the performer, the price and the top of all that is a modus and a description of the job is really a criterion that can't meet everyone, but one that is suitable for that authority, which will give little of the cake to whoever gave it the job. Mr. Novakovic, how many subcontractors are currently in Stepa Stepanovic's barracks and who got the job? Do you know that? What firm is capable or has at all the capacity to complete all the work from foundation to roof at any residential facility? It is logical that there are small subcontractors, but not so that one investor gets a job without participating in it, hires others and takes a percentage. That's exactly what happened. What kind of state gave Dragan Kopčević a job for Stepa Stepanovic's barracks? The company that took care of "Trubnik", a company that is in a blockade, a company that has no court procedure, which has not lost, since Mr. Dragan Kopčević took over, actually "Monter" when she privatised "Trubnik" we are talking about the construction industry. One hotel called "The Trustee" costs as much as he has paid for the entire mechanization operation and all the other obligations she has and as a trustee, actually as someone who has a claim and as someone who needs to pay off certain obligations. If the privatisation process has turned the domestic construction industry into what it's turned into, it's actually destroyed it, no wonder the bridge on Ada builds the party, as the bridge on Beška does to the party. To whom will we in these 30%, the minister urged foreign companies to participate in these 30%, to finance foreign companies? They financed enough to buy construction companies for free and thus took over the business that these companies had abroad and paid off their liabilities and money to buy the entire company. When that twisting moment was over, they threw people out on the streets, and then in front of the Ministry of Finance strikes, whistles, sherps, pots, and what you taught the people to seek their rights by democratic means, freedom of speech, by expressing their torment. So the proposal for our amendment is that the construction industry should have the support of the state non-stop, not related to whether the economic crisis is or not, plus in a situation where the economic crisis is in a transparent and clear way. Best offer, no closed bids, tender, then a construction firm, then a supervisory board, so that work, deadlines and everything else is needed to develop. If now the popular measure is social housing in the city of Belgrade, because it is a contribution to the DS campaign, which since the latter wants to preserve its positions and since it wants to complete the projects, because, you know, it can't cost two million if it costs a million, but that other million needs to be justified and therefore it takes another mandate, to justify the value of the bridge on Ada that costs the most expensive in the world and which costs as three of the same bridges anywhere in Europe. These projects are such that the Serbian government must support them in order to complete it. What's also bad, why do other manufacturers in the construction industry bother with their works done, when selections are carried out in the city's secretaries? Mr. Novakovic, when he arrives, you pay VAT for every paper, you pay taxes for every request. The compensation for the construction of the city's building land has been defined relative to the area. The zone is set so big they can build in the first zone, and the kid in the second one, can't go the other way. The compensation for the construction of the city's building land is the state's pure racket towards the construction industry, so that the state has something to do with the construction. Plus the other taxes, not to mention companies that pay only the company with abnormal amounts, because they hung it in the rooms where they were. If the state wanted to help the construction industry, she had other ways, to forgive them part of the debt. The IMF forgives the state's debts, why wouldn't the state forgive taxes on city building land to companies that worked anywhere in Serbia and not just in the city of Belgrade? Why don't you cut down on the wars of those company obligations? No, we're going to make a monopoly, the big fish are going to eat the little one, and then we're going to send a truck of construction material into a pre-election campaign to get the people to vote for us. That's what the SNS on the Leader did. Poor people who are hungry and when any truck arrives, everyone runs and loves a driver, and no one asks what's hungry? That is the problem, Mr. Novakovic, which will legalise such affairs and such actions with this law. What should also be mentioned is a modus that completed projects will be completed in a year. "Stepa Stepanovic", in fact, the barracks "Stepa Stepanovic" on Vozdovec's operations have been going on for a long time, cannot be completed by the end of this year. Whether it will end by the end of the election campaign or until the election, we will see it, but the fact is that 250 projects, how many projects are actually local self-government projects that got the job, cannot be completed by 2013. Therefore, it is necessary to accept this amendment, which is why it is necessary to put the Secretary-General in charge to explain why we cannot get the opportunity to assist the construction operation after December 2012, and why we allow them to function longer periods, because privatisation is not yet completed and because what needs to be done through the revision is returned to citizens as their property, to collect damages and actually taxes, caused by the damages made by these construction companies, which have been thrown out of the street workers and that all claims of all workers are settled. You have over 500 employees at the Trubnik who have income from the company, 15 years ago when they worked abroad. And that company that privatised "The Dealer" contract took it upon itself as a commitment. The people are indignant today by court proceedings, they get the solution that they should settle their claims, they are unable to do so because the company is in a blockade. And while the company is in a blockade, the owner of the company is building 15 or 16 sites on behalf of the state. How is that possible? Then how does the state help hire people, feed themselves, live a better life? So open your eyes and do not put into congregation procedure what is clear to everyone, that today is Thursday. Do not put on what will distract the messengers of the people, for this is not the law of the duration of a can of a year. A construction operation cannot recover in ten years, as much privatisation has destroyed it. And you've been here for a year, to those companies that have already surfaced with the help of the state, and they have an obligation to the state incredibly, and to their employees, and to other cooperatives with whom they've had jobs in Serbia's territory, and abroad. So, Mr. Novakovic, next time you get the minister to talk this out and tell him, maybe the man will change his mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64866	Mr Krasic has the word. Time remaining 18 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64867	So you see, when we were making amendments to this bill, we were simply in the dilemma of what to give primate, should we give primate to those people who need to make some pay on construction sites, some profit, or give primate to fight organized crime? And here we are, somehow, getting closer to this second position that we have had to submit a different amendment, an amendment where this is deleted, because apparently the government as a promoter has given primate to organised crime, not to employees in the construction industry who are working on these construction sites. What Mr. Maric said about the construction industry, good expectations, needs of wishes, what needs to be done, etc. simply falls into the water, because Mr. Dulic is probably counting somewhere in some coffee shop, he doesn't care about this bill. Let's get in line. This is a classic example of the state monopoly, as this monopoly began. So if a private man can build, tear down a house, build a building, split apartments, the president of the municipality gets four, five apartments, etc., so Dulic must be installed in a democratic way. This is the third mafia coalition democratic government, you understand. Very simple. So this story about the global economic crisis, so it's a long-term patient state when Democrats are in power. Look what you've done. You made Serbia black grass. You made a stamp that says "black grass" and beat it up on Serbia's map, so that "black grass" is both Belgrade and Nis, and Kragujevac, and Novi Sad. It's all black grass. Statistically "black grass", that's what Europe has got us in here with that kind of frozen image. Mr. Novakovic, I was in Bor last night, I had some government business, I talked to the citizens, so I'm preparing some rebellion, so I'm counting on it to affect them. Imagine what that piece of yours is doing out there from G17 plus? It has the same thing to do with construction, with this law. Six circular flows were made, six million dinars each. Six monuments on every roundabout. Who knows how much it costs millions. Imagine what he patented? A working fountain. (President: But Mr. Krasic, it has nothing to do with the amendment. So the construction work has nothing to do with the amendment. If you listened carefully to your colleague Marić, you could learn anything, because that's how it is discussed in relation to the agenda and the subject, so I'm returning to your topic and don't let this happen again, please. ) Mr. Novakovic, you voted for the law by which his empire is an MP – a committeeman free. Why would I have to agree with Maric? Maric gave the primate with his amendment to the social aspect of construction workers, and I give my discussion a primate fight against organised crime. I'm just giving you an example. (President: But it has nothing to do with the amendment. I know what you're saying and why you're talking, but it has nothing to do with the amendment. To continue until 2013, to steal until 2013? I'm against them stealing legally until 2013. Do you understand me? (President: You are against the amendment, if I understand you correctly. You'll get my attitude in the end. Now I'm making an argument, I want to convince you. We must strike a deadly blow to organized crime. Do you agree? There's a crime scene in the government. And that's where you agree? You disagree. So there's someone who isn't. You see, the construction mob split up, there's a private part, there's a state section. This state part of the construction mafia, I'm just giving you one example – imagine what a brilliant mind has come up with in Bora. He almost opened the fountain, so she's supposed to work in the winter, but since the water's freezing, he put in an antifreeze instead of water. They're also a pituitary, Mr. Novakovic. There's a lot of things out there, a zoo, everything. As I can see, the main procurement system is: I'm not going to self-service, I'm going to the first container. What kind of life is that? What are you talking about? We're gonna let Dulic do what he's doing by 2013. Did you hear Mr. Maric, Mr. Avramovic, he knows, lives nearby, watches that "Monter" change names. It's that firm that didn't know how to set tram tracks, so now trams crash in the corner, according to European standards. What are we talking about? We have a serious approach to help the construction industry, but how do we expect Dulic to help the construction industry, Mr. Novakovic? What are we talking about? My discussion is about the amendment to prevent organized crime. The location of organised crime lies in the mafia-democratic coalition, in the light of the third such government. She needs to document Serbia now. There's also a SNS... (President: I would very much like to, after the fifth unsuccessful warning, to apply the Rules of Procedure because you are not talking about the subject of the agenda, not to mention the amendment, even if you object. It's your right. I'm against stealing until 2013. I want to stop the theft, and you want to stop my warning. (President: Everything else you say has not been applied to this house. I am at your disposal, as my tolerance colleague, Mrs. Comic, would say, and I am less tolerated. This already goes beyond my limits of patience and this is really the last time. Please talk about the amendment, either for, or against. Thank you. I'm extremely sorry you didn't read this book "Political Fucker". There are many arguments I used in the discussion about the construction mafia. You know how sticky money is, it's stronger than glue. This is how coalitions are made: who can do more, like under the Blue Bridge, you have 25 euros – can. This is where the government heads the crime, Mr. Novakovic. This is a law that allows the government of the Republic of Serbia to cheer and dress, under the cover of saving the construction industry. What are they doing? They let some people not come to defend the law, but go across the street to the bar to count the money. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64868	The word has a folk letter, Miss Bulgarian Maria.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64869	The Honorable Chairman, respected, although few colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, the government's representative is not in our debate today in particular, and the answers to the questions I'm going to ask, I didn't expect to get them from the government's representatives. When there was a debate on the principle of these two laws, my colleagues and I talked about unnecessaryness and criticised these two laws, and especially because there are only five members in both laws, we did not consider it celibate to submit amendments for reasons that something not good could not be corrected either by amendments. We said, when there was a debate in principle, and I would also now point out again, statements from your representatives of the government, your government, over the last few years, that the crisis would bypass us, and then that the crisis was our only chance, and then that the crisis was over. Well, really, I don't see the purpose of passing this law. Mr. Dulic, I'm sorry he's not here today either, he hasn't answered my questions, he said five million people in the construction industry are out of work in the world. He didn't answer me how many people were out of work in Serbia. Also, the fact that from 2005 to 2011 there are fewer workers working in the construction industry every year in Serbia. That's the information that tells us that the construction industry is in and that the big problem and that, as he said, it's not safe to say. I don't see the construction industry being saved, and it won't be saved by the bill. Also, Mr. Dulic said at the time that the construction industry was saved, and then he claimed that there was hope for our construction industry, and he did not mention that in our construction industry there was chronic indifference and that they were the biggest debtors in the construction industry public budgets. Mr Dulic also said recently that he would ask the National Bank of Serbia to return mandatory participation for subsidised loans from 20% to 10%, even mentioned a 5% figure for participation. I'd like to ask the government, Mr. Dulic, if he's going to be able to do it and if it's going to happen in real life. We know the NBS said she wouldn't do it, so I'm interested in Mr. Dulic's position and the current ministry. Also, I would ask the current government and Mr. Resolute Minister - what will happen to the conditions for the subsidy, will they change after this law is passed? Will Mr. Dulic, who has promised the public that the conditions will change by reducing the age of the year, by changing the conditions around monthly incomes and interested in whether the current government and resolution minister will do so? Also, I'd like to ask the government if there are enough two billion dinars, as far as it's supposed to be for subsidized loans. What we from the Liberal Democratic Party also see as a problem in our country are absolutely slow procedures on all these issues, slow procedures when you go to the bank, slow procedures when you go to the Immobility Catastar. I'm sure, if that's possible, that this government can affect the Catastre of immovableity and make it easier for citizens to access all of this. Also, I'd like to ask what's going to happen to construction facilities that have been built for over 20 years. We have quite a lot of examples in Serbia, housing that are beginning to be built in the 1990s and which day stands and have no purpose. I have an example from my municipality where the building was started in 1990 to be built, to reach the third floor, then the contractor was "Hydrograd" from Cačka. Citizens bought these apartments, and that's what's been going on for 20 years. Also, the big problem in this country is a lot of damaged citizens in all of this. Many citizens paid for their apartments without even having the opportunity to see how far the construction of these apartments has arrived. Also in this law, what no one has mentioned is an environmental issue. I'm sorry, I'm saying, that Mr. Dulic isn't here because if we have a construction company like Putevi Užice, which is a very good construction company and that deals with low construction, that in its municipality, means he doesn't pay an environmental tax, and the citizens of the municipality, that is. The city of Užica cannot breathe from air pollution, which is largely contributed by "The Roads of Užica".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64870	Ms. Bulgarčić, as much as it was agreed with you or not, it is my duty only to warn you that this is an extremely simple amendment in which the importance of the law, therefore, which is already in force only extends until the end of 2012 but in 2013 and that is the proposal. So everything else is a huge problem facing construction in Serbia, and that's true, generally. It is also one of the reasons why we are discussing amendments and additions to that law, in order to make it possible to fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64871	That's exactly what I'm talking about, and I'm getting in touch with that amendment. The proposal for this amendment and the proposal for this law will not bring any new solutions, will not solve the problems of Serbian citizens and will not solve anything better or more effectively, nor will it solve an extension of importance until 2013. There's also no explanation for this law, as I said, not a letter, not a sentence on the chronic liquidity of the construction industry. In the end, I see that Mr. Novakovic signals me, on many occasions, in the end, I would say, neither this amendment nor this whole bill, nor both of these laws, for them you will not have the support of the LDP parliamentary group for the simple reason that it will not bring new improvements and will not bring anything good to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64872	Thank you, Miss Bulgarian. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64873	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As for the proposed amendment proposed by the SRS, I see another illogicality. The law was passed in 2010, its application being delayed instead of 2011, replaced by the word in 2012. Article 2 suggests that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. There's no legal logic here. To pass the law in 2010, to postpone its application in 2011 and then to postpone application for 2012 and to enter into force the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Novakovic, you are a man of profession and in the field of legal science, you can see for yourself one illogicality. If it waits since 2010, then in 2011, then in 2012, and in force the next day, and the Constitution says – the law enters into force, eight days per rule. So it is one remark that absolutely could not be easily accepted because it is necessary to safeguard the authority of the Serbian judiciary, that is, Serbian legislation. When it comes to encouraging the construction industry and building apartments in the Republic of Serbia, I would just remind myself where all the problems are being applied. Everyone's calling for a crisis, like there's never been a crisis. The crisis has been going on for years. The crisis has been going on for more than 20 years. We shouldn't just look back and show, well, it's the crisis. But is it our fault? What's to change? Mr. Novakovic, in my opinion, there is an urgent need to change the bankruptcy law. Of course, the government. It goes to the next election, changes power, that's logical, and this power is prone to fall. And the tree in the woods, when it fell away, it fell. You see, Mr. Novakovic, there are currently 70,000 companies in the blockade. Out of that number, 30,000 companies are ready for bankruptcy after automation. There is no job in our economy of about 250,000 workers, but only for these 30,000 bankruptcys that have to be carried out by automation, 30,000 bankruptcy managers should be hired. These "zumbuli" peel the skin off all Serbian citizens. These are parasites, which have been allowed to take over half a million euros in one case by the rules on the rewards and fees of bankruptcy managers, or to have 30 and 50 companies, i.e. the bankruptcy he runs. That's what Mr. Novakovic, which is very dangerous for us and this is what needs to be fought against. When it comes to the promotion of the construction industry, green interest banks should write off, part of that interest, to help the economy. Otherwise, they were allowed to use green interest. When it comes to the promotion of the construction industry, the state has allocated huge funds, millions, millions and billions for the construction of dwellings for displaced KIM and 650 apartments were to be built in Kosovo alone. What's the matter? Money from the taxpayers' budget, no one controlled, trusted one man and one group of people. That money wasn't controlled, they didn't file reports, no one was making a final bill, no one was running any construction books, no one was going to control and call for responsibility. Now the question has been raised – and who is responsible, and what have we been doing since 2000? That's the problem. They've just laid the foundations, but there's no building. Who stole the money? Who stole the money, Mr. Novakovic? I believe that this is a very difficult thing for you, too, and that this is really something that shouldn't have happened. Secondly, Mr. Novakovic, a block of hospitals is being built in Panchev. It was built by "Monter", a Belgrade company. They closed the contract, took the money, didn't finish, and now they've told the contractor, the investor, he says -- they're going bankrupt, and they took the money and left. Now the hospital remains to be unfinished for years, and it is known that the Panchea hospital is the worst hospital in terms of accommodation and health services provided to our citizens. That's where the construction industry is blocked, where it's blocked, only on such and similar examples. Mr. Novakovic, housing agencies have been established and established in our country to encourage housing to build apartments for refugees and wartime military disabled and socially endangered citizens. What happened? I asked the government a question to see how it was regulated in the field. This congregation has adopted the Law on Housing Agencys. I asked the government how many agencies we have, how many employees there are, how many apartments they built from 2007 to today and whether they have the right service and whether they hire intermediaries that burden taxpayers and go to the damages of residential construction. You see, there's a middleman's lawyer being paid for because he's privileged. It's paid for millions somewhere, and somewhere it's only paid for in a couple of months, 16 grand apiece. There are problems, and these housing agencies were supposed to help the construction industry. Let me just tell you a few numbers. The Kragujevac apartment agency has 17 employees, but has employees. The king has 24 employees, three lawyers. Kikinda has 12 employees, two lawyers, Smederevo has three employees and one lawyer. Panchevo has 22 employees and has one lawyer. He's got 21 employees, two lawyers. Nis has 14 employees, four lawyers. Belgrade's housing agency has 56 employees, but only six lawyers, but are represented in many of these municipalities and cities by public defenders.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64874	Mr. Jojic, this has been very instructive, but I ask you to link it to Mr. Maric's amendment in the next minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64875	I want Mr. Novakovic. Anyway, when it comes to the promotion of the construction industry, why are we in one city alone, or are we building thousands of apartments in it? Why aren't you in Pancheva, not in Vršc, not in Trstenik, Valjev, Kovin, White Church, Alibunar, Kovavica, Opova, Velika Plana, Valjevo and not to list? It wasn't necessary to concentrate everything on just one place and go to Stargazer or Vozdovac and send a message to the citizens from there. One message and one congratulations to the citizens of Serbia because someone will say – we will build 5,000 apartments in the coming years, and in fact we will not build so many apartments, not a third, but it is important that we make false promises and sell fog to citizens. Mr. Novakovic, you're aware that there is absolutely no more fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64876	Thank you. There's still 30 seconds left for the MP's group. I owe you an apology. I read when I moved to this fourth point that amendments were submitted by MPs Dusan Maric and Sreto Peric. I also apologize to Mr. Peric and Mr. Milan Škrbić, who submitted the amendment. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64877	Excuse me, how much time do I have? (President: You have seven minutes and 40 seconds left. ) It is an amendment that has been tabled by the SRS and which basically remains against such a way. I'll start with what you listed in the law's reasoning. This is also related to the objectives you set in the home law on the promotion of the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. In an explanation of the effects analysis, you stated: the proposed law will have the following positive effects – overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis, encouraging the development and employment of construction enterprises and ensuring the liquidity of this sector, encouraging the development and employment of domestic enterprises dealing with the production of construction materials, retaining the existing level of employment, encouraging economic development in the Republic of Serbia, resolving the current over-indebtedness of construction enterprises, preserving the resources of construction enterprises, increasing financial discipline and abolishing dumping and grey economy and working on black. These are very ambitious goals and effects that should follow this law. This is just a normative-legal extension of the importance of the deadline, without all the effects and all the incentive measures that must follow in order to have these effects. From the point of view of the SRS, this law must not be handed down. If the government really wants to improve the construction industry and to promote the construction industry as foreseen by law, amendments and additions to this law, why are you devoting? From the point of view of the SRS, let it be a deadline of 1,000 years, because these effects are so bombistic here. We don't mind that, but the situation is black in the construction industry. That's the problem. Is the construction industry really helping? No, I don't. What did the government do? When this law was passed, funds were allocated from certain funds, from the Development Fund, the Development Fund Act was amended to reach a certain accumulation that we will invest in residential construction. Nobody does that. You threw private capital out of the construction industry with such activities. That's disastrous. I'll illustrate it on the case. I often talked about it, but it has to be repeated over and over again, because it best shows the state of the construction industry. In 2008, 20,000 apartments built, 2009 4,000, 2010 2,500, this year no more than 1,500. Look who's downsized. It's not a percentage, it's a path, it's a 12 times smaller building of apartments, just because you don't encourage the construction industry. Nowhere in normal states does the state build apartments, there's no need for a battery that's small, which is poor. It's an empty budget. The deficit is in the budget. It can't be isolated from that budget. One set of activities, which includes various business activities, financial activities, the engagement of banks that will provide cheap housing funds, through certain fiscal incentives to the construction industry, through incentives in the employment of the construction industry and various other measures and activities and primarily interest a private investor, including an international investor to come to invest. Is that possible through this law? No, I don't. By this law you ruled out a private initiative, you put in a state initiative, and you finally got what you got, that 12 times the construction of the apartments was reduced. It's also at home, in other forms in the construction industry. It's very bad will have very negative effects. What's the state of employment? This is where you say employment will increase. The number of workers from year to year is decreasing. Here, in 2010, in this branch, there was something more than 85,000, and now there are about 73, 74,000 workers. What was the situation before the October revolution? About 300,000 workers worked indirectly and directly in the construction industry. In 2008, it was already around 150,000. How much is it today? About 73,000 today. And that information clearly tells us where the construction industry came from. It's a collapse of the construction industry. You can't improve it with these measures and these activities, because this isn't the real law that encourages the construction industry. We need to point out who's building in Serbia today. They are building Serbs who are in a lease with foreign investors. You don't even hide it. This is where Minister Mrkonjic comes to us and says, on the question of why foreigners do it, why do foreign companies get it, when we have good and high-quality construction contractors, who have been known, acknowledged, respected in the world and today do it around the world, why do they do it? He says they're funding. So whoever provides the money, he does. But he doesn't, he's a Serb. What's that foreign investor doing? He just picks up the margin and it's not unknown, 18% based on a closed contract with the state he has 18%, 18 dinars of 100 dinars is his. Then he makes deals with subcontractors and blackmails as much as he can blackmail. Our workers and our businesses have been spent by foreign investors. That's what we allowed. Why? Because we don't take loans from countries where we can take, where there are free banking markets, where there are far less interest, in the east, in Russia, in China, in Japan, in India. These banks want to finance here, but they can't go from Western banks. Western bankers come here, international financial institutions come here, blackmail and buy, buy ministers, buy negotiators and create what we currently have in the construction industry. Why is the SRS behind this? How do you get out of all this? Obviously you can't get out. We are doing an economic programme that looks at this problem in a completely different way, without complex systemic access to this area, there is no improvement in the construction industry. Healthy funds from international institutions, from domestic sources, must be invested in the construction industry. What sources? Privates who built, worked before this crisis, who today are building a set of other, fiscal measures, banking measures, bank loans that will be far cheaper and a set of other measures that will create conditions for improving the construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64878	Thank you. With this, you have used the time of the authorised representative and the time of the parliamentary group. If I understand correctly, you are against this amendment too. National MP Milan Skrbic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'd like to make an announcement to those who are invited by the President of the National Assembly to attend a session of the National Assembly. It is my opinion that it is an honor and I find it extremely rude that the invited session of the National Assembly does not come or even report. It is about senior adviser at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Ms. Maja Lakicevic and adviser at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning Branislav Djelic. That's what we do today's morning work. On the basis of Article 87, I set a break of up to 13.30 p.m., when we will continue with the next item of the agenda, a search in particular of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Agency for Economic Registers and the following.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64879	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session in the afternoon section of the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for Economic Registers. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, on the search in particulars of the Bills of Points 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, in addition to the representative of the promoters Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister, Nebojsa Cirić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, has called for meetings to attend: Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Zvonko Obradović, Director of the Agency for Business Registers and Miladin Maglov, Registrator at the Agency for Business Registers. Before opening the first of the search points in detail which were the subject of a joint principled search, I would remind the MPs that the representatives of the joint principled search on 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 were still, and were still, until we were informed of a different decision, MP Mladen Grujic, the NS MP, MP Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS MP, Milorad Buha, the SRS parliamentary group. If any of the parliamentary groups wish to empower one of their members, please inform us of this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. I also remind you that we have extended the work and that today we will work after 18.00 hours, and by the end, that is to say, the completion of the search in detail on the 9th item of the agenda, and that each president or authorised representative has 15 minutes of time at his disposal, the parliamentary group proportionally to the number of members of the parliamentary group in total time, and each applicant for an amendment of two minutes. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Agency for Economic Registers. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Toskovic, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Meso Omerović, Zlata Djerić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Srdjan Spasović, Dragan Svanović, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Radovan Radovan Radovanovanovic and Dusan Marić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Proposal to add a new member in front of Article 1. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia tabled an amendment that proposed that a new article be added in front of article 1. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64880	First of all, I'm going to make a little observation about getting an opinion and say that, when the Cinematography Act was at issue, it was unusually difficult for the government's representatives to spend their gentle hands to type names, even in that part of what we call a conditional-preamble opinion, so that they could count the MPs. You did it, and I thank you, but only wrote the MP group Forward Serbia – SNS. In the entire text of opinion we were not worthy, but we were a whole compact and beautiful, for you only a parliamentary group. You wrote here who proposed all the amendments, and I have to admit that I didn't lose much, that I didn't get to see an opinion earlier because we were working in the afternoon, so I'm going to explain this first amendment where we're asking to add a new Article 1, where I deliberately, completely, in principle, left out the key thing as a tip for the work of the Agency for Economic Registers, which is that it registers as a management and not as an agency. The whole principle debate was so intonated, where I called the Public Agency Act a false tower in a sinking Pisa. Since the law blames the tower in Pisa, it cannot be a tourist attraction and is kept as such, it should be corrected, not that all other laws are aligned with the wrong tower, especially yours, which deals with significant public registers. Just by adding Article 1, we are now summing it up in the basic definition of your responsibilities and functions by calling you and the law itself, as a law on registry administration. It is the only way that everything that you have provided for jurisdiction could be carried out in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, if you do so as an authority of the administration in the composition, where the state has direct jurisdiction, but also responsibility for the management of this kind of register. What am I explaining? In the rest of the law, in all further provisions, the word "age" is replaced by the word "government" in the corresponding decline. Therefore, public agencies are established under this applicable law which is very bad and imprecise for development, professional or regulatory matters of general interest. Regulatory agencies know who they are and I think they must remain as agencies, because there should be no direct political interference in their work, but political interference can never be avoided, because the way their bodies are chosen is the supervisory authorities, advisory bodies, etc., with a political source and background. This kind of business of running public registers can't be done under development or professional affairs, so there's no point in holding up the jobs you want to take, running as a public agency. What's interesting? Public agencies can be entrusted with public authority, but only the following. I quote the Law on Public Agencys – the adoption of regulations for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and Government, first-degree settlement in administrative matters, issuing documents and keeping records, and so on and so forth. The affairs of keeping the register absolutely cannot be within the scope of this. I will take the opportunity to open my cards to you completely in the first amendment and prepare you for a debate that will not be pleasant to the citizens or to you. I will make very correct remarks, as I delivered them in the principle debate. But since I was able to look at the draft budget law, I am already asking on the first amendment – how is it possible to introduce these new competences of business in the context of the text of the law that no financial means are needed for this? Do you want to explain to me what it means – specialized services in heading 20 of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, where public attention is sought, under the categorization of 424 of the "economic classification" shows up Agency for Foreign Investments with 508 million and something? Believe it or not, the Privatisation Agency has returned to the state manger and the budget. Now that there is no more money and for it is for 305.188.520 dinars and also for the Agency for Business Registers at the conclusion of Government No 05023-3680/2011-1 funds of 210.000.00 dinars. Now I could make a joke and say, come on, before we even discuss the budget in order to erase this purpose for you, because we don't need any means to implement this law, or as a moment, to cite a group with individual names of members of our parliamentary group and now, in one case with names in another without these two things, this law is signed by the same government, but there's no harmony or unity. You say - they don't need money, and the budget says - they need money. Even with regard to the Privatisation Agency for which I have the incredible surprise to appear again in the most difficult situation we have in recent decades in terms of the lack of funds which, for our own weaknesses and reasons, because of the echo of the financial crisis in the world, the second wave, or third, which is already one agency that has had a huge amount of money and at the time when it has had this huge amount of money, has not been able to account for which advisors will engage and pay in what process they are chosen, to which they will be awarded a reward for the privatisation process, while, Mr. Bubalo, it was such a silence, undefined 5% compensation for success and when he came, he made it perfectly clear that they knew. Once, Mr. Cvetkovic admitted that it remains for your privatisation agency and only the remaining change went into the budget. What was the initial sum, and what was change? We never found out. You are very kind to me, Mr. Kiric, in one answer to the question – and where and who the directors of the agency were, what property cards were then, what they are today, and whether they pay taxes on that difference that citizens who live in their neighborhood could answer what you had in your jurisdiction, which is - who is privatized, how many, what number, bankruptcy, break up, etc. But the point of how much abuse there was from the time there was money, we couldn't cross over about this. Based on my claim - abuses, because on every day: Tuesday, Thursday, we open the question – why didn't a contract break when it wasn't respected and what was sold to the company? Today I asked Elind of Nis, for 64 million, the stock was 120 million, repromaterial, unpaid claims in the sum of 200 million. How many cases are there? The number of broken privatisations rose from 25 to 33. And that body, which, when I asked for the budget money in my own time, and then it slipped out of the government's jurisdiction, I'm talking about agencies in principle, and why I suggest that this be management and not the agency, said they're funding themselves now. What is this today? There's no money, and now they're back here. They say, save yourself while you're out there, not when you're gone. Well, at the time of that golden rain of acquisitions, privatisation, etc. Is it possible that he had gone through so much money without being left behind? In order for that not to happen, Mr. Obradovic, you as someone who is educated, well-intentioned, I have no doubt at all, very ambitious, would have to be professionally honest enough, I suppose you're a lawyer, I don't know, to say that this kind of work, running public registers, because it's not a direct source for that kind of business, the Law of Public Agency, which is usually cataracted, and everyone interprets it as it suits him, in the sense that when it's good I don't need a state, I don't account for anyone, when it's wrong, Mom State ends everything. You'd have to accept it because in a professional sense, it could be a real foothold for you to do these jobs the right way, not as an agency, but as a registry board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64881	Eight minutes has been used since the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Minister Nebojsa Ciric, the honourable MPs allow me to welcome, in your name and in my name, the members of the cultural art society, the cultural education centre of Petrovac municipality on Mlavi, who are currently following part of our today session from the Velika Sala gallery and are with us: Marjan Janković, Vedrana Babić, Ivan Perić, Dragana Florilović, Sanja Armus, Željko Petrović, Biljana Vujčić, Milan Kjetic-Marković, Anita Miladanovic, Lidija Radojević, Darko Kostić, Srdjan Stojilović, Vladjan Lukić, Sanja Jević, Tanja Jevremović, Tanja Milić, Ivana Milosavljevic, Sanja Stević, Milan Milošević, Milović, Milica Pavelić and Slaviš Milošević. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64882	I thank the chairman. I'll take the opportunity to welcome my dear guests to the gallery. Dear Mrs. Tabakovic, before I answer your question directly, I'm just going to go back to what you said in the end about abuses. You also mentioned the Privatisation Agency. Just to finish, I apologize, you answer the word, I'll listen very carefully. Thirty percent of all privatisations, slightly over, are basically broken. This is enough to say that despite certain arguments, whether contracts are purchased, whether they are auctions or tenders, they are being checked. On the other hand, if there is a basis to say whether someone is through certain abuses in the sale, i.e. buying, running a company, I have to tell you that it's not a job of the Privatisation Agency, it's a job of the prosecution and there are, I think we'll agree, indeed, with quality people and quality institutions that can and should be dealt with. To relate to what you said. What I could answer you, I answered. What I neither have data, nor can I get that data, with all due respect, I can't answer. On your specific question, I must say that I disagree with you that the management or management of public registers, however you wish, should be done by management. I think the Agency for Business Registers is certainly one of the best, most positive, brightest, call what you will, the case of our agencies, the agency that has been named one of the best agencies for economic registers in Europe at all international associations. I think it shows enough that foreign experts, people who deal with this area in EU countries, characterise and categorize this agency as one of the most successful state agencies in Serbia and beyond. In particular, the Agency for Business Registers shall keep public registers. However, on the other hand, it provides different services, electronic services, if I may tell clients, or users of services, whether they are reports of bonity and other things. I'll give you one specific piece of information. The Business Registers Agency processed 709.000 items last year. On 709.0 cases, they received about 100 objections. This is measured, the percentage of the objection, i.e. the grudges on their work, is measured in divergences. I haven't really heard, personally, it's being built up, there might be an observation, that the agency isn't effective and that it doesn't provide its services in time or in a way that could be defined as unskilled and inefficient. As for your question, yes, the implementation of this law requires additional funding. You're right, the 2012 budget costs 210,000,000 dinars. I'll tell you what it's for. We had conversations and a dilemma about whether or not to put 210,000,000 into the budget. Now you have about 30,000,000 documents, something called a central economic archive that is not central, located in military warehouses, National Bank, police, some firms, etc. As a state, I hope you agree, we should have a central economic archive. He should be in one place. It needs to be protected. This represents history in the economic sense of this country, the present and the future. It's a place where they need to systemize and centralize all the documents. The price is 210 million dinars. We had the opportunity to raise 210 million dinars by raising the tariff level and passing this on to the economy and service users. We decided to ask 210 million dinars and we got out of the budget and I think the other members of the government have accepted the necessity, I would say, to create a central economic archive. In that sense, 210 million dinars for the non-function of the Agency for Business Registers, but for the creation, for the accommodation of the central economic archive. That's the purpose of the 210 million dinars. Besides, we haven't asked for any additional funds, especially in terms of the implementation of this law, nor will we ask. Once again I come back and understand your argument, or question – whether it should be management. In most cases, if this is significant, if we believe that the EU or most of the EU countries that have developed democracies and even more developed economies, when we set up the Agency for Business Registers, it is much more effective that you have an institution that will deal with both public registers and the provision of these services. Such experience is in the EU countries that we have seen. I agree with you, there are examples where there are inside the state, if I may say, management, I will absolutely not deny, in most cases there is an Agency for Economic Registers, or an agency that deals with the management of these registers. For this reason, I said that I disagree that we should return to management and therefore we were unable to accept your amendment – inserting Article 1, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64883	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64884	Can it be a replica, can I be brief? First of all, I'd like a lot of time to talk to the most accurate dictionary, not you and me, but us at all. Mrs. Komic and I like to say – when we talk to someone, we should listen. Yes, breaking privatisations is a provision, but it's not entirely accurate. The number went up from 25 to 30, and you don't say when they're broken up, how many workers had to strike, put pressure on it, and whether they were broken up when the terms of the termination were off by contract, or you give one stay, the other, while the sale, is due, the company comes in such a situation. Not all cases were like that, but there are such gods to a significant extent. So it's not enough to say – we were responsible and we broke up just as an agency, because such a determination doesn't mean enough. It means something, but it's not accurate enough. What's the big deal? You say the agency was praised, one of the best. Who's to say hello? I just don't want to piss you off and say - he won the award in time and Mr Dinkic as the best finance minister, and today some proposals can't be measured. I don't want to talk about it. You have to get the commendation, I, anyone, agency, company from the service user. This commendation cannot be obtained from a user of services that has not received greater legal certainty, who will have to write a reasoned request and taxi it, and this proposal will even make it a state itself. He'll have to ask, and you explain it, someone needs to sit down and work. The enquiries are complicated, some software is involved, etc. You're explaining yourself that it's going to be a self-financed agency. No, it won't be a "perpetum mobile" mechanism, but users of services, citizens or beyond budgets, like these 210 million, will have to pay. Why do you have 709 thousand cases and a little complaints? Because you refused, for example, one of the amendments when we talked about classification of action. You refused the possibility of someone complaining about the wrong classification. You didn't give the right to whom you classify as too heavy an action to object at all. Then you can't tell me – there's no objection. I think the world experience is mostly to be management because of the nature of the register and I'm staying in the position that this should be a register, and in the further discussion, we'll exchange arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64885	Minister Nebojsa Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64886	Let me just tell you for a second. Here, specifically, I totally agree with you, if we can call them, external praises may be important, and may not be, but I agree with you that criticism or commendation of the user are absolutely in place number one and should be in place number one. I told you, at 709 thousand cases in 2010, and we'll see how many will be in 2011, there were about 100 objections. That's, if I've calculated correctly, about 0.01% of the objections. I think that says enough about what the quality of this agency's work is. As far as the classification is concerned, it's a statistical matter. I didn't hear anyone complain about the classification, at least I didn't hear it. There are colleagues and directors, chief registrators, and I really don't have the information that anyone is complaining about the classification of the Agency for Economic Registers. Just one more thing. As for the breakup, the increase in the number of breakups, the percentage of broken contracts, generally took place in the last two, two and a half years. With about 10, 12 or 13%, we came from the total number of privatisations, now on, I think, and over 30%. So it's still being taken care of. We can discuss individual cases from one company to another, but it is also enhanced control in terms of respect for the contract and respect for investment and social obligations, etc. I think it says that, however, the Agency for Privatisation and the State controls customers, regardless of whether they are physical or legal persons, whether they are companies sold through auction or tender, control the fulfillment of these contracts. I'm saying, there's, of course, the possibility that somewhere a mistake was made, that somewhere earlier it should have been broken up, but some of the things that are done aren't easy to check, so it takes some time to check whether someone really did something or didn't, and it was a contractual obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64887	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64888	The story of this law is indistinguishable from the story of the next law, which is the procedure for enrolment, or registration. So when I say that you didn't allow for the wrong classification, I'm actually talking about the predication of the mostly active activity, and about the timely proposal for a law on classification of activity, where you, as an agency, took over the responsibilities that the Bureau of Statistics had at the time, and then the statistical authority. In 2008, it was the first proposal. Now, I'm going to tell you, in this proposal for a law on classification of activity, and when you enter a notice on registration of activity, we have, in time, had an amendment that when someone incorrectly classifies you, me as an economic operator, to ask the Agency for Business Registers to change the classification, I also keep my manuscript, but also an original amendment, that this registration can be changed with a reasoned request if we submit the necessary evidence. You refused to tell anyone – I should be classy, and now you boast to me that you have no objections. You have also disabled in one of these formal parts the possibility of making remarks, or complaints. When you say 3%, you know, in statistics, in terms of 1,000 cases, one man who has kidney cancer and needs surgery, if he has feochrocythoma syndrome, cancer of the adrenal gland, can't take anaesthesia because he's going to stay on the table, in 1001 is a fatal case. What's it worth to be the one in a thousand, if that happens to the one you like? So, I know it's impossible to eliminate a mistake, a complaint, an objection, but that commendation internally by the user must be that it allows, not like this here -- once a year's objections to work, but to allow a man in a two-stage procedure, as it has been for centuries and the world, to exercise his right in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64889	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64890	I don't think we understand each other. In no way does the Agency for Economic Registers nor assumes, nor does it claim to assume the competences of other institutions. I'll tell you in particular. When a newly opened firm is given a PIB, the FIB is formally handing over the Agency for Business Registers. The Agency for Business Registers shall take that PIB electronically from the Tax Administration. When a new firm gets a home number, that number gets an electronic route from Statistics. The classification is not done by the Agency for Economic Registers, the classification is done by the Republic Bureau for Statistics, which gives it by electronic means to the Agency for Economic Registers, the Agency for Economic Registers teaches it, conditionally speaking, since it is a classification, it presents it. There's no jurisdiction here just to make it easier for a job, when you form a firm, for example, so you don't go to the tax administration counter, the PIO fund, the RZO. It was an idea and it was a request of the economy, to make so-called. "Un stop shop," so that in one place when you sign up, you get a home number, a PIB, a classification decision, etc. It was an idea. Institutions that have done so, such as the RZZ, such as the Tax Administration and others, they continue to do so, only in this sense do they not assume jurisdiction in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64891	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64892	Mr. Kiriq, I could really finish the debate with the next two sentences right now. You have now given the best explanation for the rest of the remarks that, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I have held in principle debate. What gives you the right to call the database, formed like you said, by downloading data from other organizations, by calling it your property? In Article 2, and we will continue to come, form something called a database, you call it your property because you produce it. You've given an explanation that it's not actually a fact and I thank you very much for the explanation you've given.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64893	Minister Nebojsa Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64894	The property is the Republic of Serbia, not the Agency itself or any of us owner. The Agency for Business Registers performs certain actions and provides services for and on behalf of, if I may say so, the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64895	The word is from MP Velimir Ilic, president of the NS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64896	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased that you have entered a controversy with the MP, that you want to commend both your work and the work of the Agency and the service, that it is all going electronically, that it is quite accelerated, etc. Mr. Minister, I want to explain to you that businesses in Serbia are almost gone. They all shut down, choked. Now we're trying to make through some amendments some last move so everything doesn't go to waste. I'm very glad that you give optimistic statements every day and say you have extraordinary results. That's nice. You, Mr. Minister, have completely destroyed certain cities economically. You've completely destroyed the economy. You'll be free to make a mistake at a privatization chipper and admit a mistake, when she now owes 15 billion, while the one who bought it, how he bought it and destroyed it, and now the villagers have nowhere to sell potatoes, farmers from five municipalities, where the man who has 400 acres of potatoes on the Cave left it to hate this cold and don't know what to do with it, and you don't know what to do with the factory that was one of the best in the Balkans. Do you know that one of the best toll companies, the local low-building, you sold it to a man I've known for 20 years, I wouldn't let a hen keep it, and you gave it to him. He came into the company with a shovel, beat up the workers and now it's slow going on, and the company's failed, debts, loans, liabilities, and now the company's raised billions of debts. What do we do with her now? Did you know there's no one there to patch up the holes on the road because there's no company? The Strabart is coming, so when he gets a better job, he goes to another town, gets a bigger job. There's no one to cast salt to clean the snow, Mr. Minister. You destroyed the giants. One PIC "Such" has been completely destroyed. Now, you explain to me, we who are major producers of brandy in Serbia, where we will now have brandy when all the distilleries with the Serbian brand, take the basements "Tavo", "Cacchanka", "Serbianku", no longer exist. What are the villagers going to do now, go sell on a bottle on the street? People cut their food and sold the Germans a kilo and made millions. That's where they opened Idea, they opened furniture stores, etc. Walk around Serbia for a little while, if I want to, I'll take you out for free, so you can see what you've done. The companies that were Serbian brand, they don't exist anymore, they're gone, but it's important that we e-mail, we're happy, everything goes. When discussing this topic in parliament, at the end of the year, see – 10 MPs. Mr. Minister, the failed economy. Have you seen some of the cities you're talking about exist, and now that the budget's being made, they're in a major crisis, they're giving up huge resources to survive, and I'm listening to praises about them over the years. One political reckoning towards certain environments was and it is still going on. Mr. Minister, you're an artist. Destroying one of the "Belgrade" PPs, that was art. It was the best road company in Southeast Europe. Destroying the Nis PP, the Kragujevac PP, the Vražnja PP, destroy the Duke's Way, the Backput, do you ever wonder – what are you doing? Now you're going to tell us that the Agency for Business Registers is operating perfectly, tax administration, etc. That's right, the tax administration works best for you, but the people, the businessmen, will no longer exist, you will be left with the tax administration and your debt seekers who go from day to day. Do you know how many objects today are required to pay taxes on property, and they're all empty, nobody's doing anything? Do you know what interest is, 23%? The other day I asked your extremely great expert, one of the directors – how, Director, now to solve something if it doesn't work for a year, there's no job, there's no interest in doing it, and he says – the only way to avoid paying is to destroy an object. It's his idea. So I really don't understand you. Do you live somewhere in the clouds, instead of coming here and trying with us these amendments to do, to push this out a little bit, to dress it up, to tighten it up, to look at these failed privatisations, to see what else can be done, to fix something. You're telling us now about big business, big successes, the praises you get. Who do you get your praises from, just tell me that? Did one of the businessmen commend you? Only Miskovic, of course. He's your right hand. I see it the other day. He's at all the meetings. Is he the prime minister? If it is, you're welcome to say so. Let's write him the amendments, talk to him, bring him here, and he'll answer our questions. He avoided you from paying for all your obligations to this country. He owes the most to this country. He owes the most to the Serbian economy. He destroyed the Serbian economy, that's what I'm signing. He wanted to go everywhere, although I told him to hang out at the same time. Now you've stopped construction to sell his flats he worked for the University. Do you know, this morning I'm listening to the news of the poor workers down there, killed by Serbs, whose company is the minister? Dinkic's brother from his aunt. You know who he is, so I was the director of this Zlatanović, I forced him out, and now he's running investments, and his family over there should be banned from doing construction, I drove them away as a minister. But they now run investments in sports, they have construction firms, they do sewers and plumbing, and bridges, and halls, and everything. What does that look like? Where's that going? Innocent people are suffering. Are you going to do something about it? You now want to start construction, start the road economy, open the highway now, now you've found Metro to open ahead of New Year's, elections are ministers in two, three months, they're asking questions. You've finished your career. This is one of the last congregations, there will be this one for the budget and the end. There's another one coming. Don't tell empty stories now. So you and your messengers won't listen. The businessmen won't listen to you, because they know what you're saying doesn't matter. I haven't wanted to discuss anything in days. I'm listening and I'm watching this work, and what's really going on here. We're keeping things out of the way, so Europe doesn't want us to be the way we are, so we've passed those laws, and the agencies, and we've changed the amendments, so we've adjusted everything, but they won't. And why won't we? What we're economically on our knees, which is approaching 30%, which is politicized, which is shared on a political basis, which you've been campaigning for regions for over a year, Minister. Minister who authorized you to run the campaign, and the economy doesn't exist. Wherever I move, I see you there in the campaign, in the regions of Serbia, you Kalanovicka and the team. Wear some helmets, come on, and we'll put some blue helmets in here. What kind of helmet do you wear, where you participate, blue helmets... . (President: National MP, please bring both helmets and economic situation and all your remarks to the agenda topic, the draft amendments and additions to the law are on the agenda... This is all about Mrs. Chomićka. If he were in a relationship, I wouldn't interrupt you. Please listen to me. You are required to listen to the chairman. Nine minutes and 30 seconds I listen very carefully to you, you once used a sentence – we are talking about the Agency Act and business registers, and then it was an argument that is your right and please, at least a little bit about the topic of the agenda. Here you go. Mrs. Comic, I really don't want to spoil your day, so let's discuss something else, that you're nervous... (President: There is no way for you to ruin my day but there is a way that you and I respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. ) I will interrupt, there is no problem, I am pleased when you are smiling and satisfied and overjoyed and I would not spoil your day in this House. So I'll sit down, but I'm warning you, there are thousands of problems. Mrs. Komic, there will be someone else sitting here in a very short time. He'll have to solve these problems, too. Please turn to the problem that is current. Put these amendments through, through all of this, to fix something at the end of the year if you can, and you can do it a little bit. Now we have a Privatisation Committee, some people we pray, we push, we beg, let people work something out. Let people work, get paid. It's all your electronics that you'll be tracking. It's a waste of your correspondence. For nothing, the tax administration will be effective, but there's no one left to take it from because it doesn't undress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64897	Ten minutes and 30 seconds used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64898	Mr. Ilichu, don't go now. I don't have much to say now that Mr. Ilic's gone. He obviously wouldn't listen to the answers. I wanted to answer him for the chipper who's from Chuck, his hometown, just to remind him that he's never been to my place, nor asked him to come to me about the chipsars from Chacka, and we're having a chipper problem because he knows who's the chipper from Chačka, that the man who owns the place was arrested, that it's taken away from the property, and that this company is now in bankruptcy and that we're trying to get together with the workers to publish the ad and try to find some real strategic partner for "Pik Cacak". As far as the roads and others are concerned, it is known how many roads were made in the term of Mr Ilic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64899	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64900	The reasons for this amendment are essentially the same explanation as for the previous amendment. It concerns that we should establish this authority as an authority of the administration, not as an agency. That this phenomenon of the agency is a phenomenon that Europe is now struggling with, bringing the number of agencies to the necessary. Indeed, none of the countries in the environment that tends to be a regulated and civilised state retains the level and form of agency organisations except in regulatory bodies that really need to be independent, such as telecommunications, energy, but it all comes down to four, five agencies more. To me, I really don't know how to talk, or you didn't expect the draft budget to arrive on time, that we would adopt this first. I am now reading your answers, i.e. an opinion on the amendments that we have submitted and you say in one part – funds for the order of the agency are not provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia etc., etc. That's not true. Here's what you admitted. I saw you say 210 million. What is it we don't see? I say, every budget is from one year to the next due to the change in the structure of the ministries and the takeover of responsibilities, according to that chair transfer system and the furniture in the apartment, no longer possible for comparison in terms of employees, costs and ways of funding some parts where we never have the handover of duties, the list of pending cases, the problematic things, so that we can do something comparable about it. On the other hand, we don't get a report from the auditors in time, and we don't have a revised budget report for the previous year so that we can talk on the ground, and how much these agencies are actually spending. I'll just say it again, if it were an authority of the administration, the state would have a direct insight over it and, for example, you'd be an agency that's been commendable and successful so far. You ran business registers, perhaps it was interesting to introduce with such infrastructure at least information that it was not done by Sabic, how much such organisations and agencies were founded in relation to economic operators. So I'm trying to count all the administrations, agencies, organizations and 981 pages in these 1,000 pages, and then until next session, believe me, it's morning. So we have no way of getting insight into what the state is funding in terms of investment, costs, the benefit of citizens. You're making it untransparent to us that you're organizing as an agency, but you're even giving us false information saying that it's not going to finance the budget. So, I insist that the nature of the business, the register must be in the capacity of the administration's authority in the composition and that the state, regardless of who runs it, has jurisdiction. This is no longer a matter of whether you have one look, the other, whether it's a political determination in the far future and light or less light, this is meant by the definition of things as a business of the state. It's not a good thing, but I have to make a comparison. Mr. Markovic, the minister of local self-government very much opposed the way the Serbian government's responsible minister for handing over parent books in this complicated situation of registries, such as parent books. If it was property, as you say here, and it says, you produce bases, we'll talk about it. If it were to be decided by a public agency director, we wouldn't know about it, nor would we hear about it, nor would it be the subject of debate, as we could not be here as a Assembly to get any information about the salaries that the gentlemen receive, and turn around, set up a budget and eventually return to the budget. I absolutely have nothing against the jobs you're going to do, I have against undefined things, transitional and final provisions and establishing something in the registration process but, you know, the state is the state of all of us and you can't take over the state business and do it as the Agency, because it's not good for you, for me, for the economy, for our children and for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64901	It was used three minutes from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilović and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The committees in charge have not spoken out, so the Parliament will decide in the day to vote. The amendment is under review. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64902	Dear Ministers, the respected chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, I am pleased that Minister Ciric has, and at all, those who have accepted the amendment, hearing about the amendments. New Serbia, as always, is constructively trying to fix the laws, as the president of New Serbia said earlier, is actively involved. To avoid confusion, Mr. Ilic went to the Privatisation Committee, so don't think that in any way he wanted to not enter into any controversy, perhaps even some small depression. Who is the path, Minister, worked here is not the topic, but the people will say in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64903	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64904	Thank you. What I couldn't tell the other guy, I'll tell you. You know, at least as far as the laws my ministry is proposing, every amendment that's real, if I may say so, will be accepted. We have adopted 11 of the 63 amendments to all three laws. I didn't see if the amendment was a position or opposition, but only whether the amendment is good or not, but I did say what I said about roads and in terms of – if we can stick to the topic, which is these three laws, and we can talk about both the chips and the roads and the flats and the PZP Belgrade-Bačka road and when it's privatised both at a time that governments and who was the buyer etc., but I don't think that, of course, I'll speak for myself, this is neither the place nor the time for that. That's why I said it, and I said who built the roads and how it worked. After all, in five months, Serbian citizens will say, we do not need to speak for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64905	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction, the Legislative Committee has not declared itself. The amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64906	We asked you to be in Article 1. The proposals in paragraphs 3 and 5) and 6 shall be deleted. It is said that the jobs listed in these points 5) and 6) fall into technical issues related to basic activities and there is simply no need for them to be regulated by law. The regulation that the Management Board can decide that the Agency does other tasks is not in line with the Public Agency Act, because it knows exactly what they are establishing and threatens to start, in such a way as to give a wide range of job opportunities, the Agency starts to deal with various affairs, to uncontrollably expand its activity and to turn into a company that deals with commercial affairs. I think it can become unfair competition for the private sector in that case. The financing of the development and implementation of these additional actions is not from some of your assets but from public revenues, and that is why it is unfair competition, because you and when you charge, what you call self-financing, the compensation from the jobs done again, is something that is public income, just came a different way. My experience from the time the "Serbishum" came to the "water of Mivela" and to the production of spices suggest that the state has its undisputed role and it cannot give up its roles. I can't have transnational companies running tax and fiscal policies and we can't before we have to create favourable conditions to deprive our tax revenues budget. That's one side. The state must ensure peace, contract control, citizens' security, education and health care, but they cannot now start dealing with commercial activities, as the organisation used to do. It's not the freshest I remember - "Serbishum". So we're talking about something preventive not when you're expanding so much, so when it becomes reality, oh, and what do we do now. The moment you create that database you're complaining about and say we should have an archive, we should. You said last time you know how hard it was to encrypt the material, encrypt all these actions, you can talk to the younger ones, I'm 51 years old, 31 years of work experience as a graduate economist, and I know there's no job that can't be done. One big Telecom encrypted its material four years ago and made a lot of savings in control of the material and release records. There are right untold problems, unsolvable but insolvent, impossible to solve, Professor. Zivojin Perić wrote about it, but there are no jobs that can't be done, some are harder, some are less difficult, but don't do things in that ambition to take over jobs where you take people, so as that resourceful cold man when he's gone to eat and he says, "Give me a piece of bread and just a little cheese, then I've got some bread left, give me some cheese, now I've got some cheese, give me some bread. So the uncontrollably uncontrollable ones who think at some point they can achieve everything and don't need to at that moment, and this is the moment, we're giving you the opportunity to spread so uncontrollably. Everyone should do their job to do it best, and tomorrow someone should not defend himself by overloading, from the mobbing-known system of the crowded table and say – a small number of people, and large jobs, big obligations. Stick to what your job is, and it's your first job to ensure the economy that what's listed in the Business Registers Agency is safe, that I can easily access these data and know who I'm dealing with, whether it's connected companies, whether it's based on a false intention like a man can't sign up to live in a home address and he's just trying to get some right, tax release or vote for someone. It's your basic job, the Business Registers Agency. Please be a little more modest at this point and limit yourself to what your business is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64907	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the deputy president's time. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64908	Mrs. Tabakovic, I can't agree with you to spread uncontrollably. Currently, there are 15 registers in the Agency for Business Registers. Each of these registers, i.e. the keeping of these registers, is precise and defined by law, by a special law adopted. For these 15 registers, 15 laws have been passed in the Assembly, so that the Agency for Business Registers cannot take over now the register of disqualified persons or I don't know who, the law must, the Government, Parliament, talk, discuss, and then they can manage certain registers, so that in that sense I can't agree with you that this is uncontrollable enlargement. It's just that every one of the registers that's being run in the Agency, the way it's run, what's going on in the register is defined by law. There are 15 such laws that define the work of the Agency for Economic Registers within the meaning of these 15 registers or competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64909	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64910	We're in the middle of a debate, and you've touched the very essence of the problem we're in as a state, in my confidence. The Agency leads, you say in law, the law established registers as centralized databases, 15 plus 16 other registers set out by law. I can tell you that out of these 15, 13 were adopted this year. What does that mean? We have adopted new laws in this year's productive activities, and in each of these laws, we have predicted that some records or registers are not run by the previous organisation, but that they cross over to you. So it hasn't been like that since the weekend. It's us, and the laws change here. Don't quote someone, and then they'll say it's gone into worship. Wait, that's what we're making. What's going on? Anything you pass by law and establish, see what happens later in the budget. In an explanation, 306 said – regulations establishing the basis for financing expenditure and expenditure. The one who hangs on the budget register, who finds his little tube pulling money from the budget, which is called the law, leaves any future minister, perhaps to you, but in some new function, who knows who, not at all, I don't have that personal relationship, the right where someone will have to say – how to get him off the budget register now, he has the right to do so. When you had a debate this morning, you weren't, and it doesn't matter who it's being run about, you say. The apartments, this one says, we'll see who got the apartments, the one or this one. Well, it was under some law. There's no law that can be more legal and some less legal. It's my endeavor not to pass laws that change jobs, for example. Keeping a register from one organization to another, there are people who have been doing that job, you're getting new ones, and then you show up at my budget with, now I'm going to tell you how many laws, by 306, the font of someone minus, I can barely read it, and I don't have a vision so weak, there's no sign of numerical how much law establishes law, but there are -- the law of borrowing, foundations, railways, planning, prevention, money laundering, miracle. We've changed it five times, and you wonder who could buy what. So, just increasing the number of loans at the beginning of this 1,000-page book and just increasing the number of legally based rights that someone in the budget draws money. So it's not enough that you tell me – we have 15 registers. Well, we've established them, rather than who. They didn't fall off the march. Does this economy have the power to withstand all these jobs and new responsibilities, and they don't get fired there, and you take a new job. Well, that's the story of bread and cheese, which I told you. Have a measure. In life, the basic thing to have is to have a measure. We're here in the Assembly, angry who or not, taking some action to ask some questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays and ask for information, can be talked about, can't be too long. Sometimes you put together a debate so that we can't even talk about some things, but that's one way of finding a measure of time that can't be lost here, but it's a useful waste. You too find a measure in established new obligations for new bodies that the economy can no longer endure. Many obligations towards the state of economy pay no more from income, but by eliminating the substance itself, i.e. by closing the company, i.e. by false avoidance, exiting the VAT, fleeing to cobwebs, etc. You know it a little better than I do, but more precisely, Mr. Ciric, you deliver it when we go to the Fifth Interparliamentary Union in Brussels, and a much smaller version of the report here to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I have one and the other here, I can take it out and show it. It says here – subsidies are not well recorded and that is one of the reasons why you have this international support to establish this type of register, in order to control the subsidies that follow the regulations. But I said, I lost track of Mr. Obradovic's promotion when he promoted his new project. A team of people from the Department of Sports and the Ministry of Finance sat in front of me. They were surprised that no one consulted, and you can go ahead and deny me, or the people of the Ministry of Finance who run the state aid control, and you want to do it here, how to do it. No one consulted, there was a very capable Mrs. from the Department of Sports, who immediately knew how to ask a question and say – you don't tell me what donations are and what donations are. Now tell me I'm wrong. Fifty of you sat there listening. So instead of people who know how to say what's missing in the records, how to unite them, how to fold the existing registers into one, without always doing the house from the ground, but to expand and build where it's supposed to be, no, you want everything from the beginning. What matters is you're significant, you're important. You don't have to adopt my proposal to be management. I know, you're adopting mostly technical amendments. It's the right thing to do. Once we are, if we are, we may act differently, perhaps the same, who knows. You don't adopt the essential amendments or very, very rarely, and I remember you, Mr. Ciric, when we talked about companies, a few important and essential amendments you promised me, so God knows what's behind you every time something new opens, he probably said -- stop, he can't. I understand that, too. I know it won't change the world, but we spend a lot of time here not to improve things, but to complicate them. That's my request. Don't complicate the old, use the knowledge of the people they have. Ask Mrs. Comic when someone should give the task of information technologies what to include in the economics. Only one who can make a request, because he knows the nature of the job, can ask you a question and, for example, ask him. A software-based IT officer answers that question. I've had years of experience and I know what that means, but don't question the elemental logic. Not when I say – increases through party financing what goes to parties 50% more. No, you say it's not. Here's the budget, arrived, more than 50% compared to last year. They say coefficients, mathematics is inexorable. Don't listen to excuses tomorrow, don't say – we thought we could. Let's fix this today. It doesn't matter much now. And I have work to do to take this budget a little more seriously by Monday. Maybe you can adopt something. I don't like sitting here, and I'm sick. I'm happy to sit here, but it's not easy for me. I really don't think it's right that you're not consulting within the government enough and not using existing bases. We've got the Public Debt Administration for so long, and today we're arguing about what the height of the public debt is. What kind of registers are these? None. Let's argue whether it's an IMF coverage or a World Bank. Don't act crazy. The guarantee has to be covered as our credit obligation. When I guarantee my sister a loan, as a jury, they treat me pretty good at the Credit Bureau less credit-worthy, it doesn't matter that minus her current account didn't fall on my burden. What does Mr. Cvetkovic, as a doctor of the economy, not know that the guarantee is not only a non-sustainable record, but it must be an obligation, but that it is not a shame to say here – 150% will drop our guarantee more on the burden because our public enterprises are working at a loss? This isn't out of the question. It's got to be the whole thing. That coach, whatever the driver is, has to keep you all together to achieve more results at less cost. The Minimax principle in the economy is not going to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64911	The time of the group's deputy president and six minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Minister Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64912	Thank you. What you said at the end is, in fact, the essence of the Agency for Economic Registers, that in economic terms, we have a greater impact at less cost. For example, the tariff of the Agency for Business Registers, or tariffs, did not change, seems to me, for two or three years. Of some 150,000 financial reports this year, 80% and 126, respectively, were submitted electronically without any cost to the economic operator. The idea of this whole story, I'm going back to what we talked about half an hour ago, is to make one place where we're going to cut the business costs of our business entities. The guillotine regulations among other things, on a proposal for the same economy that you and I are talking about, because we're both economists, was to make one place. Whether you're going to one place to get a PIB, a home number, a classification decision or to go to six counters, savings and time and money. We've calculated what that savings is. Only this electronic state of financial reports, instead of you coming or your employee taking it and handing it over, savings are about 50 to 60 million dinars per year. That's all. Not to say how much savings it is when you leave, I repeat again to the PIO fund counter, the RZO, whatever, it's measured by tens of millions of euros, savings at the level of the country's economy. You will agree that any savings, or any reduction in the cost of economy in these difficult conditions, should be welcomed, not criticised. One more thing, these 15 registers, jurisdiction over these registers is given by 15 laws. These laws were not adopted this year, but in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Now, if you're saying that the Assembly has no measure in terms of the law, I don't know how to figure it out, since I'm a guest here. One more thing to tell you, you were speaking at the end of your presentation on the register of incentive measures. The register of incentive measures, among other things, let me tell you, is a participant in the design of the register of incentive measures by the Ministry of Finance and some other ministry. It's not a job, nor can it be a physical, essential, however you like, a register of incentive monitors without the participation of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Infrastructure, Agriculture, all of those state institutions that provide incentives, subsidies or whatever you want. That's what the regulation says. The register of incentive measures implies the obligation to enter data. What is the idea for both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia? The idea is that what we haven't had so far, we have, and that's that in one place, anyone who works for a country or anyone who cares about it, you or your colleagues and colleagues from parliament, can get as much as at every moment, every decade, a subsidy of incentives, at which end of Serbia, in which an industrial branch and what's most important is the effect of giving these incentives, or subsidies. What do you get out of it? That's what we haven't had so far and what we're trying to establish right now. I think that's, I'd say, a step in the right direction and we should say hello. Is there a technical problem or difficulty in creating that? Yeah, especially when you're making something for the first time. Software, so that we don't pay different consultants, we try to develop software ourselves, just to save taxpayers' money. Once again I say, it's an idea, and everybody's involved. It doesn't exist and it's not, I have to tell you, the register of incentive measures, subsidies are given by the Ministry of Agriculture, Economy, Infrastructure, etc. And it goes through the Ministry of Finance, but that's the measure, the register of incentive measures is really a step forward, where in one place we'll have a systematicized what is what, or more specifically, what the taxpayers' money is spent on and whether or not the cost of that money has any effect. I have to tell you about the amendments, of these 11 amendments that I've accepted, I think four or five of them are yours, where I think they are, or all of us who work together, and we write laws together, and we analyze the amendments, where we think they should be accepted, we'll accept them. I'll remind you, you're in last session, I think, where I've been, I've accepted some of your amendments on the spot. In this case, amendments concerning, and your amendments are essential, accepting amendments on the absence of an Agency for Economic Registers, or reintroducing administration, if I may say so, is a fundamental amendment, but I cannot accept it, because I disagree with the argument, and I have to tell you that. We can discuss the efficiency of some privatisation agencies, business registers, for all agencies, I don't know how many there are. (President: There are 130.) There are 130 different agencies. But I think it's better to observe, and I'll tell you why I say it, the efficiency and mode of work of each of those agencies, whatever it is -- registers, privatisation, energy efficiency, etc. I cannot accept this argument, nor the amendment that there is no agency, but management, because I personally know how the Privatisation Agency works. I have a large number of people coming from the economy, from the middle, and small and large enterprises and managers and owners, and rarely when I heard a complaint from one of them about the work of the APR. What most of them point out is, in fact, that they have reduced their costs, allowed them to spend less time in contact with bureaucracy, and more time on the ground and on the market, trying to make that money more for their company and their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64913	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64914	I'm a very controlled waste of time, but what I'm going to do is I have to because I think this is a very correct and quality debate, immodest for me and you, but it means something to me. Don't think for a moment that I'm attacking the Agency for Economic Registers. As far as I'm concerned, it used to be the business courts that did it the best way. There were no frauds like this. Never mind, I'm a conservative woman. Maybe this is better. However, do not mix subsidies with something that I said for a little while as a remark to the lady from the Ministry of Sports, who rightly said – nobody asked me, and they do not know that they make the difference between donations and donations. Donation as something to which the Red Cross, various NGOs, etc. has the right to the budget, was the case of sports organisations and donations, as grants received by some organisations, in terms of records. Now you tell me – you can get the information. Wait, Mr. Kiriqu. You give me for the right minimax principle – minimum costs, maximum results. What's the use of me getting that? Do you think I'm so unemployed, so now I'm going to read those "thousands of why thousands" books? The benefit should be an appropriate moment and the least cost is what we need most. What do we need most? That there are no blocked frauds, that there's going to be, that this knot is unscrupulous in pay traffic, that employment starts. I apologize for the finger, but remember, you and I were on the show, where I made a lot of remarks to you about how to pay and disband that knot, which was totally inappropriate. It's nice to have information and it's nice to have a gold mirror, but what do I need it for? I don't need that when I had to turn the heat off in my apartment. So, what should be invested into Serbia in this state of economy and new levels of development and wealth? After six billion spent subsidies, after many parliamentary issues, what is left unaccounted for as state aid and tax-free, for example, in the Fiat project in Kragujevac, is it listed as state aid? I'm telling you there's no such thing. Why have you been giving subsidies to regulations for years today? So, when we entered that assembly in 2007, we were in the old building, I told you -- there can't be any aid to regulations, there must be a law that prescribes the delivery criteria. You can't have some regulation in the lobby, you know, the most impeccable hallway to be hung, about the allocation of funds. We all know how to do it. We all know what it's like not to come in. Let me just mention the Lipaks company. Yeah, that Lipaks company that gets a non-immediate loan, so it's making a conversion from dinar to euro, so it helps what you're going to run as a financial lease for subsidized procurement of tractors, trucks and the like. That's what we'll open up when the budget comes. I won't forget that. I mentioned it to you in 2009. In 2010, the SNS provided you with data, that you have a return of 0.17 per dinar through taxes and contributions that you immediately charge for newly opened jobs. At least the money should be returned to the dinar. In the third year, the project would have to bring income. Today, you, when it's gone 6 billion, are starting to create a base for assessing the effects of the funds invested. Mr. Kiriq, you've been around the world. Don't do any specializations, in 1964 that Maknamara worked in America as a defence minister in the U.S. government – planning, programming, budgeting. You know what's being programmed, when it's being monitored, and what effect it takes to bring some kind of project. Dinar, a dollar citizen is very big and must be followed. I don't argue that this is now run by the Business Registers Agency. Don't, please, destroy the cinema, or the movies, so we're passing the law. So what? We'll have a new budget user again. You say no, it's not. Yeah, we'll have a new one. What's the new record? United ticket sales where they're going to write both the title and the number and everything. Someone's gonna do it again, they're gonna be some fiscal cashier, unified exchange offices, and so on and so forth. Only the sights of principles on which money is certainly earned are repeated. What about the free action story? Who must have taken the money? Those intermediaries, the brokers who freed the citizens from direct cost payments, but that's why the state paid them through the budget. Don't underestimate us in terms of our approach, the Croat neighbors would say, when we take this to work. Don't let our memory, or memory as a source of information, because we keep papers, I have huge archives, when we give you the best advice. So, I have nothing against the Agency for Business Registers, on the contrary, I have against why they shouldn't check the data, as you haven't checked your privatisation prospectus, so we're where we are today. So, for your sake, as you have now begun to talk about employment, about controlling this, you needed a lot sooner. In 2002, Mr. Zivkovic, who worked at the Ministry of Foreign Relations, was asked – does he have a record? I keep that number "Today," interview with him. They asked him -- do you have donation records? He says no, we haven't introduced that yet. How is that possible? He says -- you know, we don't go to Mars either, we don't run what investments are for once travel to Mars. It used to be possible, sometimes you didn't know you were making a Libyan check, but the National Bank gave it to the Republic government, which is inconceivable. But in 2011, we say that we need to go backwards and forget what happened, and now we're establishing data, now that we have at least, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64915	Six minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64916	Thank you. As for state aid, I can't speak for the Ministry of Economy. We regularly report, since when there is a commitment, every taxpayer's money being treated as state aid. I can't guarantee for the others. What I know is for me. As for the subsidy issues, i.e. the subsidisation of the economy, there is absolute records, for example, for 2011, to whom, when and how much money was given. As for subsidized sales and tractors and buses and construction machines and car construction, that money goes to companies. We as a government or as a ministry give money in contrast to price, subsidize sales, and each of these factories that receives, if I may say, help, or that kind of incentive or subsidy, must justify it specifically, whether it made tractors, trucks, buses, cars, whether it was a remounted locomotive, etc. In terms of helping the car construction industry, whether a car factory in Serbia built a car, first they tell us, and then the railway Serbia tells us – yes, we received the wagon of that and that serial number, etc. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going back to the register of incentives and measures, and I don't know why it hasn't been done before. I don't know, but what I can know, what I know and what I can tell you, is that, after all, it's better ever than never. There were other priorities. What's important is to say whether it's a good measure or not. Is that a step in the right direction, in the right direction or not? We can keep going back to 2001, I haven't heard who this gentleman you said, Zivkovic, or 1998, 1999, was there in various governments of various wrong moves. It is very easy, from my experience I can say, being a general after the battle, so say – that should have been done differently. I agree with you, some things should have happened before, some things shouldn't have been done, but what I can say is right now. We need to say whether this particular one is, because that's what we're talking about, the register of incentives is good or not, whether this country, the people, the taxpayers, whatever you want, or not. I think so. Of course, you now have information about what the ministry is giving to subsidies, who they're going to, but this is the idea of registering incentives to be united in one place and that instead of now adding, if I may say so, it encourages with not knowing how many addresses, so effects, etc., to be united. But again, I do not think that this in any way reduces the first essence of the functioning and existence of the Agency for Economic Registers as an agency and its efficiency and way of managing business, managing registers and providing services, especially from a cost aspect, or economic efficiency, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64917	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64918	Mr. Kiric, neither are you anyone new who came to the government now with a reconstruction of this in March of the month, this remaken government, nor are you anyone who did not know and who did not hear the warnings coming from this side that the efficiency control of the funds that go through the subsidies should be put in place. I'll just say one sentence. I was Minister for Economic and Property Transformation, which was then called, from 24 March 1998 to 24 October 2000. Neither the federal institution "Borba", or the rest of what is called "Novosti", was sold, after which it was problematic, nor was the Beocinian cement factory, Novi Popovac, what was Kosjerić as a cementary, nor was any privatised company left behind as problematic, as sold, nor should it be disputed, or "Policy", or read, or strategic action, or any of the proceedings I conducted. You know why? Because my associates helped me, but they didn't tell me what to do. I've been doing my job. I'm proud of that period. Proud and proud of their then-to-be employers who never asked me to help anyone with letters and numbers, except for an explanation, in addition to the laws that were in force. Yes, Mr. Seselj. So, neither Nikolic, nor Seselj, nor anyone. It was--Yorgianka, you know, you do what you think is right and right by the law. She worked behind me, too, and other bright traces and good human relations. That's why I have the right to tell you. But what do I have the right to say specifically? Why do you not listen at the time when you are told – what little is there, see how you spend? In 2009, you give a zero-dollar loan to Lipeks, 0% interest over the fund. Twelve months of grace period. Listen, you're an economist. There's no amount. There's no important element. What is the significance of this company? Lizing house that allows for the purchase of tractors, cars and trucks. Now listen! The Fund transfers the amount of interest licking home in advance for each year, to the amount of the dinar equivalent of the financial lease per the national bank's middle rate on the day of payment of interest for that year. Have the citizens ever had such conditions? Who wouldn't send under these conditions? You get a cash-free loan, you get a secure job, a piece of interest gets you up front at the annual level, you turn money into euro, the dinar is further weakened, and at the end of the year those 4% in the dinars, which you had as an obligation, what's it worth? So, I'm not talking today, this is what Jorgenka was talking about at a press conference and here at the Assembly to discuss these organizations. This is the important difference between you and us, not us as opposition and you as authorities, but as a way of seeing and leading the state and economics by means. It's not my goal to make you personally smarter and better, of course, I want to be the one, but my goal is not to waste our resources in vain, not to fill our pockets with someone we don't need, but to make life possible for the largest number of citizens, to make it easier and better. For you and for me, it's the difference when we say that citizens live better. You have one target group, and I want everyone to live better. Many here felt the vengeance of that middle class that suffered in the 1990s. I am personally happy that I have no anger, no desire for revenge against those who have done me harm and left me without a job and were fired and miracles were happening. And we're alive and well. They say a healthy man can get through anything, and I have those who are no longer alive who could not bear that injustice. But I can't say at some personal loss - I'll keep my mouth shut, so I won't tell you what a good solution is. We've been warning you all along. You can't by regulations, where you tie up the local administration, the Foreign Investment Agency, the local level where your community presidents are, to keep a circle, because one day it snaps. A failed Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, you turn it into a Regional Development Agency. Guys, let's not do that. How will you ask someone to be responsible when the government has now made a billion and 400, something called an inadmissible misuse of funds deliberately stalling with the procedure of signing the contract for the non-conditional building "Aeroengineering", the 2010 budget was reached, in February of the month, by a signed contract with the Directorate, the procurement started on 3 November. It's late. We need a negotiation procedure. For six months, all public procurement bonds did not make those irregularities. Who are you going to pursue and put into order when you as a state, as a government that should lead and lead, so that the citizens follow her, when we talk all the time, we warn, we pray, and so on? You're telling me about cutting the rules. How many times I've said it here - pregnant women, pregnant women, you've damaged by having to pay taxes even when they're on sick leave. Well, you see that pregnant women don't abuse your resources, you see that in all other places you save, except where you have the most opportunities -- specialized services. Here I read – the privatisation agency again on the budget. That's the problem. So I have no other reason than to say that when I say - citizens and general interest, I really mean it. I mean it. Leave me a high standard of responsible behavior to manage him. Don't lower the level of responsibility because any of you will be able to be better. I would like to impose ourselves here on who has better solutions, and not to say, we choose between two evils, which is less. That's my goal, and that's the motive of all these amendments, all of this city, I'm carrying three bags, I'm going to take my shoulder off because everything I'm talking about right now, I have a document here with me. You know why? Not only is the future uncertain, but also the past, people like to forget, and Mr. Jacquart Leako is today analyzing the development of what is called financial capitalism in the crisis, prophesying a brief history of the future. From that history, from what has happened, let us learn good lessons, not to repeat mistakes, if we have a little honor and intelligence. I wanted to say I'm not gonna answer again, so I can't. I don't know, maybe she's provoking me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64919	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64920	Please, President, you're a lovely and gentle lady, but don't mind, you put in a fifth and drive like 220 an hour. We just explained that article 2. Why did we create a problem in that amendment? When you say "produce" the base. Do not produce your money, you are funded by citizens with public incomes, I said – specialized services. Nowhere in the legal theory, this can't be something that's just your job, and it's government business, and that's why it's supposed to be management. And in this Article 4, we have made remarks on the tariff, which is brought by the board of directors, and we ask that, in accordance with the Law on Public Agencys, you, Mr. Obradovic, do not get any new powers and ask for both the systematization and the compensation, and I really do not think that for all, as we have stated in the amendment, for the procedures and the actions for which compensation from this article is paid, an administrative fee is not paid. It's got to be precise. and the amount of compensation cannot be higher than the level of the administrative fee prescribed for such a procedure or operation. He admitted Mr. Ciric that you are, in fact, taking over data and not doing some new creativity to the extent that you can determine the price of these fees is enormous and the amendment is in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64921	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment To Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64922	A little time to spend on this. We've had two amendments to Article 4, as much as I'm talking in a wide procedure, I'm holding a concentration. Article 4, you quickly ran over to me, this second one, where we asked that you couldn't deliver to the state authorities at will or not to deliver the data. I say it can't be – it can be. You have to have that obligation, it's your parents, the founders. It can't work like that. In Article 6, we asked that Article 6 simply be deleted because the appointment of expert advisory bodies for strategic, development and methodological issues from the ranks of recognised domestic and international experts in the field of agency affairs is something that is most growing. Who gives that license to someone? Only someone close to politics has the ability to go to counseling, to have a registered job, to be recognized as someone you will respect in this way. It is already, in some ways, narrowing down the circle of the best people who, if they have any attitude or their spine, cannot easily, with politicians and politicians, come into the circle of those you will respect as professional bodies. I ask that we do this in general, not all of us, so that those who are obedient may not be expert. Loyalty is needed in terms of teamwork rather than loyalty to be given to us by someone for the right and his professional, licensed recognition of reputation in the service of something that is currently the wish of the director of any organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64923	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the minister is not here right now, he may hear, on behalf of the SRS, I would say that the amazing political leniency Mr. Ciric is talking to us today. This political leniency, after chaos, vehement and economic destruction left behind by him and all his party members who have been dominantly controlling the economy and the fiscal movements in this country for 10 years, is quite casual. I don't know why. When someone who is a government minister and a party member who has been a permanent party for 10 years in power tells you - I don't know why we don't have a register of incentives, I don't know who might be in the government today or from the representatives of the ruling majority to tell us why we don't have it? I am deeply convinced that every government official, especially from Mr. Kiric's party, would wash his hands of it. We don't know why we don't have it. The Serbian Radical Party is aware that both Mr Ciric and all his and his party and coalition friends and friends know that the register of these incentives and measures has not been very trendy so far defined, because largely both incentives and such measures have been politically colored, they have been politically inspired. If it had been a register, there would have been many more clues that would have entered everything that today represents the economic defeat of this country. And when subsidies, when it comes to measures, the SRS only reminds you of one thing: the money that was given to create jobs, individuals spent on vacations and vacations abroad. That's why we don't have the registers. Imagine if everything had been registered and entered into the papers, how many today would be past the prosecution and criminal proceedings? But we deeply believe that despite this problem, we're going to get into a situation where one day we're going through all of this and we're going to see what's going on. After someone said, we don't know how we'd behave if we were in power. Maybe the same as you. The SRS has no dilemma, they would behave in a diamentally different way than you who have been harassing Serbia for 10 years. We believe that in the first year of the term of office, it would have been effective. We're not going to attack the Agency for Business Registers, but you know very well what the position of the SRS is when it comes to agencies. We're against agencies because we think they're para-state institutions. They're over 130. What Mr. Ciric said earlier: "This is the one that made the step". This agency is not successful because it's an agency. This body, this organisation, this institution is different from the others because of the nature of the work that it is doing and it has not become a successful and good agency because it is an agency, and you have not founded it because it is a good practice that has proved to be worth it in Serbia. It is a European practice, but you have a minister who conducts in Serbia a European practice, which sits in the government of the Republic of Serbia and tells you that agencies are an anti-constitutional category. The position of the Minister of State Administration is identical to that of the SRS, which has been telling you for years. This doesn't mean you have to defend this agency from the SRS. Anything or anyone, who is in the function of the easier functioning of the economy, entrepreneurs, businesses, is welcome, whatever it is called, but of the 130 agencies that exist, the meaning of its existence justified one or two. The objective question is whether, as such, they should be in such an organisational form to survive, because our Constitution does not predict them. Mr. Ciric spoke earlier: Privatisation Agency – 70%, 30% of broken contracts. I appreciate his leniency, but Mr. Ciric was supposed to show up last week at a public hearing he organised, instead of the Privatisation Committee, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, so that with this courage and courage, he would appear in front of 150 people, robbed and destroyed by various privatisation procedures, so that he could come out and tell them what he was telling us here, to see how successful it was. It was the agencies, but it's a completely different nature of the agency's business and this agency that we're talking about today. That agency was largely inspired, formed, poisoned by politics, crime, and there's no room for that. When we talk about this agency, we welcome a procedure as easy as possible, but essentially let the minister say how much at the monthly, quarterly, annual level more economic operators are shut down in Serbia than they are starting. Those are the answers he needs to talk about. To give us answers not to boast of measures and incentives that no result has ever been given. We can't just cheat on the public anymore and deceive the public. It's just, we can't go out in front of the citizens with the data and the facts. That's what our reality is, and that's why I think everything you propose to the MPs doesn't make any sense or credibility. Now look at this, this is the member I submitted to, of course, on behalf of the SRS member he regulates, Article 10, and the jurisdiction of a member of the 10 powers of directors. Among other things, the new proposal for geniuses from the government is that it can appoint professional advisory bodies for strategic development and meteorological issues from the ranks of recognised, domestic and foreign, domestic and international experts in the areas concerned by the agency's affairs. Now, look, the SRS here has suggested that the Director can appoint professional bodies exclusively from domestic experts in this area. The government, of course, refused. But now listen to this brilliant explanation. It says – the amendment is rejected for the reason why the proposed formulation does not exclude the advantage of domestic experts. I had no intention here, Mr. Minister, of giving domestic experts an advantage over the side. I wanted to rule out foreign experts here. Because I believe that Serbia has enough of its brains that you have pushed into the seal, dealing with your affairs and coalition relations. It says – because under international experts there is also an international recognition of domestic experts. Well, if so, Mr. Kiric, what did you generally indicate whose experts, then why didn't you write here that professional advisory bodies for these issues would be from the ranks of recognised experts in this area? Why did you need to name it domestic and international? To be able to take the other sides, or so on, so-called foreign experts to push here on contracts and pay them. That's the kind of possibility you want to predict. You see, the SRS thinks this could be one chance for the state to show its will to engage in this situation. You see, the SRS thinks this could be a good chance for the state to show its will, to engage in this situation exclusively with domestic brains. Because you say yourself that domestics can be internationally recognized. What's so controversial about being just homework? Why can't we spend money of our own, or of course from our own incomes, on our own. In ten years your authority, Mr. Minister, the trend of leaving this country has not stopped. He's been promoted, and you're funding someone else's mind. We think that by accepting this kind of attitude, the state does not commit sin, but shows a very interesting, healthy attitude and determination that this country finally shows concern. If you want to spend money, Mr. Kiric, train these people abroad to be adequate experts, but make sure that they are bound, Mr. Kiric, to return for that money and serve their country. To serve its economy, its education, its health care, its agriculture and all the segments of our economic life. It's a responsible national attitude and national behavior, not to pay for the world's experts if they're so valuable and smart to be sold on the market of their countries. What assures us we don't have enough homework? We do, Mr. Kiric, except you don't want to see her because you have to give priority to those who have mastered you for the last ten years and play with you. Here you must preserve both the authority and the identity of the state and you who perform those functions. Mr. Kiric, the state must be interested in this people to change their relationship with her. You can't do that. That's what the state has to do when you change, it has to be two-way. They can't respect a country that turns its back like this. Give me an example. That's how the SRS sees this. Give it a chance to be only domestic people, domestic experts, because domestic experts can be internationally recognized as you said. Look what you said to me in the last sentence. It says – it is necessary to enable the agency to hire both domestic and foreign experts internationally. To hire both domestic and foreign experts internationally. You won't accept and hire those who don't admit it, but they have to be domestic, that they have ID cards, that they're paid there, and that they pay taxes there, that they're left with the money. That's the point and that's the meaning of the message. It's not a sin and it's a good decision of the government and you have to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64925	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. I'm sorry, Mr. Ziric wants a word. He's got Mrs Tabakovic's word after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64926	Thank you, President. I completely agree with you, and I think you should have our people's priority, domestic experts. But there are situations, Mr. Stevanovic, when we have no knowledge and we have to hire someone from abroad. The domestic foreign expert is not only a natural person but also a legal person, for example, an IBM firm or whatever. And these are certified, acknowledged experts, as you called them. I don't see what's going on here. This formulation here only gives freedom that when we can't hire domestic experts, we hire internationals. As far as this proposal of yours is concerned, I fully support and welcome it, that we need to invest more in the education and training of our people. Here, the Agency for Business Registers of its young people, its workers, especially from the IT sector, and sends to train abroad. The essence of the APR function is based on good information, good software and hardware. That's why I'm glad you support it, and that's why the Agency for Business Registers sends young people abroad to be trained there, and then we don't take foreign experts and experts, but to be our people. In that case, we would not take donations, loans, but rather be people who are in the Agency for Business Registers daily and they would do so at no extra cost. I think what you said on the line is what we do. Once again, this just leaves room for maneuvering where we don't have such knowledge, and in some segments we're lagging behind and we need to train more, more to learn or more to invest in education, whatever you want, but only to have little freedom to hire someone who might know it a little bit better than we do. So it's an exception, not a rule. I agree with you, and the rule is that the software that develops works for domestic companies, domestics, but there are some situations where we don't know what to do. Because we're not the smartest people in the world to know everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64927	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64928	We have submitted an amendment to Article 6 to add Article 6a. where we actually predict that the registrar is appointed exclusively on the basis of a public competition. So, if we're telling the story in public -- the departmentalization, if we're aware that we live in party capitalism, and the list all advocates the departmentalization of functions, the least we need to do is to adopt this amendment. State administration and provisions of Article 52. In fact, the Constitution and international conventions require that public access to the affairs of this kind be ensured by competition. On the other hand, it is necessary for the public to exist in the employment of the state administration precisely because of the elimination of the possibility of corruption, i.e. preventing conditions to do so. The least I expected from you is that as a representative, it doesn't matter whether you're a member or not, the party you represent to show in part that you're in favour of a competition to assign functions, not just that - board members, competitions, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64929	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64930	Mrs. Tabakovic, the director of the Agency is elected in a public competition. There are four registries in the Agency for Business Registers. I think Mr. Maglow is here, too, and the other registrars are this fourth or fifth government. None of them are members of any party. They were in government and 2005, 2006, 2007 and now. So, just about the departmentalization or depolitisation, he'll still be registrators. After all, I have not heard the remark on their work and their professionalism, nor on their knowledge and expertise in doing daily work. So the director of the APR is elected in a public competition. The registrars, since it's a special kind of job, have a special procedure. But once again, and here is the registrar, Mr. Maglov and the other three of his colleagues and colleagues, this is their fourth or fifth government. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64931	Thank you. Mrs Tabakovic called again, but I'd give you my word because you're in the topic right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64932	What did you just say? Are they not members of any party? Excuse me, Madam President of the Assembly, the distinguished expert in his field is a member of the party, I am an economist, a member of the party, and we do not lack that. That doesn't mean we do our job less professionally. It has nothing to do with what we're asking for public access through the contest to be a way of hiring people who do the registrar's job as very important, and I have no objection. It's simple, somehow pre-prepared to guard you defend against every good proposal here. Neither is a man who is less professional in the party if he deals with the profession and if he is smart, working and diligent, anyone, nor is he who has done it for several years and has turned more governments into advantages. Maybe the man's sick of it, maybe he's not as interested in working as he is, but the mandated functions for functional jobs aren't for nothing, they just need to enable a little fresh power, just like you just said -- we don't all know ourselves, they should come to us on the side. Well, those people need new clothes, too, so they don't have to be irreplaceable. I'm not saying this with anything that sounds negative, they need to be left behind by young good people who will know how to do business. In that sense, it's this, not like a political parole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64933	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64934	At first, do you want me to praise first or do you want me to criticize first?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64935	Criticize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64936	If you want me to criticize you first, then I must draw attention that it is your fault that Serbia did not receive candidate status on December 9th for the start of accession talks, etc. Look at page 23's explanation. – the provisions of EU rules, the provisions contained, the provisions of the regulations, the provisions contained in the provisions, and the harmonisation of the provisions, the reasons etc. You haven't aligned anything with the EU. It all says "uncoordinated", "uncoordinated". You have not harmonised the subject matter of the law, registration of founding acts and statutes - uncorresponded, the duration of society - uncoordinated, changes in founding acts - uncoordinated, MPs - non-coordinated, supervisory board - non-coordinated, financial report - non-coordinated, change of seat - non-coordinated. You didn't match anything with the EU. Then whoever out of the blue is Angela Merkel, as Will Ravijoyl says, there is nothing. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Kiric, you are a young man, a perspective, this basic law was passed in 2004. Then it was you in government, DSS, okay. Then I criticized you and the SRS for the whole context of the agencies, we're not going to do it again now, because you insisted against the SRS, so we came to a table and some agencies. Now we have an agency on the left, right, up, down, for all we have agencies. You think that's funny? You know, it just costs a lot. It costs taxpayers, and if they don't pay right away, you're in charge, and it costs them again. You're talking about trusted state affairs. I just have to remind you of one thing, it's not a practice like this, that there are real agencies for business registers, in some countries when it comes to business registers, that's what courts do, and that's two leading EU countries, two pillars. They don't give it to agencies, but if it's authentic state affairs, it's undeniable. Mr. Kiric, you've written here the 15 registers that are being conducted in this agency and I have to tell you right now, you've had to change the name of the law a little bit. It would no longer be the Business Registers Agency Act, it could now be the Registers Agency, because it's much wider. What do you got? You have business entities, financial leases, that's what killed citizens, public texts, associations, foreign associations, chambers, tourism, bankruptcy, debt, foundations, associations. Since it's classified business, then the question is, is there another institution or state body running a register? There is, each ministry has a register and all of them, based on the relevant provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, issue assurances on the data contained in the records, which is governed by a state body in accordance with the law. Is that right? That's right. Now, if you wanted to unite this whole thing, to cut all these rules from Slobodan Milosevic's period, it's Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, they're going to remove all traces of the Slobodan Milosevic period, then I'm rebelled by one thing - why didn't you open a record register of value, to be with your agency? Why did you leave that lady there? She's very expensive for the state. Those at the Business Registers Agency would have done it in no time. It wouldn't be that expensive. We don't need to make science out of computers now, from the information system, so the Agency probably has a good system, it works, it works, it's what these computers would say. However, Mr. Kiric, I must warn you. You had to reprimand Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you had to open 17 registers in this agency. It's a register of stolen mandates. Why are you laughing? I'm saying this very seriously. Did you take a look at the National Assembly site? The stolen mandates of the Serbian Radical Party, and those people who stole the mandates are still members of the Serbian Radical Party. It's just for a non-harmonised record. Don't exactly brag about your records. You see, you built Orwell's machine, but you're missing something. So, the register of stolen mandates. Next, you had to open up the register, again funny to you, duties per capita towards banks in the European Union. On the basis of that register, you would see that every citizen owes 3,000 euros and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic is in debt, and Mrs. Comic is in debt, and Mr. Novakovic is in debt. I don't mind what they're supposed to say right now, but I don't want to be in debt. The European Union didn't give me any money, I didn't ask them for any money. Someone put us in charge, Mr. Kiric, you probably know him. Now the tabane of the local communities, he says - his grandfather's first place, his black grass comes first, Pinosava comes first, he comes first. He hides like a snake's feet, so no one can take him as a G17 plus. When all this is looked at, Mr. Kiric, there's room for innovation. You can put all the registers and all the records on that agency, and then there'd be some justification, to be honest. However, some of this has become quite surreal in these registers. An epochal advantage has been made. You come online, it's "apr" and it opens, so you can do a search, so you put in those symbols to decrypt, not to break into any hackers, etc. But I'm humbled by something that comes out of there. I've got a lot of humble data coming out of that. Then I go to the street, and I ask around, and I bring that file of yours that I copied from your register, and I come to one location, and I ask, this is where it turns out that this and this is where the company is. They say, "Who told you this is lying to you?" I can't be lied to by the Agency for Business Registers. She's got better data than BIA. He says it doesn't matter. He says -- do you see this facility, this company, it can write whatever it wants in the register, we know who owns it, we know who's bringing the job, so if it's "Intercop", whether it's "Jip Komertz", whether it's "BM", Bambi Miljkovic. We know all that. Wait, what's in the register? It shows – tie the cat to the tail. There's something wrong with your computer. So everything's hungry at first sight, and inside it's miserable. Why? Because Mr. Ciric has to cut veins that Serbia does not go to the EU. Eleven years are being chased headlessly towards the EU and everything is being accepted from the EU. One minute it stops, there's an orientation in time and space, and we see, Mr. Kiric, Black Grass all around us. Every place - Black grass. Since you, Mr. Ciric, are a great fighter for the truth, justice and economic prosperity of the Republic of Serbia, I recommend you start criminal proceedings against everyone who has ever worked at the Privatisation Agency, starting with Vladimir Cupic. You know who he is, the first director of the Agency. You can do the other one. Do you know who else was? Mirko Cvetkovic. You won't do anything wrong. Doesn't it seem a little strange to you that the "Longing" tire factory is more expensive than "Sartid," judging by the memoirandum? That's how it turns out to be news. Thirteen million euros, and there was 23 million dollars. If you don't know anything about Sartida, arrest Labus. Mr. Kiric, I made a little effort to publish on the Internet a little film about G17 plus, as the Americans made them, that NED, that spy organization founded by Ronald Reagan. And who was the first protagonist G17 plus? That Vukotic, then in a row. A very educational example, 23 minutes of film. It's all clear to you, I hope it's even clearer to the audience, but look at that movie, too, it'll be instructive. As far as this register of stolen mandates is concerned, open it. I would like to give you an immediate proposal on who can be the registrar, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. She remained recorded in the history of democracy and parliamentaryism as the woman who chaired when she made one party that did not even participate in the elections. She was proud to do so, since it was a condition for the trip to the EU. There, wave, cheerleading, cheerleading, everything's fine, just spread the black grass to 192 places.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64937	Mr. Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64938	Given that the minister accepted the basic thesis presented in Mr. Stevanovic's amendment, I think it is appropriate to make it official. However, the background of all that has been presented in this amendment and the background of all the phenomena that we have when we legally leave the possibility of forming and legally leaving the possibility for the directors or someone else in the public system to form certain commissions, certain advices, then we have made a hole out of which we all come out, and the most money comes out. The minister knows very well, given that on several occasions we from the SRS have asked for information and asked parliamentary questions, about how much money goes to certain consulting houses, consulting services. Then we got catastrophic data, that's real data, except they show what's going on in that area. The privatisation agency, according to data received from 2002 to 2008, paid on the basis of consulting services over four billion dinars. That's about 60m euros. How do you do that? Simply, the moment the privatisation contract is concluded, a consultant who performs affairs, legal expert, financial, construction and others is coming in, making a contract and carrying out a capital assessment, one of the jobs. Imagine we don't know the value of our capital in the 21st century. After all the reforms and after all the jobs, there's gonna be someone to do it, and as a rule, it's done in 10-15 days, then we get the data, but we get the invoices. How are the invoices? The invoices are catastrophic. These are 60m euros in invoices. It's the same situation when a contract is terminated, then we have a situation to set up a representative of state capital. The first thing a state capital agent does, he first puts himself in company acts and the second thing, immediately hires a value assessment expert. It's a contract, and in seven or eight days, we're getting value data, but we're getting a invoice. What are the invoices? Astronomeric. That's why this amendment is Mr. Stevanovic, in which he asks to limit it. Imagine, we in the system that we finance from the budget have 530,000 workers. In that number, out of 530,000 workers, we don't have two, three, five workers who know the job, we have hundreds, thousands, and academics, and doctors and magistrates, and economists and lawyers, etc. Everyone from the profession. That can't be allowed. It cannot be allowed during a period of crisis, during a period of social misery. That can't be allowed. But since you're creating conditions for robbery, for crime, we also have a robbery in practice, and crime, and that's exactly the way it is. The law leaves the possibility to form advice, to form a commission, and it ends in the end with a huge invoice paid by the agency, and then goes half-and-a-half. It's a bad habit. We tell you that, we point to it, and we say, "Don't do it." Don't do it, you have professional people, you have institutes, you have colleges, you have independent experts who can do it. Anyone who wants to go on a patriotic, patriotic basis, whoever wants to. Whoever won't, we won't pay for it, we don't have where. We don't need that data. Imagine, when you take a company balance, so it says everything, if we took it a little more seriously, what other information do we need? We don't need any other information, but we need to raise money. That's tragic. You're involved in crime. We're talking, we're pointing and we're asking you not to. But it's obvious that until the power changes and some people end up in prison, this anomaly won't be able to correct itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64939	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64940	We have submitted two amendments to Article 8, and this first one concerns ways, or deadlines in which objections and proposals can be placed, where we are asking for an amendment to be specified when these proposals and remarks can be put in place. I mean, not to be the solution you've made in the bill, to be once a year without knowing when it is. you have an obligation to allow users to give their opinion on the work and quality of services. We find it difficult to expect whether someone will be satisfied with it, to collect remarks that there are at some point that we don't know. I know what a calendar year is, I know what a budget year is, there's some parole years, so to speak, but there's really no precise determination here. I suppose you've found a solution here, too, not to wait for a later opinion or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64941	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64942	Article 8 refers to the Agency’s relationship with its users. To make it more clear to the viewers, I'll read the first two attitudes we've proposed. First position – The Agency shall have an obligation to enable users at least once a year to give their views on its work and quality of services and to propose a way of improving them, which shall be drawn up a specific report which shall become an integral part of the Agency's annual work report. A second position – it must be possible for users to make their observations, proposals related to the Agency’s work either orally, in writing, by telephone or by electronic means. We've suggested to be in position one. "at least once a year" deletes and remains a formulation -- the Agency has an obligation to allow users to give their opinions on its work, etc. They're delivering. In the second position - users must be allowed to make their remarks, proposals related to the Agency's work by written means. The government rejected the amendment with the following explanation – the amendment is rejected for the reason that the formulation of the Bill's proposal, "at least one year", "orally, in writing, telephone" does not restrict users of the Agency's services, even multiple times during the year, with a personal choice of means of communication, submit their suggestions, opinions and proposals to the Agency. In the end, the Government says – we believe that there can be no abuse by either the Agency or the service users. Let's take it in a row. The government suggests that users can deliver their opinions, objections, suggestions, complaints once, and they can deliver countless times. We're not for once, not for countless times. We're for as long as it takes. So whenever the customer of the Agency's services feels that there is a need to contact the Agency for some reason, to point to a failure in its work, to address the Agency, as planned. For us, the issue is still disputed, and this part that applies in the way that opinions, objections and suggestions are delivered. The government suggests that users have the right to contact the phone, to contact them orally, to contact them by e-mail or by written means. Nothing is disputed, that every user of any service, it is his and his legal and constitutional right, has the right to address whoever gives him this service, whether for reasons to commend him or for reasons to disprove him, or for reasons to give him some of his suggestions. So it's nothing to us that's controversial. However, what the Government proposes is disputed, is that it is equally valued and treated in the same way, if one delivers his opinion, comment or suggestion by written means, by electronic means or by phone. You know, in everything and in every communication, written communication, there's a lead. In principle, there may be some abuses. In this case, the user of the Agency's services, some economic operator has proof of what he sent, has proof when he sent it and has proof when the Agency received it. However, the question arises – who will control opinions, suggestions, advice, complaints, etc., which have been delivered by telephone or electronic means or verbally? The oral route, by telephone or by e-mail, in this as proposed, remarks can be made when meeting on the street, when meeting in the hallway, in front of the office, and they can also be in the pub, after one or after five glasses, when a person is divorced by language and given some knowledge, say, of some crime being committed under the auspices of the Agency for Economic Registers or under cover, as says Mr Krasic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now let's take one of the economic operators to call the Agency and point out some serious crime, perhaps just to the work of some agency official who's answering his phone. Will that officer at the Agency record that conversation? He can record it, and he doesn't have to record it. No one beats him in the ears. There's no proof there was any conversation. There's a list of phone conversations, but there's no point in talking. The one that records, if he decides to record that conversation, that remark, he can write whatever he wants. He can write what he said, and he can write something quite tenth, for evil purposes, or because a man forgets simply and cannot remember what he's told. I'd like you to explain to me, maybe I'm not enough to understand this, how will this person who filed a complaint on the phone prove what was the essence of that remark, what was he complaining about, what was his opinion, etc? If he called on the phone, the only proof is the listing, but he can say – I pointed out that the Agency for Business Registers is forcing it and that company to do this and that criminal store, etc. This officer who answered, who recorded that conversation, says - no, it's not true, we talked about last night's "Partisan" and "Stars" game, about whether "Partisan" will win "Armani" tonight or whether we talked about a handsome official from the next office. To avoid this, to avoid any abuse, we suggested that this legal solution be very clear. It means that opinions, objections and suggestions, which are being treated seriously, are delivered to the Agency as many times as the user considers it necessary and that it seems exclusively written. As far as this argument is concerned, the Government said at the end – we believe that there can be no abuse by the Agency or by the users of services in this regard. You said you had about 709 thousand applications last year. You now claim that among 709 thousand users there are no ones who will resort for who knows what reasons, criminal or other reasons, abuses. The minister just said - we accept all amendments that are good and do not watch whether they were proposed by the opposition or proposed by the ruling majority. The refusal of this amendment is denied by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64943	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64944	I'm sorry the minister isn't here for one reason, which, unfortunately, you can't possibly accept this amendment. This is very rational what we're proposing. What was the idea of these changes and additions anyway? This is something that solves the Agency's relationship with users. We can say -- here's a good will to make some communication with users, but as it's written in the law, it's unthinkable. The idea is completely unimaginative. It's made that essentially means nothing. And this wasn't the only thing that bothered you about what you suggested. Now I'm going to start with what's going on here. First, it is said that the Agency has an obligation to enable users to give their opinion on its work and quality of services, propose a way of improving them, which is a special report, which becomes an integral part of the Agency's annual work report. So these remarks that you're talking about and you want to sort of respect them and praise them, this is a book of impressions actually. They must become an integral part of the report that some body will discuss and consider. How should the competent national authorities consider the remarks made orally? How can they consider the observations made on the phone? You know what's controversial here? You're the registrator, if I understand correctly, or the director. Now look what it's all about. There's a dispute here in the last member who's going to respect these objections and who's going to deal with them? A member of the board of directors? What is our guarantee that a board member is a man who understands your problems and your job? Especially in a country where boards were formed as they were formed in Serbia, under the leadership of the ten-year-old government. When people on boards are appointed to receive salaries, they receive fees, not because they understand something. When people are appointed only because they are party listeners. We can go from that assumption. So there's no guarantee that a man who will deal with these remarks and praises will understand what's going on. You have a problem with that. We were meant to propose in this amendment that an expert from the Agency receive, process and forward this to those who should work. This is ridiculous. This might be a good idea to come up with and question. That's why the SRS suggested something that makes sense, that this... Be careful how Mr. Ciric boasts just now, of 700 and some thousand, it is only 110 remarks. Since that's 0.01%, as he said, those 0.01%, I don't think they're going to have a problem with taking it in writing or electronically taking it out and giving it to the Agency for Business Registers. Their conscience will be clear that they have told you, they will be able to call you publicly tomorrow because they gave you something and delivered it, and you will have a system that will be efficient and will function and you will be able to read what is wrong with the Agency’s work, and on the other hand you will be able to reward someone who, in the opinion of the Agency’s user, is good and who is eventually commended by written or electronic means. The Serbian Radical Party therefore believes that it would behave diametrically differently from them. You know what, Your Honor, your work depends on what kind of legal basis these German 11 gentlemen will give you. It is therefore very important to give you a good and quality law, not to come here to relax a little, talk to the MPs, promote some of their political attitudes and walk out of the O.R. like this. I was just talking about who's supposed to be in the expert commissions. You know what Mr. Ziric tells me? Mrs. President didn't give me the right to a replica then, she gave me another word, not to make this argument and debate now, that we don't drag the debate out of the way. How can a legal person, domestic or foreign, be a member of a commission? He tells me -- you know, we have legal faces on the side, we don't know we're doing all the jobs, but that side of the law needs us. In the light of the law, it's very clear that this is about individuals, about individuals. And even if it were legal persons, so let the state make them register in Serbia, let them pay taxes there. It's a responsible attitude towards the state. It's easy for Mr. Kiric, now he's gone. What does he care? He won't sit there. We're successful, the Agency does everything right. A hundred times he received a call and an e-mail – what happens to the company "RS Partners" in Surdulica? Let him go down, ask these people how effective his agency is, how many times his sector is, and how many times does he delay the termination of the contract, how many times he repeats, how many times they send there the commission and what is determined and how they order the government to cancel out. To see what a circus. Two hundred people and two hundred families without a job, no one to turn to. Such, sir, and your potentially effective work will dissipate. You need to build on them because they are incompetent and uninterested in the efficiency of this country. There's no argument that can say that the amendment to the SRS is bad. We've given you a clear platform to be effective in this sense, and you won't accept it. Then you'll have a bad relationship with the public. You will because there was no hearing and no mind to accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64945	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 8a after Article 8. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 8a be added after article 8. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64946	Article 8a has shown to a large extent the nature of this law more by reason which the Government has given in giving an opinion on the refusal of this amendment than could be seen from the very content of the proposal or amendments that we have made. We have proposed that Article 8a be responsible for this agency, as is necessary for any other agency, be the minister or ministry responsible for the state administration. We believe that it is necessary for the ministry, by law, to oversee such an agency, because the government retains responsibility for carrying out trusted tasks in front of citizens. When I think there's nothing more controversial about it, I read an explanation for the rejection of the amendments, which says that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, as someone who is in charge of the Agency for Economic Registers and Economy in general, is the one who's in charge. But that's not the end, he says he's in charge of business registers, but that's why the other registers will be subject to that rule to be the competent minister who's in charge of the register in the area. It's only now that it's shown that there are 10 Pashas over the Agency for Business Registers. So, the minister by each register, for now 15, may be in one ministry. It's very interesting what was the criteria for unification, what is the essence of what this is based on in one Business Registers Agency, but that's why there are 15 bosses who will be in charge, and that's exactly what I told you to avoid, so that a citizen wouldn't be a ping pong ball, and the government isn't a table tennis table, which each other is a citizen walking from one to the other counter. You gave me an explanation in which, not that these are two rackets and one ball, but maybe 15 rackets and 16, that's some new possibility for some new registries, and when I say a racket, I mean a missile for hitting a ball, not something else. However, given the high rankings on some corruption and other elements, the racket can also be in a portable sense, even if it is the smallest thing. You know, a monopoly on information is the scariest thing. As it is a monopoly on information where to invest money, when and how to save, or sell, to convert from one form to another, and information related to the register of any kind, can mean to someone the right value, and that you do not know who is in charge, or that the party does not know, ignorantness does not defend it, it can also lose its right to lose just because the minister responsible for that register means everything and does not mean anything. I think this is an extremely bad solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64947	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Registration Procedure in the Agency for Economic Registers. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, Dusan Marić, Sreto Perić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Buha, Dragan Stevanović, Mirko Munjic, Zlata Đerić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sala Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Pokurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Draga Šović and Draga Draga Draga Draga Drag. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64948	I'm not going to repeat why we've suggested that it be not an agency but a registry administration, because we've talked pretty much about it, but since I haven't had the opportunity to see my opinion so far, I have to admit that I'm surprised by the number of amendments adopted that concern the registration procedure for business registers, pleasantly surprised that you've adopted some amendments that aren't just technical in nature, and there are those, and that as long as you last, I would like to talk about this, so at this point I won't even take two minutes to recapture the amendments you've refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64949	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64950	We asked in Article 2 of the proposal to change the name, i.e. the definition of the registrar and we said that the registrar is a function authorised to keep the register, which is kept in accordance with this law. This was explained by the government's appointment of this official. We believe that, within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, this function must be considered public. It is a respectable, significant, responsible, but like all other officials, it must also be subject to honorary respect, effective respect, but also responsibilities within the meaning of this law that treats conflict of interest. We asked to delete point 6 where you defined the term "applicant". It's a common sense. The applicant, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, is any legal or natural person who submits a request to the national authority. In spite of that, you have misdefined it here because you have mixed the terms of the applicant of the application and the natural person authorized to file an application on behalf of the legal person. One is the physical action itself as a applicant, and the other is that someone is authorized to do something and use it or abuse it, unless he has the authority to file a complaint. I don't know if you missed this. You should bear in mind that it is something that is, as a rule, a state body and that legal entities that report the establishment, change of data and so on, really clearly enough and that the introduction of this concept is "authorised", simply unnecessary and legally impossible. Who could come with the seal and all those accompanying data and elements without actually being authorized? Just someone to steal something overnight. Secondly, until it is established that someone was not authorised to file an application, he has the status of the applicant in the very fact that he submitted the application, because you yourself said in the principle debate, you do not control any kind of procedure, or investigative actions, whether someone is supplying the true information, or whether it is authorized. I believe that here, in a legal sense, the terms of the applicant's application are mixed, as the applicant, and who is authorized to apply for some change in the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64951	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The committees have not spoken out, so the amendment to the search and decision on it will be in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The committees have not spoken out, so the amendment is under review, and the Assembly will declare in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64952	The shortest, by respecting your time, I mean that the accepted amendment where one word is "equal" we've asked for its erasure, but it's not technically, it's really a word in the essential thing. I would like to vote in the day of the vote, which is why I want to explain this amendment to pass, because the rules prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act do not have the termology "coherently", but either you apply them as prescribed by the law or you do not apply them. So I hope that the MPs will have what the president has warned them with a short bell to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64953	We hope that we will all be present, to plead on this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone have a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS MPs have submitted this amendment to Article 6, which refers to the registration procedure in the event of the proceedings being initiated by the application. We had the opportunity to read, in an explanation given by the proposer, the reasons for the law being passed, that this law removed the ambiguities that occurred during the five-year application of the law. It's meant to be the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. Discarded legal gaps and clarified individual provisions which resulted in various interpretations. In order to define certain things precisely at the beginning of the application, this amendment has been submitted. The amendment removes the possibility that the application forms for certain registers should not be prescribed. Although registration involves recording, changing and deleting data, we believe that for each of the possible cases a single form should be prescribed and that would be easy to fill in. Also, we suggested that the answer be, i.e. the registrar’s decision shall be communicated in a unique manner to the applicants. What's important to point out here is another detail that the legislator of this law stated in an explanation. In 2005, the Republic of Serbia established an Agency for Economic Registers with the intention of implementing a reform in the area of registration of business entities, with the aim of facilitating the creation and closure of businesses, reducing administrative barriers, preparing an environment for larger foreign investments and creating conditions for the creation of a larger number of jobs. For the SRS, the purpose of the Agency is the same as for all other agencies. We don't question the expertise of people who work there. But we believe that such an important job should not have been entrusted to the agency to do so. We remember well, to return to what is the purpose of the Agency for Business Registers, for us the same as all other agencies, we all remember well that the Government had to publish on the insistence of the SRS parliamentary group the salaries of the directors in public agencies and according to these data provided by the Government, the salary of the Director of the Agency for Business Registers was 280 thousand dinars, in February 2009. This is two and a half times higher than the minister's salary, and compared to the pay of the MP, three and a half times. And on the other hand, the question now is whether the goal mentioned when it comes to creating an environment to improve business and create new jobs has been achieved. Official data show historical not employment in Serbia. What we had a chance to see is that 735 thousand people are unemployed, and unofficially that number is over a million because many are working on black, for money they can't feed families, many aren't registered on unemployment records because they've lost all hope. A lot of them are off the record for being late. All this is done to create an unreal picture of the number of unemployed, of course trying to show unemployment in a small number. I guess the responsible think they're going to represent themselves as less unsuccessful. A large number of highly educated people are unemployed, a magistrate, a doctor of science. At the beginning of this month, the regional science secretary provided data that only 50 to 60 non-permanent science doctors were offered their first chance. But how come it's just the year when the election is? How about only those who have residence in the territory of the Vojvodina? What about the people who live in the rest of Serbia? Where are the same rights for everyone? I'm going to reach out now, and I'm going to link this to the answer Mr. Minister gave to the SRS parliamentary group after the amendment, it seems to me Mr. Stevanovic or Mr. Maric, that when there are no domestic experts then I can engage the foreign ones. Here, this example, if there are places in Vojvodina, there is a need for a certain profile, means for some science doctor who doesn't have a residence in Vojvodina, why wouldn't she be hired by someone from Serbia's territory. Or the needs will be defined according to the professional preparation of these doctrines that have a residence in the territory of Vojvodina. Many times when a law was passed there were stories that it was in the interest of the citizens, that it would contribute to the creation of new jobs. As far as success was concerned, reality has shown. Turns out it's just phrases that only sound very, very nice. What is evident is that the government has been very concerned with the establishment of a number of agencies in recent years. The various laws provide them with jobs that they will carry out, and we could freely say of this law that one of them is. The promoter stated that at the time of the adoption of the Commercial Registers Act, three registers were kept, and that at this time 15. We see that in 2013 there will be 16 registers when the chamber register is also in the jurisdiction of the Agency for Economic Registers. That way the agency is sure they'll have something to do. The explanation that we received from the promoter why this amendment of the SRS Parliament Club was rejected is the following – the amendment is rejected for the reason that the proposed solution led to a non-road formalisation of the registration procedure and in cases where it is not necessary as before the normisation of the rules relating to the registration procedure. The essence of this amendment is that the registration process is simpler. We don't see a problem in defining patterns, although it seems to me that the gentleman who's at the office of the registrar at the agency has said for a little while that there are already all forms. Of course, he can't participate in the discussion with us, so I'm not sure what he said, but I don't see a problem defining patterns in which the necessary data will simply be entered. That the accountants don't have to bend because they're mostly accountants who, whose services are used by businessmen for these jobs. It is in the interest of those who register data to make it as simple as possible, not to burden those who need to run jobs and thus create preconditions for new jobs. It would be terrible if this practice were to continue, if large capital owners were given further by the state incentivise. This would then lead to the case that the Business Registers Agency will have quite a lot to do, business registers for entrepreneurs and business registers, but the job would be to delete them from the register. We'll all agree that it's in no one's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64955	Seven minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64956	I think it was better to accept this amendment because Mr. Munjic precisely defines the note. The note is the entry, however, we believe we have the wrong name of the Registration Procedure Act at the Business Registers Agency. It's a little imprecise. This should be – the law on registration procedures in business registers, and independent of which authority. The name of the authority cannot be in the name of the law which regulates the registration procedure. You were wrong with this definition of "registration" and with the definition of "remarks" in Article 2 of point 3 relating to registration and point 13. That's all the enrollment, the entry of some information whose registration is legally prescribed, and there's no big complications. You probably remember, a long time ago, before 2004, the competent authority for the recording and registration of business entities, at the time of the company, was an economic court and there was a special law on registration. Under the law, the procedure was regulated on the principles of out-of-pardon proceedings mainly, and now that democracy has come and Europe has come, these jobs have become a administrative matter and this is now a administrative matter, and you in several members say that all those things that are not regulated by this law will be subject to the General Administrative Procedure Act. So, you've moved one area, so something that's been out-of-pard procedure you moved it to the administrative thing and moved it to administrative law matter, and if that's the case, then you need to know that the notation basically means one entry where something is recorded that's relevant to legal traffic, and what's recorded can be some fact, some data, some document, but something that's conditional. So there is a condition in terms of events, or there is a condition in terms of time and time. However, in this EU regulation, the basic principles that exist in the Republic of Serbia have been lost long ago and so I simply cannot understand that you have kept the concept that the notation, of course it is the entry, based on application or under official duty, is fine, if the registrar comes to the knowledge of facts and documents. What does knowledge mean? Fama? Well, you can't go on a family basis. The registrar has come to his attention and believes that what he heard should be given the character of the record. No, that's why Mr. Lightning corrected you. So, to the relevant facts and documents and then below can this – which are important for legal traffic. So he improved your text. If this text remained, then it could literally be said what Maric just said, on the basis of a telephone conversation, the registrar came to know, now let's write a note. That's impossible. I must say something commendable. It's a good thing you don't allow personal contact with officials in that agency, but via the counter, it has to be announced. Probably all conversations are recorded and all conversations should be recorded. For God's sake, this is Serbia, you know. This communication, regardless of our criticism, you can still see for yourself that we are focusing our criticism on what needs to be criticised, we are not criticizing everything. If you are able, ask Mr. Kiric to accept this amendment. This amendment only helps to clearly determine what the subject matter may be. So, I need relevant facts and documentation, not phone knowledge -- I got word from a pigeon writer, so based on what the pigeon writer told me, I came to know about the facts and some documents. This isn't even about asking for a document, it's about finding out about a document. I heard there's some kind of document, where is it? Jackna, who knows where he is. Excuse me, please, the record in your records and in your registers may have a considerable impact on legal traffic when it comes to this economic operator, we are now talking about an economic operator, because someone is going to come to the Internet, type in the APR, see a note there, a note as a result of the knowledge – someone let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64957	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64958	We have submitted an amendment where the entry of the notation is made on the basis of an application or by official duty if the registrar determines the existence of facts to be entered in the registrar. In some of the views, or members that were adopted as amendments, I saw that something similar was accepted, and here it was not. So, this way of coming to the knowledge, in this case I think an amendment should have been adopted because it's completely undefined to say – there's been some knowledge. It is known that it can only be based on the entry solution, the legal procedure in which facts are established, and those facts that are important for legal traffic, as you say, are not just some, but on which are important for enrolment and the law strictly prescribes them. I will use this intervention and the story of the amendment to Article 8 on a remark that has been made so gently by my colleague Komic and says – that we are all there when the day of the vote, I must say next – it would be my turn to be there when everyone votes, but 126 MPs can vote for the opposition's proposal with the opposition's intervention to be better, but it is more the fault of the authorities that such a deep trench has been dug between the position and the opposition that even voting for something that is considered to be good for all is the kind of betrayal of oppositionism. To what extent, I felt it yesterday and alone when I said in a conversation that I had sincere human respect for one of the last interviews of the late Zoran Djindjic, where he made a very brave and concrete statement of the truth about Kosovo and a remark of friends who do not really support him in what is the problem of Kosovo, a title in the newspaper "I Love Djindjic". As a mother of three adult children, a woman born in Kosovo, raised there very conservatively, it is simply inappropriate for someone in the public to say "I love" because I can only worship my children. It's a personal matter and it's not in the papers. Respect honestly to the man on this matter and it was found to be pampered, counting on the opposition to do harm. No, someone's gonna wrap potatoes in that paper, potato shells and throw away, but the newspaper as a society alliance has lost in my eyes a lot by making a mockery and mockery. I will not change my mind, I will have respect for anyone who does a brave and smart thing, but I must admit that today is not easy to be an opposition in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64959	One minute and 15 minutes were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilović and Srdjan Spasojevic. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64960	New Serbia has submitted one amendment. I'm glad the minister's back, because he's the only one who can accept the post of amendment. This is a really constructive amendment. I'd like Mr. Secretary and his associates to pay attention to something that will certainly fix the situation. A little while ago, we were talking about how we from the opposition wanted to fix some laws as much as possible. Namely, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. We suggest that the change be made and that it reads: "The application is submitted to the Agency, directly or recommended to the postal shipment. Where the application is submitted to the recommended postal consignment, the application shall be deemed to have been submitted on the day of the delivery of the consignment in accordance with the law governing postal services. "Explanation for this amendment. We believe that from the point of view of general legal certainty, it is better to provide for the recommended postal shipment as an exclusive form of postal communication with the Agency, therefore, not only when it comes to sending financial reports but any other data and submissions at all. This solution is in the best interest of the operators themselves, since automatically, on the day of sending the recommended shipment, they know whether they are late or not. If the solution proposed by the integrated text were to remain in force, there would be an important element of uncertainty, as the sender of the ordinary postal consignment could not, with certainty, be able to read the information on the date and time of submission of the application. I'd like to ask the minister to pay attention again. It's actually more specific. The government does not accept this amendment and here is the argument: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the provision of Article 9(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is rejected. The bill does not deny the applicant the possibility to submit the registration application and recommended to the postal consignment." So it doesn't deny the possibility. Then why doesn't it stand as an obligation in the legal text? "The motion to amend the position of the 2nd member cannot be accepted because in this way a short law prescribed five days to decide on the application registrar would be further shortened, and given the general known fact that more than three days travel from certain places of the Republic of Serbia's postal shipments." When do the deadlines start? It means at the time of the application or by mailing or by receiving the mail to which the mail has been submitted. That's why I don't see any reason for this argument to stand out like this. I think it is more precise that New Serbia has submitted the amendment and it is certain that it will remove and help these legal entities to have one more precise one in legal traffic and I would ask you, not to criticise those who have not paid attention, for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64961	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment applies to Article 10. Otherwise, Article 10 regulates the time limit for filing an application. We put one word in here and it would all look like this. For the purposes of this Article, the applicant shall report to the Agency within 15 days of the date of the occurrence of the data or documents subject to registration, etc. What does it say in attitude two? For applications lodged after the expiry of this period, compensation shall be paid in accordance with the regulation governing fees, etc. So I'm asking you now, Minister, is there a fee to be paid for filing the registration within the time limit? Of course it's paid. The same fee cannot be paid when registration and registration are submitted within and past the deadline. As we ask for responsibility from the government, as we ask for responsibility from individuals at the Agency for Economic Registers, let's say, so we ask for responsibility from those who file a complaint. So if the gentleman who submits the application does so within the time limit prescribed by the law, he'll pay 500 dinars, but if he doesn't do so within 15 days, as far as the law says, he has to pay 700 dinars. That, Mr. Minister, promotes the responsibility that the Government shows on the fact that you are not present when we talk about very important things and when we make very important arguments, which may make you able to improve the text of this law. You have explained, Mr. Minister, that the amendment refuses to add this word does not constitute an improvement in the text of the law, but it is not, because this fee has already been fixed as a fee to be paid for the registration of the data after the expiry of the prescribed time limit. Where does that say? You wrote that you would be paid compensation when the deadline was enslaved. Then why did you not indicate that compensation would be paid even when the application was filed within the time limit? With this amendment, we have only created space in the law that in a sublegal act, or act that will bring the board of directors, or I don't know who in the agency, can and has a basis in the law to be different compensations for those who are responsible and compensation for those who are not responsible. That's the reciprocity. It is the relationship of the SRS, but also the attitude of the state towards the users of its services when it was run by the SRS. There are rights and there are obligations. If you're expecting rights from someone, you have to have those obligations to them. There's a difference between you and us and we don't have a dilemma that we'd be completely different from you acting in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64963	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64964	Article 10. We proposed that the bill be deleted. The first entry for the establishment of legal persons and the change of data, i.e. all other facts on which registers are conducted, is primarily of interest to the applicant, so it is he who should take care of his own interests, that is, he should worry about the protection of his or her own rights, so that the regulation of the deadline, in particular at the time of the establishment of other intrusive, cross-border transactions, is too high. The specific reason for deleting Article 10 is the reason contained in what you prescribed for enrollment at the expiry of the deadline. I'd like you to explain to me whether the deadline description creates additional costs. Now he's doing something different. What, you've closed a container, and now we need to bring in someone who's going to open it and bring in empty data, and that takes time, effort, and so on? Since there are no additional costs and efforts to bring it in uninitiatedly, I can only take this as a sentence which is imposed without a court, keep in mind, where the incense, the judge, and the penalty, is charged in his pocket. When you prescribe an increased fee, tell me where you found a foothold in the Law on Public Agencys, where it is prescribed that you can measure the cost, i.e. the fee only in accordance with the actual costs, and I cannot see from the reasons of the law how it increases the registration costs if the application is submitted after more than 15 days of the day of the change. What I said wasn't my intention to be funny, but I'm really looking for an explanation why one of these amendments wasn't introduced, illegal, unfounded. Maybe I don't understand. Come on, explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64965	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64966	Mr. Novakovic, you send someone to go to the Business Registers Agency and file a report and he comes back, you tell him – did you file a report? He says I am. So where's your proof that you filed? He says they didn't give me anything. How come they didn't give you anything? They say there is a Article 12. — the certificate of receipt of the application shall be issued at the request of the applicant for the direct submission of the application to the Agency, directly, personally. So if you're looking, you can get confirmation, if you're not looking, you won't get confirmation. But if the courier forgot to look, there's no confirmation. Then as director, Mr. Novakovic, you do not know if you have fulfilled your legal obligation, if you have filed a report in time, whether it is a concrete application. Now these geniuses of yours from G 17 plus, Ciric and the company say – it is not good for this amendment to the SRS. They are calling for Article 12, Article 12's position. The bill and they say – we will always give confirmation but, by the logic of things, there should be some interest. Imagine, they doubt the interest of the man who brought the application and handed it directly to the counter, if he has any interest. Why do we insist on this receipt certificate? Because in Section 3 you have very well prescribed what all should contain that certificate. Because when a man addresses the municipality through an office with a request and that some documentation, you know, that swing print itself, determines the time, the date, the number of contributions, and you have that you've given up. It's a little bit more serious here, but it's a little thicker documentation. When reporting directly with documentation is submitted, confirmation should be obtained, as the confirmation is evidence that one of the actions in the administrative procedure has been carried out. What kind of shop is that? This is the first, initial store, proof that a report has been filed. Since the EU's rule in Serbia, thank God, and now it's lost, and now Serbia has won Serbia. Mr. Kiriq, these things happen. The EU is not all-powerful, you see, by January 15th, it will somehow, from January 15th, it looks like there will be a big dance there with your friends in Brussels. Help these people get those people out of the crisis. You're experts. How did you get us in 11 years? All "black grass", go a little bit and do it in Brussels. Spread out a little bit. Not just here. What do you call it? mix it up a little bit. So you're not going to confirm that you're giving the man, you're forcing him to buy a computer, to connect to the Internet, to communicate with you by email. Why are you doing this? How hard is it to determine on one paper what all the subject of the registration has submitted? Is it important that there is this certificate in writing that has been submitted? It's important. You know why? Because the place can be prepared. A local in preparation and someone comes to control it. If he has confirmation that he has filed an application to sign up to the Agency for Economic Registers, then that inspection body is looking differently. Not like this. We have powerful computers, we don't want to work with papers, we don't want to give a man unless he insists, etc., etc. And you know for a fact that these businessmen of yours are half illiterate, they didn't even know how to fill in until three years ago. These are yours. Up until five years ago, they couldn't get bit by a dog and now they're driving jeeps. Now they have money, everybody loves them, they're successful, they're very beautiful because they have a lot of money, they can buy drugs. Mr. Kiric, those who don't have money can use tea but to make sure that the grass is put into tea, because not all grasses are medicinal. You've made people manage in a variety of ways. Since this agency is so successful, which costs them to type one piece of paper, confirming to a man to justify himself to the CEO of the company that he really submitted his application with the paperwork, that he had some serious documentation here. It's not a simple request to be filed by the municipal administration. Since you were not a moment earlier, I would recommend that you adopt the amendment of Mirko Munjic. He's fixing article 8 on the note, and it wouldn't be bad for you to accept this amendment of mine, even though I know you're very disgusted when something comes from my side.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64967	It would be an honor for me if Mr. Minister Nebojsa Ciric had ever been a member of the G 17 Plus political party. Unfortunately, it's not. But I give him my word, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64968	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Krassic, I don't see what the problem is here. I don't see what you're up for here. Are you saying we don't go online or should we go? Here we give the opportunity for someone to come and apply and say, "Give me confirmation." A business registries officer will give it to him. But, and if you don't give him that moment, I know it may be complicated sometimes, you can also access the Internet from a mobile phone, a computer, whatever it is you don't just get confirmation and see if it's done, but from the moment you submitted the request, follow what happens to your request. And I don't need anyone to insist, but he says, yes, I want you to print me a certificate or print me a request or I won't. It's the freedom of choice we all stand for. As complicated as that is, I don't know if you were when I said it, maybe you are and maybe you're not, I'll repeat. Last year, of the 150,000 financial reports submitted by our companies, 126,000 were in electronic form. That's enough to say that in the last five years, what you're saying, we've made some progress. I guess it's cheaper for the company to send electronics than to wear papers? That's what Mrs. Tabakovic and I discussed about an hour ago. I really don't see what the problem is here? Or is the point of making a problem where there's no problem? So everyone here has the right to choose. The point is to simplify procedures, not constantly complicate them. What's the point of getting the paper? Or is the point of finishing the job as soon as possible and with as little cost as possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64969	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64970	Mr. Kiriq, if you'd listened a little bit, you'd understand. It's not that hard, it's just a little bit of a headache. As for that computer and the Internet, make sure you don't get electrocuted when you're on the Internet. Mr. Ciric, we propose, by amendment, that the obligation be made by the Agency for Economic Registers that when it comes and directly submits the documentation to be registered with the Agency, the Agency issue a certificate of admission. So, it's not the point of whether or not anyone will, Mr. Kiric. I know you prefer that system -- it can, it can't, it can't, you see it now, you don't see it, like that Jay in front of the bus station, those three balls. No, I don't. The state when it does something, when the state authority acts, this is an amendment that we require the state authority to issue a certificate and not depend on the courier, whether he wants to ask or not. You Shilibaziser - you can do it like this, you can do it like that. You've made a lot of savings on the Internet. Who tells you you don't need it online? Who's stopping you from working online? Just be careful not to get electrocuted, you'll cost the state. After all, you're some state official. The point of the amendment is that the Agency has an obligation to issue a certificate of acceptance, not what you wrote, a man comes, so if he wants, they will give him, and if he doesn't say, turkey dots don't apply. He can trace it over the computer. And why follow it over the computer? He came to the state authority, showed up on the counter, submitted his application with documentation, and requested confirmation of receipt. So, whether he asked or not, the organ has to provide him with a confirmation. That's our amendment, Mr. Kiriq. Do you understand now? This is much simpler than privatisation. I know you're doing well in your privatisations, you have performance every day here, six pieces, six groups demonstrate and strike in front of your ministry. You know why? Because in Serbia, she later developed her mind. When you made the first privatisation in Serbia and the first resignation came, the whole place would never have been fired. It didn't hit me, it hit this one. After 10 years of government of pro-European parties, everyone is now hit. That's your contribution, Mr. Kiric. If you ask, you will receive, if you do not seek, we will not give you. No, I don't. We are asking for an amendment to establish a commitment to the state authority because the confirmation of admission is evidence that an administrative procedure has begun, a registration procedure based on the principles of the administrative procedure. Let go of those goofy stunts. I know you're media trained to turn what a man says. A man says good day to you, and you say good night. Let go of those jokes. Those stunts you can do elsewhere, you can't go to the radicals. You know, we're all into preslimping. We've got some for you, too. We're just waiting for power, so choose, Zabela, KP Dom. There's an empty space.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64971	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64972	Here, this is something similar to my predecessor's. So in Article 12, paragraph 1, after saying, "A certificate of receipt of the application shall be issued... "and it is sealed and said, "at the request of the applicant of the application, "they are deleted. For reasons of legal certainty, we believe that, in the event of a direct application, the Agency should be obliged to issue to the applicant a certificate of receipt of the application and that this obligation should not be bound to the application of the applicant. Such a solution would warn potential and procedural disputes, which can theoretically arise, in the event that the applicant does not possess physical evidence in the form of confirmation. Here, I'll do my best to clarify that a little bit, although my colleague Krasic must have done some things by now. Is it necessary for a company to register, other than some founding role, for a particular company to play a founding role, to say, and a computer? Here, I'll start with that assumption. When it comes to legal procedure that it's an obligation, then I respect everything you've said. As long as it's not an obligation, Mr. Minister, I'll stay... This may be some old-fashioned attitude in your understanding, but I think this is more celery. Let me give you another example of why this is good. Maybe somebody didn't think of this, maybe I don't have some big touch points with finances, but I'll give you a hypothetical possibility. A man went to submit this application and at some point, since the company is not yet working, or working, etc., there will be some cost-refunding. Some travel order may or may not be written. What if, for example, something should be justified by costs? For example, here's one example I'm giving. Maybe it's not okay, but it might happen later at, say, some re-registration or some additions, if something's not mandatory, and then some inspector shows up and says, "Yeah, you had a travel order here, so give me what you did in Belgrade. Let's just say, that's the possibility. I'm really not a financial expert, but it happens. You've got someone who's got some kind of cap, and they're looking for a possibility like that. Believe me, in some law practice, I've been in a lot of worse situations where people have paid fines and things like that. Why is this a problem to do? I appreciate you saying it's 120 and I don't know how many companies, but as long as there's such a possibility, some of these options, it's okay. After all, you can still pay with cash and you can pay with a card. I personally prefer to pay in cash, because, believe me, I'm exhausted by that paper, so I have to sign something, so it gives me etc. After all, a little more is wasting time. It may be my understanding, but, believe me, here's the example I gave you, which is why this is, after all, better for the party. No one here says you don't have a good will. I'm sure you have the will. Surely you are seeking someone more progressive, and we all need to strive, but as long as there is some possibility of meeting the problem at some point, it needs to be removed and this amendment is New Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64973	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64974	Mr. Savior, thank you for asking. The question is, what would you say, quite in place? But again, I don't see a problem here and I'll tell you why. We're going back to what you'd say, a zero state. When you come to submit a request or anything at the Agency for Economic Registers, you can, you have the right to ask for confirmation, and you don't have to. If a situation like yours comes up, and there may be different situations in real life, you have two options. One option is, again we come to the topic of this dangerous Internet, to go online, print that certificate that you need, and the other is that whenever you can go back and say it again, give me confirmation and they can tell you. So, because you don't want to, you don't have to ask for confirmation, it doesn't stop you from coming back tomorrow or in half an hour, or in what you say, in a life of three, six months, you come and say, "Give me confirmation and they give you." You have, I'd say, that comfort for you from your office or some clerk at some firm to take and go online, print and get that tax inspector, the lawyer, whoever, the same certificate. So we're just expanding the possibility, and we're not making a commitment, so I think what you're saying and what I'm saying is not the opposite of each other. We're just giving you the opportunity to get it right away, later, the Internet, personally on the counter, whatever it is you or anyone else's suit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64975	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64976	Here, I wanted to say exactly what Mr. Minister said, that anyone who submits electronically can really print himself and have it, but I'm inclined to accept the request of a colleague that they don't have to apply and that the official duty of the agency itself, when they submit physically alone, in this form they really need to get confirmation. They don't have to write a request, because this means you're getting electronic right now... (Nobojsa Ciric: He does not write a request. He writes a request. It shall be issued on request, here it says - the certificate of receipt of the application shall be issued at the request of the applicant for direct submission. I'm inclined to support the amendment of both colleagues, because if we're in the view that the user service is the one who hires or fires us in a company, if the customer is the emperor who determines jobs for us as producers, if the voter is the one we serve, I think we should really delete this word: "request" and that he would have to get confirmation that he submitted the documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64977	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64978	Just one thing, when you say a request, you don't need a special request, but when you're teaching, you're just counting, which you would say, on a registration application yes or no. So you want to be given confirmation or not. In that sense, a request that you claim whether or not you will. That's all. There is no special requirement, that you have to go extra to the counter, so you say - here is the request to issue me a certificate, but when you report, just click whether or not you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64979	Mr. Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64980	Mr Minister, in order to justify not accepting this amendment, it is said that the amendment is rejected for the reason that the acceptance of the proposal to issue a mandatory certificate of admission would be non-discriminatory and economical if the applicant does not have an interest in having such confirmation in writing. Where do you make the assumption? I gave you an example that could happen. There must be some kind of imperative in some law, some kind of shop that gives some kind of confirmation. Why should we even make assumptions if there's little chance of a problem? Well, it's not all right for someone to come back to Belgrade to get confirmation. You know? Is it a problem to say – you simply need to put the receipt of the shipment, as you go to any court and turn something over that you have given something. What's the problem? I don't really see why we're here leading the controversy over seemingly insignificant things, but thousands of things can happen during the process. Perhaps one of those inspectors, which I just said as an example earlier, will not be familiar with this fact that you may or may not have to. After all, some stress to a man who's at the beginning of a job or who's reregistering, well, that might be enough for him at some point. Here, colleague Krasic, colleague of Jorgovanka and now I highlight some hypothetical possibilities that can happen, do not have to happen, but can happen. Why don't you just accept that? I repeat again, when you introduce that the obligation is to open or reregister, the obligation, except for the founding role, I can accept this. As long as that's not the case, just prescribe something that's imperative, because it's still the state, some procedures, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64981	On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64982	Article 15. The bill provides deadlines for a decision to make in the application, which says in the first sentence: "The registrar decides to apply within 15 days of the date of receipt of the application", and extremely, in paragraph 2, he says, "The deadline for a decision to register financial reports 60 days from the date of receipt of the application". In the amendment that I have submitted, I have requested that a new position be added after Article 15, Article 2, which reads: "The Director of the Agency shall, by a special act, determine the conditions laid down in Article 2." The answer is this: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the Director of the Agency, in terms of regulations governing the legal position of the Agency, does not have the authority to prescribe conditions for deciding to register financial reports." I'm saying there is, in Article 10, we can find it. What is the essence of this amendment? The key is to establish, given that financial reports are financial and legal reports, of particular importance, with specific data, data containing official, business and other secrets, in order to bring all of this together. In order to create conditions for keeping the official secret information contained there, certain conditions must be created. You, in your explanation, say, "In terms of regulations governing the legal position of the Agency, there is no authority to prescribe conditions." What do you mean, it's gone? It's not a legal act, it's an act of the director to be determined. Terms of registration of financial reports – it is an internal act. Then, the conditions of keeping business, official and other secrets, processing of data that are found, etc. Since I am an authorised representative, Mr. Chairman, I will use this time as an authorised representative of the SRS, so in a few sentences I will make the basic remarks of the SRS. First, that's what we said in the principle debate, there's no need for two laws. It must be solved by one law. That's a basic remark. This law must have approximately this formulation, which is the law on procedures, conditions and the way of registration and registers. There is no need in the legal system to create in the same area of two laws, one is material, the other is procedural. It needs to be united into one law. Our general position on the agency is well known. We're against the agencies. This should not have been removed from the court, especially the area of economic registers. Since the agency has a name - business registers and runs one of the registers, which is a register of companies, companies, we have another 14. What's the SRS' position on all this stuff that's going on here? First, the Agency cannot bear the name – business registers, because in addition to these business registers we only have that first register of companies, and all other registers are: register of publishing rights, register of financial leases, foreign associations, measures, etc. The agency has to change the name. This was an opportunity for you to change your name and, if you've already chosen the agency, that agency will be for the registers. As for the other registers, we have other state authorities and institutions that run the registers. Here's a convenient opportunity to unite in one place. It is appropriate when we train a state authority to do so, and thank God, now in the electronic system of transferring information and documents we can easily transfer it to one state authority and this state body has all the registers. Why didn't you do it, that's the question. Here's a good chance, it's a suggestion for the SRS to unite it into a single state body. Whether to call the agency, whether to call the court, the administration, the office, etc., is irrelevant. It is important to have in one place and to know exactly how and how to get to the data, the way, the procedure and the conditions of keeping the register. What is important from practice to say is that we often have in practice the registration of certain institutions, agencies, directorates, various associations, etc., which bear the personal name of state, province, local self-government, without approval. You have a clear legal condition – no name entered in the register cannot be registered in the personal name of the state, individual personality, local self-government, etc. without the approval of the competent authority. You have to use it, and you don't use it. As far as the fee is concerned, this is the wrong way to determine the fees, how you get compensation for certain services you do. The Serbian Radical Party generally has an objection. First, owning revenues can't be the income of any state body. It's the state's income, the budget's arrival. On the basis of the budget allocation, each authority shall receive that revenue. You don't respect it through this law, but it was done 10 or 12 years ago, and then we broke it apart. That's bad. Furthermore, as far as compensation is concerned, you say here that the fees are determined on the basis of the board's decision, with the government's consent. Where's the Ministry? Who's in control here? Can Mirko Cvetkovic control, has enough insight into what you do, how much you do, etc.? That's where the ministry's off. The Ministry is overseeing, controlling and aware of all your affairs. Has there been an increase, is there any reason to increase, are we going to reduce it, etc., who knows? The Ministry. You, through this kind of innovation of the legislation, expelled the ministry, the highest state body to monitor and control the work of not only this agency, is a similar situation with other agencies and other state bodies. He can't do it without this institution, because that's why there are numerous abuses. When you have a regulation like this, the board of directors who is intermittent, people come, the director and the professional services say – we have problems here, etc., let's lift this up, let's rip it up, etc. What do we have in practice? We have this administrative service, which must be symbolic, it's huge. That's the practice. I speak in general. Probably you now in the total fees that you collect from your users have certain relationships, somewhere more, somewhere lower, etc. If you were working personally, each of you would make certain adjustments that would not match what you currently have as an official valuer of your services. What's the social danger here? The social danger is that you, through uncontrollable pricelifting, firstly, damage your users, on the other hand, are causing a reaction to other agencies that make up the company and say – if there is nothing they do there, what wouldn't we do, etc.? Then it's a flood of rising prices. What is our administrative fee, or compensation for the service done? You called here a fee, and she's actually an administrative tax, because you're an administrative authority. What's that? That's the price of your work. The price of your work, since you are a budgetary user, must be adequate for effective work, and since you use budget funds and that you are an indirect budget user, that price must be minimal. What are the prices of your services? Big ones. Since I'm in some kind of registration procedure for some associations, I know what the fees are. For associations that, I'm just going to be one segment of everything from your job. Associations which, on the other hand, apply shall be gathered, etc. The desire to do a human job, to get together and then to prepare this, to prepare this, etc. And then we get this tax, a fee for your service done, and then it's fatter, etc. Those are basic remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64983	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64984	We have why. Of course we can, Mr. Milivoevich, wrap as much as we want, there's no hearing on the other side. But what the minister shows throughout the debate is that he has a spirit in these difficult times. One sherbet. I don't know, Mr. Minister, you weren't there at the beginning of the debate when I spoke on my first amendment. There's a non-chalant that you're promoting in the conversation, especially with the MPs of the SRS, putting a burden on them that we don't understand modern communications, or modern technology. I wish you'd promoted your freedom and courage in a public hearing a few days ago here, to hear 150 workers from various ruined criminal privatisations, who, unfortunately, have also come to me as MPs of the opposition who have not contributed to their position as they are, derailed and unfortunately from me who can't help them, expect me to help them. While you are so relaxed that in the ministry, which you are sitting in the assembly, 200 people in Surdulica are dragging me by the sleeve as a national MP, because the state is not going to use its mechanisms to help them and to look at them in any way, but rather indolent to them, and it is the workers of the "RS Partners" from Surdulica. And this time I appeal to you, to your organs that in a potentially indirect or direct way you use to influence them, to stop that problem and that agony and solve it. As regards this amendment, it concerns Article 17 of the Law, i.e. the rejection of the application. What did I suggest here? To change the attitude of the third. In fact, I'm not going to read attitude one, this second and third attitudes are important here. The second says – if the conditions for registration referred to in Article 14(2), (5) and (10) of this Act are not met, the registrar shall adopt a solution rejecting the application and determining which conditions for registration are not met. What you write further - if the applicant submits a registration application within 30 days of the day of publication, in the spirit of IT technology, as it is called, the solutions of Article 2 of this Article shall be submitted for registration of the information on whose registration is decided, by that solution. Watch this, and pay half of the amount of the prescribed registration fee which is the subject of the application, retains the right of the decision-making priority based on the application rejected in accordance with Article 2(2). How did we imagine this third attitude, Mr. Minister? We deeply believe that the people sitting next to you would be easier and easier to work and would really cut costs. What did we say? If the applicant submits a registration application for registration within 15 days of the date of receipt of the decision referred to in the second Article's position, the registration of which has been decided by that decision shall retain the right of the decision priority based on the submission of the application rejected in accordance with Article 2(2). In the explanation that you rejected my amendment, you wrote that your model law is a reduction in costs which is not true. Because you are asking for those whose solution, i.e. the initial application at the beginning of the start, to pay another half of the fee. We suggest that it be lifted this way. As we have suggested in that amendment that compensation for those who do not respect the deadline be higher, we now propose that this half of the fee be abolished and that you do not charge it, but we ask you that, after receiving a solution, the applicant has 15 days of time to correct the error found in that solution. You're even here referring to modern technologies, so electronic communication, so you're about to publish. Then why didn't you tell the Minister that all applications were submitted by electronic means? We don't need any more mail, no more recommended, no more direct, no more need. Mr. Minister, in some places this country's Internet hasn't arrived yet. Unfortunately, it's not the SRS' fault, our amendments respect reality, Minister. Fifteen days from the day of receiving the solutions written by the people sitting next to you, it is quite enough for those who are serious and responsible to bear all that is missing, correct the error and register. You have no right to charge them. You charge them a fee to file charges, and then half because there's something else missing. Excuse me, please, you can't justify yourself here for you to conduct a cheaper procedure, etc. No, we suggested that the procedure be cheaper and more efficient. Whether you publish it in electronic form or not, it's your business, it's a matter of freedom, Minister. It's not a matter of freedom whether you want to or not to confirm that you've received a solution, it's a matter of freedom whether you're going to do it electronically or in writing. But when you work in writing, then we ask that you are obliged to give confirmation that you received something. There is a choice and there is freedom, not whether or not you will receive what the Agency needs to betray you. So, Mr. Minister, I think we've made an amendment that will improve the process, which won't put you at risk and will make it easier for people sitting next to you to work effectively. It bothers this story to those who have been destroying this country with you for three years. They don't care about the procedure and this, they're dragged into the chairs of the board of directors, which in the directorial places, they don't care that they don't touch them. You know, he's gonna raise his hand or not in the voting day for all this, they don't care. Try to listen to people who objectively understand problems because they have or do not have problems like this. I'm a private man, a humble private, and I know that when I had an obligation, at least lately with the Agency, things were correct and they were working. But we have experienced that this will improve the procedure relating to this Article 17 and the rejection of the application and we think it would be rational for you to accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64985	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64986	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we've reached Article 24, which means someone had an interest in applying to the Agency for the Business Register, filed it, decided and completed the job. It says – the delivery of a written withdrawal of the registrar's decision shall be made at the request of the applicant and so on. We suggested that this "at the request of the applicant and that" be deleted. My argument could be the same as Mr Krasic's argument. I will try to further convince you to accept both this and the amendment to Article 12 submitted by Mr Krasic. You said - I don't see what the problem is here, giving reasons to Article 12, or amendment to Article 12. That's what it is, Mr. Ciric, that you don't see the problem, and that's what the citizens of Serbia see and have. They have a problem because there's no environment that you've talked about in the process that they will be, that they will be able to register their business entities or companies under a simplified procedure and move into that real sector, to create new values. We have this financial sector and a little bit in the field of tourism, and the real sector barely survives, and you could say, I don't want to be ominous, to count down not its many days. I can be pleased with what the Agency has done and I tell this officer - I will also want a written release or a written decision, and he says, "I'm sorry, my minister is from the Pyrot, and he wants to save, I can't give you or we don't have any paper today or any other reason." Mr. Minister, you need to know that Serbia's citizens need to have as many alternatives as possible - they can, will or won't use anything. When it comes to state authorities, they don't have the opportunity to say we want to do something or we don't want to do it, but simply to act like it, and to make and issue those solutions in accordance with their obligations. If Article 9 of this proposal of the law states that the documentation is submitted immediately, when resolved and decided on that request, whose documentation has been submitted directly, it is understood that a written correction should be given directly. It's good, Mr. Kiric, that you're not a member of the G17 Plus party, you have a chance to become 500,000 members of the SRS or 1.001 in the course of this week, and then you do it. Well, you're welcome, and then you'd have a lot more obligations and you had to do a lot more seriously, that Serbian citizens would benefit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64987	Thank you. This time is scheduled for the Serbian Radical Party's debate to be used. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64988	In principle, I wouldn't want to repeat myself to any remarks I've pointed out. Of course, we already have a decision here. New Serbia is trying to fix this law with another amendment, or make it clearer. In Article 24, point 1 is replaced by the following: "Postal consignment" is added: "recommended". In Article 24 paragraph 1, point 2 is replaced by the following: "Postal consignment" is added: "recommended". In Article 24 paragraph 1 point 5, the word "postal consignment" is added to the word "recommended". So we insist on the recommended shipments. It is explained that Article 24(3) concludes that the delivery of a written withdrawal of the registrar’s decision is considered to have been made on the date of dispatch to the address, etc., as a logical conclusion, the fact that the recommended postal consignment is in question. Since the law should be precise, there is no reason why such a way of sending is explicitly not stated. In that sense, and the solution proposed by the amendment, we have offered. I've tried now to find an explanation, among other things, in support of electronic communications. Not to be misunderstood, I certainly stand for something like that, it's absolutely fine, but I read in one amendment that there are parts of Serbia in which mail is received for five, six days. Now I'm asking you, where the post office travels for five, six days, first, I haven't met with the recommended shipment, she can not be there, so you go to receive a shipment just five, six days later, that I haven't met right away to say, so much I want to say positive about postal traffic, and secondly, is it in such an environment, if it's so remote, as you say, somewhere, I don't say where it is, if someone wants to open the company, does it mean that it's an undeveloped environment and that someone's trying to do something, and that there's no possibility of electronic communication? You know, we have to devote a little bit to life. Not everyone's on the kelp, not everyone's in the city center, not everyone's in some exclusive centers. A little while ago, you said there were almost one third of people who didn't communicate by e-mail. In an explanation of why you refuse the amendments, you say why the registrar's decision produces facts from the day of its publication. You know, if someone doesn't have the opportunity to read that day's announcement, why don't you accept this amendment to inform the party's recommended shipment anyway? I think it's unnecessary to comment further, my colleagues and others have talked about it. I think there's one point that if you don't communicate like this, you'll be practically denied something. I repeat, once the minister has left, when it is prescribed that a company register, except for the founding role, needs someone to have a computer, enter such a rule, and then there is no problem. You don't do it because you know you can't do it, and then you force everyone to act as if it were an obligation. I tried to explain this situation to Serbian citizens in the simplest way. Imagine the situation where judgments were delivered in a court like this, there are some similarities, what would that look like, by electronic means? One of the offenders might come at some point. So there's something called the recommended mail. No matter what, as much as I can support some of the things you're doing, I think it's too much in some parts and it's rigid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64989	The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64990	I will explain the request in Article 25, which will include all the other amendments concerning the wording "Minister in charge of the affairs of the register which is subject to, or subject to, these matters". Literally now that you have said that certain ministers are competent, depending on what register it is, these amendments are now becoming groundless, but I want to help clarify what my colleague said. I have no reason to trust Mr. Ciric as Kiric for the results of the privatisation. I really can't be so diabolical that I don't believe what he said in terms of registration. I also want to believe that people no longer have a problem with this request. If the application contains a form in which the delivery cube can be required in writing that you have submitted the documentation, I really consider it a cellular solution because, as when you raise cash on the machine asks you if you want a certificate, why would you throw paper, maybe someone doesn't need a certificate, they'll get a report at home on their computer about cash flows, and if you want, you say that you get that piece of paper that guarantees you've raised money. I think we should have confirmation that he is, but according to the minister's statement, there's no special request written, and the one who teaches directly gets it, and that's enough reason for us not to insist on it anymore. Thank you. Don't mind me using the time of this amendment to help clarify this previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64991	Thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64992	Now I'm just going to explain the second attitude because we discussed this second. We asked for Article 27, paragraph 2, to be deleted to read "the applicant cannot appeal to be referred to facts which are not entered in the application and documents which are not attached with the application". We ask that it be erased because you cannot restrict the applicant's right to call on facts and evidence that he considers to be of real importance to prove his right. I think it's something that's really wrong, but not only is it not right from the point of view of my taste, but it's inadmissible in terms of the right of the party. It is simply contrary to some general rules adopted by law, general administrative procedure, the Constitution. Whether these documents are going to be of any impact on your decision-making, that's a whole other question, and we can't interfere with those two things. You can't limit the right of someone who wants to exercise their right by telling them that you can't rely on documents that are not attached to the application. I believe this should have been adopted in order to protect the interests of users of services.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64993	The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. No one answered for the word. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64994	So we have submitted an amendment to delete in Article 29, paragraph 2. 4). An explanation for this amendment - we find it illogical for the minister to decide on his application in the event of the adoption of the appeal and the withdrawal of the registrator's decision, because the decision-making measure should be the sole job of the registrator. We therefore propose this amendment that the minister may either dismiss the appeal for procedural and other reasons, or, in the case of its adoption, return the case to the registrator for re-determination, as otherwise provided for in point 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64995	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64996	I accept your argument that you have given and therefore becomes a groundless story, because we have asked to set a deadline, you claim that this deadline exists, because it has been automatically going to the Minister in charge for five days, so I will not continue to discuss this and thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64997	Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. There's no answer for word. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted this amendment. There's no answer for word. The 31st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64998	I'm surprised you haven't adopted this amendment, if we've already accepted that it can't be a criterion for applying some of the rules in the general administrative procedure. I believe that this should also have been applied to Article 31, i.e. to take decisions in accordance with the legal means laid down in Article 1 of this Article and to produce future facts. You have your reasons why you refused. You're the government, so go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u64999	Thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65000	Thank you. Art. 39, 40 and 41 are talking about the right of a legal and natural person who wants to register a company at the agency to pre-book the company's name. It's really not clear to me what genius came up with this nakaradic solution. I mean, this is a circus. You're making up your own business. Isn't it more logical that when he submits complete documentation to the agency, the person who wants to register the company proposes the name of the firm. But this genius who came up with this wasn't enough to make up a reservation, he invented that a reservation, a reserved name, could be sold or donated to someone else. I quote the position of Article 2 41. – the reservation of the name may be transferred to another legal or natural person by the expiry of the period on which the name is reserved. We've suggested erasing this attitude. However, the government has rejected our amendment with the following explanation – the amendment is rejected for reasons that its acceptance would not improve the text of the law. Such a text of the law, such a legal solution cannot be improved by any amendment. This really sucks. It wasn't our goal to improve this. Our goal was to prevent you from turning the agency into a market, to create a market for business operators in the registration agency, as you did by removing the blanco resignations with the Serbian Parliament and local self-government assemblies, where you are now free, as at the market, like apples, mushrooms, pears, eggs traded with parliamentary and parliamentary mandates. We suggest you delete this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65001	Thank you, Mr. Maric. We understand. The 44th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. It's the last amendment. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65002	I didn't explain article 44 because the local self-government minister is not the only one in charge. You said they were all our ministers, but I have to comment on Article 48. We asked that Article 48 be deleted because the regulations that treated the registration, the procedure and this takeover of all other registers in your home will create, in our court, one legal void in which the legal conduct of the registration procedure in those other registers is prevented, so, not your business, that's fine, but for the others yes. How do you explain the refusal of this amendment? You say - the amendment is rejected because the provisions of those rules which cease to apply do not apply to the subject of registration and the conditions, but exclusively to the matter of the procedure. Then, further in your explanation, you say that the ministers in charge of these individual registers will prescribe how this will be done and that this will be handled in a unique manner. So there will still be a legal gap for one part, or for those registers for which ministers have not prescribed the procedure. What do I want to tell you? I think that this law was done not quickly, and it would be at least necessary for those rules to be given to MPs as a whole, that we have no case that any law does not enter into force or cannot be applied because that part of the accompanying regulations puts someone in a situation that he cannot solve. I'll give you an example of a zoo registration in Bora. A new law — an old law. Wait, no sublaw has been passed for the new law on animal keeping, and when, in the meantime, people really can't legally solve the keeping of their animals because the old law isn't valid, the new law has been passed, but they're not a follow-up act. This is simply one appeal to you and to the government in general that you bring bill proposals with all the accompanying documents so that they don't leave some people without being able to exercise their rights, and in fact, our goal is that these rights can be realised in the best and most qualitative way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65003	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. This time has exhausted both the authorised representative and the parliamentary groups. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Milorad Buh, Milorad, Dragan Stevanovic, Dejan Mirović, Zlata Djerić, Mirić, Miroslav Markić, Srđan Vrjavić and Vladić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65004	Just for a little while. As far as Article 2 is concerned, our assistance was to make one technical order and to bring this amendment and the addition of the Business Society Act into line with the very Business Society Act, because we already have in Article 9 in the position of the 2nd defined members of society and it is absolutely unnecessary and that this amendment should, once we have defined everything and who does everything, members of society and when they are already numbered in the previous position, be re-repeated. It may be done for the MPs to make it more clear to them who this member of the law applies to. As a matter of fact, I think that in a technical sense, the applicant's mistake, or the government and the ministry, is, however you will, which did not accept this amendment, because in any case, the text would be clearer and more technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65005	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65006	In Article 3. We asked the bill to delete the words "registered in accordance with the Law on Registration". What's the point? The bottom line is that in one material system law, there is no need to repeat legal formulations and point to certain, also, system laws that determine a certain procedure, certain procedural flows that are provided for in some other laws. In your argument, the amendment is rejected for the reason why the proposed form of the address for the reception of e-mail by economic operators could not be subject to registration in the register of economic operators. I don't know where you got that. It says – because the Business Society Act, as a material law, prescribes the subject of registration. Look, company laws, as a material law, are prescribed the subject of registration, and therefore, the content of the register of economic operators. Why in the Company Act? Why isn't that in that other law? It is further said – while the law governing the registration procedure regulates procedural rules for the conduct of the registration procedure, it is obvious that one material, and another procedural law does not regulate the same matter. That's the essence we've been telling you about in other laws and in these laws that we just talked about. There's no need, because we have one material law that's system law. Anything about a certain branch, a certain procedure, certain actions, certain facts to build into that law, and then we have no reason to duplicate, triple, etc. I'll use the rest of the four or five minutes. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, you stated the following – given that the law prescribed a delay in the application of the law, interested parties have been familiar with the provisions of the new law over the past few months. Interested parties. It's an extensive formulation. We have to tell who's on the side, which is why the interested parties are only now that the law has come into force and its application has started, and then they find themselves, and then they're talking, and they're getting along there, and so on. It's a little vulgarized, but basically that's it. It's an incomplete formulation under one law. It says – amendments and additions to the Business Society Act have been created as a result of the fact that stakeholders are pointing to certain ambiguities that the provisions of the new law could challenge in practice. I'm asking you, they're interested parties, and we don't know who they are. They showed it to someone, and someone probably passed it on to someone, so they passed it on to them, etc. And then we got a certain need to change the law. Where are the state authorities? I suppose they're interested parties, pragmatically looking, that they're not state bodies. The state authorities do not need to listen to someone, to talk to each other, but when they find that there are some ambiguities, that there are inconsistencies, that there are certain things that, in practical application and enforcement of the law, materialisation and implementation of the law do not correspond to legal formulation and real application, then these approaches are designed and drafted through public debate or without public debate. It is further said – The draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act makes technical corrections. How can we let a technical mistake happen in the law, so we have to correct it? It's not one mistake here, it's technical mistakes. That means more mistakes. Further – and the clarifications of certain institutes, so look, the institutes and the clarification of the institute are clarified, explains in the concept of which certain institutes are defined. The institutes are legal categories, they're like that. That's a theory. It's most likely that this is not about the clarification of certain institutes, but about legal formulations in the real implementation of a condition that has been caused by a certain legal norm, which we now have to interpret in a certain way, if a legal norm is firmly set that can't be interpreted, then we have to change it. Given the time, only one more attitude from this explanation of yours. It says – some ambiguities have arisen as a result of the adoption of a large number of amendments. That's where we have to criticise you, and we have to be very serious about it. What happens, especially in the adoption of some vital and some financial laws? The various political parties that make up the coalition, which make up the existing government, have different views in relation to the coalition and then come under pressure. That pressure leads to us not voting. Then what? The other coalition says – what should we do? You see, these from this party, from that party, and there's no party or party that doesn't condition and doesn't ask for its bite in the cake, and a little bit more than that cake. Then we go with the demands and the amendments, and the financial demands, and then it's said, "I won't vote for this." Then you step away from the policy that you've started - we're all one thing, and then we're all one, but we're all special and everyone takes from that cake. It's the basis for abuse, for crime, for robbery, for various bribery that you have in the coalition. We get amendments that get adopted here, that don't have a lifetime, that twist legal form, legal norms, we have a very bad practice, and then when we get living law, how do we change it? We're changing it this way, just because of these pressures, etc. Since it was a status law, there were not many amendments in this law, there were no major changes either. What you wrote here, I don't know who wrote this explanation, it doesn't stand, there hasn't been a lot of amendments adopted. The one who worked, the task force and the working body and the ministry that worked, made a lot of material mistakes. They're not amendments. Amendments to the rules, serious amendments and well-formed rules that go into amendments, always bring well-being in legal form and we get serious legislation. This law, in a statusual sense, did not have a proper public debate. He came here without serious expert debate. I, who follow this area, didn't know, finished, a month before he came into this procedure, that he lived, that someone was doing it, that someone was preparing him. I don't need to know him as a National MP, but it's up to the various institutions, or these stakeholders to seriously filter him out, not to be filtered by tycoons and someone lobbying over a certain financial situation and relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65007	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. There's no answer for word. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. There's no answer for word. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word will be made by Mrs Tabakovic. Let me just say, Mr. Buha, this is the time of the authorized representative used. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65008	Article 6 is treated by Article 148 of the basic law, and we have suggested that this Article 6 be amended in such a way as to delete Article 148 only paragraph 3 because we consider it wrong to delete the whole of Article 148. Because it should be done in accordance with Article 145. The company's company law is a minimum amount of capital of 100 dinars and I argue that there is no reason to delete both the positions of the first and second members, because they regulate a reduction in the capital base in the event of a loss when the annual financial report results in a loss of the company's net assets being less than the value of the underlying capital. The value of the underlying capital may be significantly higher than the minimum amount prescribed by law, and in that case, the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article cannot really be considered to be excessive. You have your reasons that you have stated for refusing amendments, and I have to accept them, because that is our reality, where you say there are a large number of companies, especially those in the privatisation process, where this kind of application of the member, as we have suggested, would cause great difficulties, because it would be a negative capital, and the interest of the state is not to put out. I understand that and can only regret that such an approach, which does not mean the write-off of someone's obligations or burden, because it is always on the burden of citizens of Serbia, is not applied in terms of protecting some other strategic activities, branches of businesses or at least inherited good legal institutes. I accept your argument, but I can't say I'm giving up, because I'm staying in my position, but you had your reasons, you just didn't write from the beginning why you suggested this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65009	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Antic Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65010	Another institute that appeared in the Business Society Act when we adopted it, seems to me, in May, which in some way should mean some security and greater transparency in the business of companies, when financial reports require a company to demonstrate potential loss of capital and that, when it comes to the basic capital in registering that society and the data it submits in the agency, it compensates that loss in capital. What we don't understand, and we haven't somehow got a real explanation from the ministers, by the government, is why is this institute so controversial? It seems to us that this institute is in some way not bad, that every transparency, every security in business and that it means to all economic entities in the Republic of Serbia, and that it should be an intensification when the law is passed. So, to help, we have a clear relationship between companies. That's why we felt that the government's proposal to delete this institute and the only argument is that it doesn't stand. In an explanation of what was most disturbing to us, that is what is said to make the business situation difficult for the companies that are privatized. That argument certainly doesn't stand. We have a lot of data that we have a large number of disputed companies that are in the privatisation process, that a good part of these companies are bought for relatively small financial amounts, that very often these prospectuses are non-transparent, and I would say in some ways reducing the value of that capital. There is no reason to allow these funds to be spilled from the privatisation process or the reduction of basic capital in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65011	I thank you, Mr Anticu. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. There's no answer for word. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Antic Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65012	Not only this amendment to the SNS, but a few next ones I don't know if my colleague is going to answer, but I think they're relying on this intensity. So it refers to this same basic capital story and possibly a negative capital enrollment. This article, which was proposed by the Government, a fact-finding economic offense, established in the Business Society Act, is hereby repealed, the possible procedure for determining a commercial offence is prevented, as the institute itself is being deleted. We, of course, agreed with that intensities from the previous amendment to Article 12 and to this Article 21, have also tabled an amendment and it is perfectly normal in the spirit of the fact that you did not accept the previous amendment, that you did not accept this one either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65013	The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65014	On the occasion of this amendment, I'm going to use two minutes to say that the amendment of the Business Society Act, then when we did it, was not the happiest solution and that it was not satisfied with many businessmen. I think many of the laws, which were solid, have been broken by later solutions. If there is a problem like this reduction in capital and bookkeeping, it is not as much in the company law itself, as it is in the Accounting Act, as much as it is in the Audit Law and as much as we have forgotten the basic postulates of funds and resources and as we have forgotten in some other grams of social life that one owner of a company can be very wealthy in private, and that it shows continuous losses and avoids paying taxes on profits. This is not a solution that needs to be achieved only by this law, nor by extending the deadline for this harmonisation, but by restoring faith in the profession of economists, and by doing so, it has to make laws and criminal measures for non-compliance with professions, not by leaving something on someone's conscience, and by keeping our experts in the courts in charge, and by making their assessments unique. There really is a serious job coming to all of us, if we want to keep up with these very important things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65015	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Jorganka Tabaković, from place: He is accepted. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. These are the good amendments that have been accepted. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Presumption of Actionaries You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Mladen Grujic and Dragan Stevanović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search on all amendments, so I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Change of OSIGURANJU You have received amendments that were submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz together and Zlata Đerić and Miroslav Markić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65016	As soon as possible. Until a new insurance law is passed, which you have announced, an extension of the life insurance and non-life insurance obligation is foreseen. It's like five times extending the deadline for certain documents, to meet certain conditions, and we're aware that the overall situation that exists cannot contribute to honoring the deadline at the moment we've previously given that solution. We have submitted this amendment to warn you, as a matter of fact, give a full law with all contributions or be realistic when you give some deadlines as too short for the Business Society Act, like this one for the separation of life and non-life. I know we need to be optimistic, but we need to find the right measure so we don't have another law to discuss, and already somewhere, if we meet in January, we're going to talk about this new law. Minister, admit how many lobby insurance houses he's asking, he's afraid of amending the Insurance Act. Please, money received for the development of the private sector – $34,900,000, which requires reducing the state's participation in insurance and financial institutions such as banks, that at least in insurance we don't work to have good and quality insurance "Dunav", where we have, I'm a little and biased, the person who runs this company extremely, so let's give us the opportunity to keep something in our possession, which is worth or in some later period, to receive a strategic partner, but somewhere below 50% of the ownership, and not to rush those changes in this direction where we're expected to receive some credit, not grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-22-0.u65017	Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue our work on Friday, December 23rd, at 10.00 hours.
