ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57822	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record, 79 MPs are here, but apparently there are more of us, so I'm asking you to establish the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we are found to be 84, that is, to have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Milica Radovic, Momo Colakovic and Konstantin Arsenovic. According to Article 90(1), I called on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to attend today's session, in addition to the proposing representatives, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, the State Secretary of State Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary Dr. Tinde Kovac - Cerovic, Assistant Minister Mr. Zoran Kostic, I also invited Mrs. Branko Totic, director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Natasa Ciric, a graduate lawyer at the Ministry of Education. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Optical Disks and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 4 and 5, before the opening of a joint principled search, I recall that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak each and every five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Nikola Krpic – MP's group PUPS, MP Miletic Mihajlović – MP group SPS-JS, MP Milica Vojic-Marković – MP group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Nebojsa Randelović – MP group LDP, MP Mileta Poscurica – MP group Advanced Serbia, and MP Radica Jocic – MP SRS. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. Is the representative of the Proposer, Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic, minister of education and science, wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57823	Dear Presidents, respected members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to present the elements of the Law on Optical Discs and Other Laws, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. When it comes to the Law on Optical Discs, one logical question arises – why did the Government propose to the National Assembly to adopt this law? In the course of joining the World Trade Organisation, the Republic of Serbia has committed to pass the Optical Disc Law and thus legally regulate the issue of the production of optical discs, the issue of commercial multiplication of optical discs, the circulation of optical discs, imports and exports of optical discs, imports and exports of optical disc production equipment. Thus, the adoption of the Law on Optical Discs meets one of the conditions necessary for full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation. I will remind the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia, as part of the SRJ between 2002 and 2005, has conducted negotiations to join the World Trade Organisation, and later as part of the Serbia-Montenegro community since 2005, this makes it independent. Since it is more members of the World Trade Organisation, primarily the US and the EU, they felt that Serbia should settle this issue legally and Serbia made a statement about it. Today's law regulates the issue of production, commercial multiplication, transport, imports and exports of optical discs and equipment for their production and reproduction. Essentially, by passing this law, we establish one legal certainty in this area and objectively bring down the volume of piracy, as well as preventing the force of illegal production of optical discs, thus preventing the avoidance of the payment of taxes representing part of, of course, public income. It should be said that at this point in our country, optical discs are the most commonly used medium for illegal multiplication of works, music, film and software, and the degree of physical piracy is one of the highest in Europe. The law therefore creates a legal basis to sanction and disable such illegal behaviour and the law should allow the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to fight piracy more effectively and efficiently. Logically, this goal will only be established, resolved or achieved when state control is established over the process of producing optical discs and their production parts and, of course, their legal traffic. When it comes to the process of making this law on optical discs, I remind you, and you have this in the light of the reason for the adoption of this law, that the Working Party for the Draft Law on Optical Discs was formed in June 2010, that the working group was made by representatives of several ministries and state bodies and the Ministry of Trade and Services and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Ministry of Culture, representatives of the Institute of Intellectual Property, representatives of the Customs Administration. The proposal is, of course, the Ministry of Education and Science in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On 23 November of last November, the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs set out a programme of public debates on the draft of the Law on Optical Disks. The public debate programme has been implemented. After that, a roundtable was held, that is, in the context of a public debate on the draft law on optical discs, in the premises of the Institute of Intellectual Property. Many representatives of the public and private sectors attended. I have already mentioned that the goal of adopting and establishing legal certainty is to regulate this important issue legally, but also to reduce the degree of physical piracy in the Republic of Serbia, which is among the highest in Europe. In order to achieve this objective, logically, state control over the process of production should be established, mentioning, once again, optical discs, their production parts, as well as their traffic. From now on, according to the provisions of this law, the production of optical discs will be able to perform only that legal person, or entrepreneur, who is licensed by the competent authority, and the competent authority is the Institute of Intellectual Property. The Law on Optical Discs does not regulate the production and transport of empty optical discs, but exclusively the production and transport of optical disks with recorded content, whether it is music, films, software or discs with educational content. Optical discs with recorded content are required to be marked by the manufacturer's codes. These production codes serve to provide an interested person with information on where the optical disc is produced, where it is multiplied. So both types of data will be available based on the production code. Based on the manufacturer's code, officials will easily distinguish between legal and illegal discs. When I talk about competent officials, I primarily think about the members of the MUP, the members of the Customs Administration and the Market Inspectorate. The Optical Disc Act establishes active co-operation between the Customs Administration and the Market Inspectorate. Imports of optical discs and manufactured parts will be required to be recorded by the customs authorities and the market inspection will be notified within the prescribed time limit. Each first working day of the month will receive this information, it will be sent to the Market Inspectorate, after which the Market Inspectorate, within the prescribed time limit, will exercise additional control over imported goods. So double control of imported optical discs was established. On the one hand, it's the Customs Administration and, on the other hand, the Market Inspectorate. The objective of the control of the circulation of optical discs is that the possibility of importing illegal optical discs with recorded content is reduced to the minimum possible extent. We will be in a position to discuss certain solutions to this law when we talk about amendments. The law is not great from the point of view of the number of members. You had a chance to meet him. I think the debate will be, to say, interesting, given that this law, in our opinion, addresses one of the issues about optical discs and general issues that are important for the protection of intellectual property, but also for preventing piracy in this area. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, I remind the National Assembly that this law was passed on 30 August 2009, as a new law in relation to the same names from 2003, which started a reform of education in the Republic of Serbia. At that time, by adopting the law, we promoted three objectives of lawmaking, which is to improve all three dimensions of education: equality, efficiency and quality of education and education. The reasons for the amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the expected results, from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, come down to the following: the changes are done to remove the problems that have been identified in practice. In fact, the law has been implemented for two years, quite enough time to see how high the individual solutions are or are not, and to improve the efficiency of the entire system and, of course, to comply with the laws that have been passed in the meantime, and to refer to this area. The results to be achieved by amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System are to ensure the rise in the quality of education in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the problems the law would solve, these problems concern the following issues. One question is about student education and disciplinary responsibility, the assessment of governance, the obligation to notify about changes in data regarding the student. The second issue is about employees, the question of admission to employment, taking over the list, overwork, disciplinary responsibility. The third question is the protection of personal data in the single information system of education and registers, as well as compliance with regulations, as well as other changes. The reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure are that changes are introduced which should be applied from school 2011/2012. A year. The second reason is the agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with representative unions in the Enlightenment on 1 April 2011, where the government has pledged to submit to the National Assembly by the end of August an amendment to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. We deliver these changes earlier, and we would like the National Assembly to adopt them. When it comes to amendments to the law regarding educational and disciplinary responsibility, the current legal solution to some serious infringements of student obligations has caused major problems in practice - cumulatively unwarranted lack and the doing of minor injuries, which has created a situation of disorder in educational institutions, in schools. It's an objective one problem that we wanted to solve with these changes. The present proposal only sanctions unwarranted absences, at least 25 absences, but we have also strengthened the school's obligation to inform parents or guardians of the students' absences after 15 unwarranted absences. So the school must respond after 15 unwarranted hours. The educational and disciplinary procedure against students has been simplified. A parent or guardian must always be informed of the procedure, whether the student is minor or not. The student must be heard and made a written statement, of course, with the presence of parents or guardians, if he is underage. It is necessary to identify all relevant facts before adopting a solution. The change of educational and disciplinary measures for the violation of the ban is according to the current proposal of reproof of the director or reproof of the teaching council, the transfer of students from five to eighth grade to a second elementary school with the consent of parents and schools to which students of secondary schools are excluded from school, i.e. school with the home of pupils. The following amendments relate to the establishment of a final assessment of the governance, in accordance with specific laws, the final assessment of the conduct of the management based on the examination of the personality and behaviour of the pupils in general, the assessment of overall behaviour and the implementation of obligations and the educational disciplines imposed and the numerical evaluation of the sixth grade. Obligations of students and parents are prescribed to justify the absence of students in good time. It is an obligation for students and parents to deliver valid and updated contact information, which affects the quality and efficiency of student, parent and school relationships. Entering children in school for education of children with developmental disorders based on the opinion of the inter-resor committee instead of a solution so far based on a recommendation from the selected doctor of the competent home of health. When it comes to amendments and additions to the laws relating to employee issues, i.e. employment admissions, the amendments concern the issue of previous examinations of psychophysical abilities. Now the law has set out solutions that only apply to candidates who have entered a narrow election. The selection decision shall not be bound by the time limit for the application, but by an eight-day deadline in which the director is obliged to obtain the opinion of the managing authority. The list of employees and school administrations will continue to be downloaded. The mutual takeover of employees indefinitely into relevant jobs, with the prior signing of the signing agreement, but not to increase the percentage of employee engagement of more than 20%. The persons who take over do not have to refer to the previous examination of psychophysical abilities. The possibility of hiring employees in certain cases and through prescribed norms up to six hours a week has been restored, extracurricular work. In the past, there was an obligation to receive another person, which increased the objective expenditure related to the different types of contributions compared to that of a new person to be employed. Now this work will be solved between the employees inside the school. It is shorter to conduct disciplinary proceedings against the employee. An expert associate, a librarian who was first founded working relationship in institutions after 25. 06. In 2003, and passed a professional examination in the area of library in the licence exam, a corresponding part of the examination was not recognised. When it comes to the provisions of the laws relating to the protection of personal data, we have aligned with the Personal Data Protection Act. The existing legal solution established the obligation of the institution to manage the database under a single information system of education in a unique information system of education and registers run by the ministry, where they are collected, processed, used and published personality data. When it comes to children, students, parents, employees, exactly what information is needed. In co-operation with the trustee, new provisions have been proposed in order to ensure that personal data are collected and processed in a manner consistent with the Personal Data Protection Act. Other provisions relating to amendments to the law concern the specificity of the performance of education, adults in the education system, which will be regulated by a special law. I expect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the law in early September. The right to compensation to members of the professional education and adult education council is prescribed, starting from 1. 01. In 2012, and immediately, I would like the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to draw attention to the fact that the reasons for this law mentions the amounts of funds relating to the assessment of the resources needed for the National Educational Council and the advice on medium-professional education and adult education. However, as the government has suggested that compensation of members of the board for secondary education and adult education should be determined on the basis of the government's decision to apply only from 1. 1. In 2012, meanwhile, the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will determine compensations for members of the National Educational Council, so for us it will be a kind of rapper for compensation and members of this council. The change in the composition of school boards of secondary vocational schools, three representatives of social partners in the field of school work instead of one, supervision, the issue of supervision of the work of the institute is only an inspection, not an expert-pedagogical one. We've been harmonising standards with the provisions of the Higher Education Act. When it comes to the means to implement this law, no additional resources are required at this time. The funds will be slightly larger since 2012, related to compensation for the work of members of the board for secondary education and adult education, and they will depend on the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to compensation from members of the National Educational Council. Compensation for these persons has the character of service per contract. Dear fellow Members of the People, we wanted to address two important issues with these changes. It is one thing to regulate the legal traffic of optical discs, production, prevention of illegal piracy, and the other to solve the problems identified in practice by amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational and Educational System, together with the trustee, the selection of information that is in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which is needed by schools, again the educational system for the adoption of appropriate educational policies and those provisions relating to the edifice-disciplinary responsibility, i.e. those issues we agreed with the representative unions of education on 1 April 2011, when we signed this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57824	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the committee responsible, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP Srboljub Zivanovic, want a word? (No) Does the chairman of the Education Committee, Mr. Jon Magda, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (Nico) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? Just to let you know that the authorised representative for the MP is Mrs. Zlata Djeric's group at these points. National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57825	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister Mr. Obradovic, today we are discussing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. The constitutional basis is contained in Article 97 point 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of laws whose amendments and additions were previously made are the desire to improve these three dimensions of education equality, efficiency and quality of education and education. The need for amendments and amendments to the law has been established to remove problems in the functioning of pre-school, primary and secondary education systems. The fact that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it certainly is necessary to plan the funds for the work of the advice on professional education and adult education. Certainly, the reason for the urgent procedure and the fact that changes are to be introduced that should be applied from the school year 2011-2012. We must conclude that the Ministry of Education and Education has had a lot of activity in the adoption and harmonisation of this law, which stems from the work of the Ministry itself and many educational institutions, primarily schools and others. But where's our family who's the childcare base? The PUPS parliamentary group, with due attention, considered this bill and fully accepted it. Of course, through the amendments, we will want to fix the text of the law to make it clearer and more reasonable somewhere, so that they can understand it and analyze not only top experts, but also parents, especially children who made this law and made it. Where are those kids? They're lost somewhere, they're gone. No one asks them or wants to hear what they suggest, what they seek, what they praise. The old ones write for the young, and the student parliament either doesn't have it or it's only on paper. This law also lacks a demographic picture of Serbia, which is crucial to the PUPS lawmakers, according to us. We believe that natural growth is the basis and cause of the biological regression of the population. We need to know what this population is for or to which this law should apply in the future. At the same time, we believe that the quality of human work in the education system must be better evaluated, because if a human factor is crucial in the transfer of knowledge, innovation, work in student workshops, in better use of technical and technological innovations and the possibility of using these funds. They certainly have a major impact on the quality of the education system, but also on the educational process in school and family. There is certainly a big difference between teaching staff at a rural school or at a school where poor local self-government or in large cities. We propose continuing economic policy measures in education. We mentioned the school's student parliament, what the youth's attitudes are. They seek and demand to ask more questions. That's normal, that's their rights. Dear Chairman, I assure you that the MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia's party have come to this debate very interested in the reason why we have all parents and cared about our children and today our grandchildren. For these reasons, we believe that the protective role of parents in school and social community is a vital link in raising children. We certainly propose to the Proposer to adapt and implement in every environment where children are all new education strategies contained in this law. At the end of this presentation, Mr. Minister, the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia in the voting day will vote in favour of this law. Mr. Minister, let's not let our young ones go into history before they grow up, because there's less of us anyway. If the correct fact is that in 2010, we had 68,304 newborn children, which is why we are passing this law, I must warn you that we lost 103.211 inhabitants in the same period. This information speaks for itself. Mr. Minister and gentlemen of Parliament, let's show state wisdom, knowledge, experience and responsibility, let's vote for this law. For all things, the MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57826	National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57827	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we hope that these amendments to the Law on the basic system of education and education will remove certain shortcomings that have been identified in the application of this law since September 2009. At the beginning of my presentation, I will present which solutions we consider to be undeniable good. We think it is very good that it is unequivocally regulated by the law that the resources for the work of the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is also good that it is unequivocally said at the beginning of this roof law that a law on adult education will be passed. We expect a assembly debate on the proposal of the law at the latest in the autumn. I hope that's real. This law would be extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, especially when we know how many unemployed persons we have and if we know that the purpose of these laws on adult education and in countries in the region is to re-qualify or re-qualify those persons who cannot work in their profession, who cannot use their diplomas that were acquired several years or decades ago. It is also good to specify this law of provisions regarding serious infringements of student obligations, or disciplinary obligations of students. I'm sure you know perfectly well, Mr. Minister, what problems we have in the field and about the so-called inclusion. I don't want to speak against inclusion, it's democratic, it's in line with European standards, but we have cases of certain schools or departments in some schools where classes simply don't take place in a normal way, as it's regulated by law, because in certain environments we have, for example, avoided and displaced persons who simply don't speak or know the language of teaching. I'll give you one example only, but I think it's a problem in the entire Republic of Serbia -- Horgos Elementary School. At Horgos Elementary School, Kanjiž municipality, we have quite a large number of children who do not know either Serbian or Hungarian. "Study" teaching in Hungarian language in Hungarian language departments and simply cannot follow teaching, interfere with teaching and there is a problem because parents are beginning to think, and I think the thing has gone beyond thinking, to copy, to take their children out of that primary school and to copy them into elementary schools in other populated places within that municipality. I think the state should deal with this issue more seriously. It is not also a matter of local importance, I am convinced that the problem exists in several municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm taking the opportunity to point out this problem that should definitely be solved, that is, to address this problem before the start of the new school year. Of course, certain steps were taken in a specific case that I spoke about earlier at the Horgos Elementary School. There are also the National Council of Hungary and the Regional Secretariat for Education and Local Self-Government involved in solving this problem, but I think coordination should be better and that the state should find some solution to this problem. When it comes to the database and the unique information system of education, we also feel that this area should have been regulated by law, that it was high time to be clear what is whose obligation, what is the right, what is whose authority, but I would also have a few questions about this solution, or I would like to point to several potential problems. I think we need to clarify who the user of that data is. We think that in an unequivocal way we should regulate that the competent authority of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina must also be the user of that data. Of course, we don't mind that this database and the information system being unique, we don't mind the Ministry of Education and Science being competent in matters, in terms of formulating the database and the single information system, but the user of that data should undoubtedly be the competent authority of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, it's the Secretariat for Education. We have several reasons why we think it should be regulated. One is that in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in accordance with the applicable Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, as well as the Law on the Determination of Certain Jurisdictions of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the province authorities exercise founding rights and supervise the work of educational and experimental institutions in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. When they already have those powers, it is no doubt that they need to know the basic data regarding educationally educated institutions in the territory of Vojvodina. On the other hand, Vojvodina, or the Education Secretariat, also performs entrusted tasks of organising exams for the director and secretary of the institution, as well as for the licence for teachers, educators and professional associates. While that is the case, and it is a good thing that so, then it takes the province's competent authority to have information about directors, secretaries, teachers, educators, and in general the institution where the founding rights are exercised. In line with what I said earlier, we have submitted an amendment that we consider to be an explanation of what powers are and what the rights and obligations of the AP Vojvodina. We have submitted that amendment to a member of the 40th basic law. This is Article 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. We have proposed a solution whereby the AP, through its authorities, keeps records and registers in the context of its original trusts, in accordance with the law and other regulations. We think that this solution is necessary in order to specify the competences and powers within the definition of the database and the unique information system of education that we consider, as I said earlier, to be set up and run by the Ministry. That's not controversial. The system is unique to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Before I go any further, I'd like to present the rest of our amendments to this law. I'd like to talk about two problems, or touch two problems. I talked about these problems two years ago, when we also discussed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System in July. One problem, or question, concerns school administrations. And then I asked the question – why does Subotica, as five cities in size in the Republic of Serbia, not have its own school administration, or any school administration, have its headquarters in the town of Subotica, regardless of what teaching is done in the territory of this city in Serbian, Hungarian, Croatian and Roma languages? We think this solution that exists a long time ago, that this city doesn't have its own school administration, should change. Of course, we know that it's not regulated by law, but it's regulated by sublaw. I also want this opportunity to launch an initiative for the Ministry, or the Government, to consider this possibility and to form a school administration in Subotica. The second issue or another problem I want to run for debate is the problem of the absence of multi-entity teachers in the Republic of Serbia. Multiple teachers would be valuable not only to minority communities, but to the education system of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the language in which the teaching is performed. We know that in a large number of municipalities and cities in Serbia we have a lack of teaching staff, that we do not have professional teachers for certain subjects. Once again, this applies to departments also in Serbian, Hungarian, Croatian, Slovak, Romanian, Albanian, Roma, etc. We believe that the solution could be, and this solution exists in countries in the region, to introduce the possibility of teaching multiple teachers, so that one person can be trained to have a degree, for example, a professor of history, and also has a degree in geography. We believe this should be regulated by amendments to the law on higher education and some sublaws. Again, as was the case with the school administration, this law is not in charge of this issue, but it certainly is necessary. I feel the need to raise this question, since I did it two years ago and, unfortunately, nothing about this issue has been done. You must know that this country has signed an agreement, and this agreement has also been ratified, on the protection of the Serb minority in Hungary and Hungary's minorities in Serbia. Under the agreement, an intergovernmental mixed commission has been formed. That commission meets every year. One such meeting was on June 20th this year in Budapest. The minutes from that session contain a recommendation for both countries, on the introduction of opportunities for the education of multiple teachers. When it comes to the rest of our amendments, I would very briefly like to point out one problem that exists in our education system since the adoption of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System nearly two years ago, which is the non-compliance of the solutions under these laws with the National Minority Councils Act. You're very good at this problem, and we talked about it two years ago. Unfortunately, between these two laws, there is a conflict. This legal conflict leads to huge problems in the field. The problem is that regulation is related to school boards and directors one in the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, and quite another in the basic law governing the issue of education. That collapsion was created because we submitted the amendments two years ago. We have also proposed solutions to this law that provides for the Law on Councils. These solutions have not been accepted, they have only been accepted in modified modified form. We have submitted amendments since we agreed two years ago, since we were guided by attitude – better anything than nothing. We could not rely on the Law on Councils, since the law was held at the same session as the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Mr. Ministers at the same session were both passed on 31 August 2010. The same sessions were held and we could not appeal to the solutions of the Law on Councils, because at that time the law was in the form of the bill. In the meantime, there has been a lack of cohesion, and since the Constitution has defined that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced, we do not think that those rights provided for by the Law on National Councils of National Minorities can be reduced, but the Law on the founding of an education and education system and that this should be brought into line with the Law on National Councils. What's this about? It is said that there are two types of schools, i.e. educational-experienced institutions, under the Law on Councils. In one class, the language of a national minority is also used, and in another type of institution the teaching is performed in most departments in the language of a national minority. It is, in fact, institutions declared as being of particular importance to the national minority. The law on the foundation of education and education systems does not distinguish these two types of institutions, these two types of schools. We think it's logical that the National Council has a kind of jurisdiction when it comes to schools in which several classes are taught in the language of a national minority, in schools where, to use that term, the language of the minority is a majority, since it is used in most departments. We have proposed these two amendments in order to remove this conflict. With the school boards, we're in a simpler situation because you've proposed to amend that member, which is a member of the 54th basic law. That's where we proposed amendments to some of the other views of this bill. The Director's situation is a little bit more complicated, because you did not, as a ministry or government, propose to amend that member, but we think that if we agree to adopt our amendment on the school board then it would be logical to finish the whole story and to remove that collapsing from the directors of the institution. We've got this problem, too, about the law in the field of culture. That's what I was talking about yesterday to Minister Predrag Markovic. We do not think that it is a good solution for Serbia to guarantee individual and collective rights to members of national minorities, to have certain opportunities, to have the rights of one law, to the Law on National Councils, and to adopt laws in the field of education, culture, official use of languages and letters, public information, and jurisdiction. It simply does not comply with the rule of law and the rule of law. That's why we think this colitision should be removed. I must also say this occasion, as I said yesterday and Mr Predrag Markovic, we simply cannot vote for laws which, in certain of our solutions, mean a direct step backwards in relation to the solutions that are envisaged and which exist in some applicable legal acts, in some applicable regulations of this country. You will agree that our task as representatives of national minorities is to fight for those rights provided by the current legal acts of the Republic of Serbia to apply in the future. We simply cannot agree to a reduction in the level of acquired rights when we talk about the rights of national minorities. It's not just about education. To point out once again this refers to culture and official use and public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57828	Thank you. Before I give my word to the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87 of the notice of today's work. Today the break will be set in time from 14.00 to 16.00 hours. The reason for the two-hour break is that on July 6th in Belgrade, work begins on July 20th. The OSCE General Assembly, that is, the Organisation for Security and Co-operation. The last time was held in 1975 under the title "Keps" and considered it significant and a number of MPs have obligations. Our work break will be from 14:00 to 1600 hours. We'll be working after 1800 hours based on Article 87(2), but I don't believe it. This afternoon we will exchange information, not after 19.00, 19.15 hours, as tonight the president of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic at the House is hosting a reception for 56 delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly. So today, we're just going to do a joint principle search that is currently under way. When it comes to working week, workday this week will be Friday. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57829	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, when we discussed this item of the agenda at the Parliament Club and agreed on who would be an authorised representative of the Parliament club, somehow it was logical that I, as a professor of the University, prepared a presentation on the subject, asked some questions, raised our dilemmas and so on. When I started getting ready for this part of the agenda, I met with the concepts: optical disk, production part, master voice, master’s equipment, production, code manufacturers, licenses for production, room licensing and so on. I wanted to be prepared to talk about the amendment of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, so it's not exactly the clearest logic for me to combine these points of the agenda, because one law falls within the sphere of industrial property and copyright, from the legal point of view. The second law I want to talk about is actually something that needs to define the core, development and future of a society, it's education. I have to admit, this is the logic of joining the dots of the daily routine, because then I'm in the middle of a dilemma about how to talk about one and the other. I'm not an expert on both subjects. Obviously, this approach to the realization of the agenda requires some universal know-how, and these are mostly ignorant, and since we don't cultivate LDPs, I'm only talking about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems. Of course, I have a dilemma here, or I'm in front of a dilemma that needs to be opened because this area in our country is like that, wherever the finger is, the impression is that everything is rotten. I am very sorry now, that we should have a discussion with Mr. Obradovic, with my colleague Mitrovica, who I am sure is in 99% of the views on this issue agree with me. The situation is found, difficultly variable, it takes a long-term process to change such a situation. It's actually, I'd say "circulus viciosus" of a fallen and disoriented society whose regression lasts for 20 years. Such a process, such a regression in a society, is hard to change and the most responsible approach to writing and the realisation of a law. It's a serious problem that our society still finds the answer. Now I would refer to the very essence of the problem, and later I would consider parts of the measure of this law. Of course, I'd also like to ask a question in an explanation, a reason to pass the law. The explanation given quite correctly, it is said – the goal is to improve all three dimensions of education, equality, efficiency, quality of education and education. And then there is an explanation, during the almost two-year application of the law, the need for amendments and additions to the law to remove the identified problems in the functioning of the pre-school, primary and secondary education system has been identified. Logically, comprehensibly, necessarily, of course, I would add the question why the emergency procedure for the law that passed the consultation process? Why now in July? Why so fast? I would return to the essence of the law itself, one of the intensities is to shorten the deadlines for the responsibility of the professor and some other disciplinary measures. Where is this place for the urgency of the procedure of a law that has passed, I have already mentioned the consultation process? We have consulted various trade unions that demagoguely, fighting for the rights of enlighteners in fact are fighting for their place in the whole system, we have consulted professors, we have consulted students, I have also talked to my students who were sitting in high school benches yesterday and it would be a little 20 minutes to tell me everything that is actually imposed as a topic and what should be imposed as a topic of today's debate. So I'm just going to give a few illustrations, saving time for all of you and my time, and illustrations of the striking and they're actually opening some serious questions. It won't go in some methodological order, because each of these illustrations is a theme for itself and each of these illustrations is a problem for itself. First of all, the disciplinary measures, we have given two amendments to this section of the law. The students are not about for disciplinary measures to be tightened, but we have received a question from the representatives of the professors, to which they themselves do not have an answer. How to introduce order, especially in high school. We have a lot of examples that teachers themselves are some kind of target for firing where they can't help themselves either the state or society help them with what their basic tasks are. It's the education and training of young people. Is it necessary to approach drastic disciplinary measures? It may be one of the solutions, for example, many absences, or rather not to list what is next. The question is whether this is the way to deal with legitimately dissatisfied young people in a fallen and disoriented society, what kind of society is the state of Serbia. To that question a brief and clear answer, I don't think there is. Now we need to agree on a common method of getting out of that vicious circle. Then a question called too many cities. Someone's responsible for that. How many unnecessary things, how many unnecessary data to remember in order to get rid of or earn grades and then forget, because it is necessary to forget these data, so that the intelligence of young people will not be burdened in such a way. How do you get out of this problem? The discrepancy of the content of textbooks with contemporary movements in society. Two examples, and there are thousands. For example, in economic schools, a textbook from accounting and a collection of tasks. They're completely out of sync. The task set monitors modern regulations, changes, let's say that VAT is recorded and so on. The accounting textbook does not follow these processes. Where do children learn and how to learn and how to learn? History textbooks. A bunch of unnecessary data and one terrible approach to one of the most interesting things about history. History is a story, history is a teacher of life. And instead of our young generations getting such guidance from their educators, they get the task of learning a bunch of dates that they can't explain, which are hard for teachers to explain. Let's not talk about what's written in those history books. Shall we go back to the existence of ideological committees who will choose what is similar and what is inappropriate to put in history textbooks. What about harmonising something called history with that same object in neighbouring countries? Something happened or it didn't happen. It can't have happened in different ways in Croatia, i.e. that something is interpreted differently in terms of how it is interpreted in Serbia or BiH. There are positive cases. There are textbooks that treat the history of the state and the real, and are used in both Serbia and Croatia. No one's talking about it. No one's writing about it. Looks like it's a taboo topic that can't be opened. I stand behind examples like that and textbooks like that. Not to mention the problems both students and teachers face in conducting their studies. Unequipped cabinets. Or, let's open up the subject of physical education. It used to be called physical and health education. An extremely important segment of development and an extremely important subject in all normal countries. We have the intensity of reducing class, because there are no conditions. Do we know how many schools don't have a gym? Over 95% of physical halls are inadequate for physical education. In Nis, three schools, an economic, commercial and catering company uses one gym. Three departments hold a class in the same room without being able to meet the basic hygiene needs after performing physical education. Normally, 17-year-olds and 18-year-olds don't want to go to physical education class because they can't afford to continue teaching afterwards. Nobody cares about that. That's why I don't even see the solution in the perspective. I asked one of my friends, who's a physics professor at one of the schools mentioned. He says, so what do I do three classes of 30 students, that's 90 students in the O.R. They can't do anything, they can run a little bit, and then I tell them, kids, let's go to the locker room, what can I do to you. Those in charge of implementing these programs are faced with unresolved problems, simply raising their hands. Let's not open a problem, say, religious teaching. We have a situation where sometimes our kids come from school, because they talk to them about evolution for one minute, and then someone comes to them who tells them it's over in six days, so on the seventh day, someone sits down to commit and rest. Of course, religious education and education are necessary, but in the right way. In my opinion, this Article 21st point 4 of the proposed law is not very clear, which are the criteria in the decision-making process for selecting teachers of religious teaching, the real ones, I say, not enough. Is it okay that those who are not right teach religious education and give us the basics of religious education to our children? On the other hand, I'm the teacher's problem and I've already talked about their problems, bringing out what they've located as problems, and on the other hand, do we have the right to be angry with these people? The fact is that our children spend more of their time than they do in their fifth year of age with these people than they do with us. With great confidence, we give these people children, expecting them to help us train and make them educated and ready to live. Then the question arises how teachers are motivated and how they are rewarded for their work. Let's motivate someone to do their best, when he's on the verge of social misery himself. What kind of motivation is that? He's got an altruist, he's got a crush on his job, he's got people who have incredibly good results, but it's just enthusiasm. Enthusiasm doesn't make you live, these people work for money. Does our country have a solution to this problem? She hasn't been around in the last 20 years. I don't think the problem will be properly solved anytime soon. So let's apply a law that, basically, isn't bad with problems like this. The deep social problems of a fallen society, how to solve them regularly. We in the LDP have said a million times that all of this takes a turn. One small group of MPs with many good wishes is absolutely not enough for such a turnaround. Do we have answers to such questions? Of course, at the end of the day when I said a few things to say, although I have set out in the measure of the law we have tried to improve this law with two amendments and when there is debate in the particulars of my colleague and I will give an explanation of these amendments. One on Article 17, one on Article 25, and they have been done in a very correct way with consultations with ministry representatives. I am convinced that this important law will be improved in this way, and I urge the representatives of the ministry to seriously consider amendments and that these amendments become an integral part of this law. I'm going to finish my presentation, because I've already mentioned that the problem and the topic is so much, not 20, but 2,000 minutes to sum up all the problems in one discussion, and I don't know how long enough to solve these problems. I don't see a bright spot at the end of the tunnel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57830	Two minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57831	I thank you ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, here we are doing again the amendment of the law in the field of education, we are used to these changes, although since 2003, 2004 we have passed on several times, changing laws, basic laws, indeed in this area which are high-level, which scientific and technological development is now united into one ministry. So, all this comes into consideration for every law is the legislator, so the other minister always, thank God that it is so, that it is not one like we had for health, saying that the law that is adopted by the Europeans, that it carries a full democratic capacity, that it really carries something new in the educational space of Serbia, that it will be in agreement with a strategy that is somewhere in something it has been brought, somewhere it is not mentioned, somewhere it is given, that it has been given, that last decade, that there is no clear strategy, and everyone wants the strategy of a high education system and the vision of the distribution of human beings in this Serbia, one day we know who will and what it is going to do, will work for everyone? To make different decisions as important as you're going to do now, I can see from these changes on the records so arranged, as if the records and the data that are going to get the basic meaning and the giving of the rapper for all, as if there was no more knowledge of it, but that this is now a record, so they're going to help us do everything. But in this story, I'll start from the beginning, for a reason. So efficiency, equality and quality are our trends, meaning, intentions why we're going into change, why good, once said good laws are now being corrected. On the other hand, has anyone ever wanted to change what's changed in lawmaking, so the amendments, let's just say, haven't been adopted? I don't know, and I can't argue, perhaps no one at that time, sitting on the eh cathedral, really a remote issue of secondary education, and yet because of their children, friends, family, family, again in some relationship with education has not recognized anything and generally that guilt is equally related to everyone, but we're absolutely sure that the amendments that were, or were not adopted, that the proposals at the time had to be updated now, but given as a proposal by the state and a proposal from the government, and then that's the end of the story. What efficiency are we going to talk about, what equality? What are we doing in this law to do equality? If we look at all the participants in the educational process, the equality of students to watch the most freely that those who have certain problems in certain psycho-engine development have been taken care of in Serbia that they have the right to school. Introducing, giving meaning to this interdisciplinary commission is not some incentive of equality. I want to try to figure out whether it's just here, in the light of the reasons for the law being passed, that it's just like some kind of matrix as the basis for the idea of saying something by law or really being seen that there's no equality somewhere. Is there equality in the election contest? No, it's primarily a political decision, but about that-road with the papers going to the bureau and there it's known exactly which parties it's going to go from and many other ways are involved, you're not asking me to report to anyone, but I know the names of the people who told me they were doing so, it's reality in Serbia, etc. I hope for these things said no one will lose the right to speak about it or be granted immunity, because this is the opinion of a representative of the people, also addressed by some other people in Serbia, who has problems with equality, to get a job without speaking to the director, but it is difficult, of course, and almost impossible, although you have not already signed anywhere. About efficiency, what have we done to make the law more effective? Perhaps by means of disciplinary measures, few students are obliged to behave as students used to act. If we go into the story once we act, we risk recognizable seniors, that we want to take the handcuffs back. Come on, in that rapper of student-teacher relationship and get back, let the content plans, the programs go forward and at last as aging no one can stop, they have to go forward, if for nothing else, and then because those who address their children are going to surrender, they're talking about it less and less and less to force children to prepare classes, to have children as bearers of activity. This new system of values that you're promoting to prepare a minor child to get a job, integrate, so be my guest. It takes him three hours of lectures to understand what's going on in the integrals, but I'm not saying if anyone doesn't dare, they're smart mathematicians, they won't even let it go, but many of them in history will, many in biology, many in language will let children lead lessons. Come on, in this efficiency, that the professor and all those in charge of the chain of responsibility, we make through his daily analysis through the notebook in which he keeps records and if he kept the class or forced the student to hold the class. So the efficiency of this species, what efficiency, comment, is not registered as a problem, is put here, but we don't see from the law what helps, when it comes to strikes, the King, the elementary disasters, schools destroyed, they couldn't work, they're looking for lower criteria for enrollment. They strike for three months, the enlighteners get something, they don't get something, you don't think it reflects on kids? The children are the victims. We want to sharpen something on children's responsibility completely agree, children are often and quite rational, they don't respect their teachers, but where the teacher's fault is, and why don't you know if she's a student or a teacher when they're about age, in the fourth year of high school who's more edgy, smelled, manicated, dressed up, how she doesn't know herself anymore in our high school in some circumstances close to age, but the difference between what a student is, what is a teacher? Well, then let's do it now by punishing little boys who are decent at that age, of course, and they have to be a little bit and somehow orientated to give their teachers the opportunity to communicate with everyone and that it's going to be some serious offense, etc. There are other provisions when it comes to them, but we'll try, the quality comes from everything together, the quality should be the consequence of both effective work and the consequence of what it is for, here already mentions people who will get good money from the budget, or from one or the other, or the National Educational Council, which will create education. Whether they will bring in some adequate teaching programs, whether they will adequately modify the programs and plans, and whether they will ask their bases from which they come, whether they really need it or not. I sincerely hope that this team, these tips, the people of this educational resort will not reach for the dragonous changes in the education system, as it was done in the sphere of higher education, along with Vuksanovic and the team. What we did when we were getting Bologna and what no one dares to analyze and say, the final effects of our incomplete and unnecessary run-off, in changing what really has nothing to do with politics and had nothing to do with it, and in high education, has nothing to do with the political ambience with the fact that mathematics or the biochemical processes are working. So, we changed something, we went into it, we formed a law, we formed institutions that help law enforcement and create an education system, so on. The Council for Higher Education and Science and Technological Development, which should provide guidance for the development of something that we have legally framed. It seems to me that this law of primary, secondary education we haven't gone so far as to have set everything up in advance, and then we gave these tips that the sausages are playing something, and that game won't be in vain, it'll be very well paid, as we can see. I'm going to go along these general specifics now, we're going to bring, we're going to expect a law on adult education, because there's advice that we have to deal with, and we expect that they're going to bring something about it, and we're going to wonder what it's going to be like, the concept of education, and I've seen some strategies on the website, and there's something that can be said to be done. As for the member we're changing third, fourth, it's about the database. It is quite clear that anyone who carries a diary, who works at school, knows with how much data in his operational work is required to carry out in continuity. It is sometimes a nightmare for class elders and other participants in the class and those who help them. Now they've got some assistants in class, and I haven't figured out exactly what it is yet, but it's gonna be easy to get a job. Local self-government recommends, that's quite clear. There, you see, equality and there's local self-government, but this is a salta, it's not a transition to a future topic. So that record really means the sum of the data. You just can't find everything in the diary written down. A lot of database records have to exist and probably some new people are going to enter that data. These databases, which are some kind of records, when it's all gathered into the ministry's unique information system, who's going to do it there, how and how much will software cost for it? How will the hard drive be done? Who's gonna pass that tender? What happens when it unites? It is, of course, useful to come to that, but we can see that somehow puts it in the first place. In large letters, the law has been amended, although records and data have already been included in the old proposal. There was such detail here, which we now think is somehow not formally logical. The data on institutions, on the one hand, and data on children and students, is somehow two groups of data to be exorcised here. Now, when you see what about children, students, participants, I say, in the education process, it's not the legal term used, but I think it's clear to everyone, everyone who has education, from child, to guardians, teachers, etc. So when you speak in this second attitude, you say that there is ultimately an assessment of the need for additional educational, health, or social support, and above are all the participants in teaching. Turns out the school will now keep records of foster parents and guardians if they need an estimate? Of course, attitude 7 shows that this does not apply, or the health condition of parents or guardians. But as it stands in Section 2, the data on this and the team, all groups are numbered and you can see what will be asked of everyone. Imagine that, God forbid, that's the way it is. Who would enter such information? Who would have brought those beliefs? Who would report their receipts? How much does this require a major operating procedure, how many procedures? How many tens of thousands of employees do we have in health care? How many students do we have? How many parents? When you look at it, how many people will get into the records? Somewhere I might be able to use existing records. The M.O.P.'s got a lot of it. But this will probably start over. There, for God's sake, a lot of computers are going to have to buy and there's going to be work for good tenders. Now that you look at why it's all done so much, the purpose of data processing, and when you read it, it's a philosophy run by the ministry. That's the whole philosophy. So, when it writes to you, you completely philosophy, efficiency, promotion, study, monitoring, but also international research, as if we couldn't have relevant data, give someone for some international comparative research, as if we didn't have a reference institution, the Statistics Institute, which by nature things could make comparative actions. It's not, of course, the main problem why we're trying to correct the amendments, but simply who's going to use the data? It's organs and other organs and organizations. We can guess who other people are and who other legal and physical faces are. It will be determined by a minister or someone else, who can be, and now that we're discussing it, we can't tell the principals of schools, educators, children and their parents, who are giving their personal information, who will have insight into it. You can see for yourself that people are returning loans, which someone took his name, read somewhere, and people are being sued for buying I don't know what, tractors, combiners, and ordinary pensioners in Belgrade, who don't even have 20,000 dinars, are supposed to pay back 200,000 dinar loans, because someone has abused their name somewhere. Therefore, no personal data protection institution has helped. You predicted literally everything, even the almost color of the pupils. Updating the data, there is no time interval in which it is said – to be up-to-date, you have to correct it for so much and so much. Most data is obtained during enrollment. The registration deadline is the biggest problem for institutions and colleges, it is the enormous overtime of many people who do so. How it's gonna work, we'll see about that. Now let's go to these tips, which I was already talking about. It's not just a matter of the number of councils, we're when the law was passed, I'm absolutely sure, a large number of then opposition political parties were trying to reduce the number of council members, but if you're going to set up everyone who wants to stand out and prove that their position that they defend is very reference and important to get into that council, then it turns out that it has to be so much. So they are very numerous, over 100 or more people in different councils, at a different level in a particular sector of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, for higher education. How many committees? How many commissions? For God's sake, it's hundreds of people who are employed and who will work for the good of the system. In the end, this law still saw the ministry through its people, via likely information from the field what was wrong. We don't see here, it's nowhere explicitly put -- it's the ones that formed, then the advice, then the commission. You see, people have earned a salary of maybe 200,000 gross, which will be if those 5-6 million split by 21. So it's really something enormous that you're proposing here. Ensure that they are also from the budget, and then you say that the EU is for rationalisation, that it is for reducing the administration, that it is for reducing public spending, etc. Now, you see how it multiplys to a drastically large extent. It'll be a salary to anyone on something they already have. There's no one here who's not working anywhere, or there's gonna be a rare case, but who's he representing if he's not working anywhere? That could be a different solution. We have submitted a different kind of amendment. Of course, if you're looking at the other side of public companies directors, board presidents, this is a toy, 100,000 is a toy against tens of thousands of euros per month, five, six, etc. Flight control, Serbiagas, let man wonder what country we live in? Well, if this one is doing something about our children's education, let's give him those few average salaries of Serbia. But the question is how long and how long can it last like that? The school administration should really work on it through inspection supervision, without political influence. When it comes to the selection of directors, not lobbying the election of directors, and for that I have examples, that it does so directly and indirectly, not that it is done by the presidents of municipalities, as these people are breaking into houses and forcing members of the school board to vote one way or another. The presidents of the municipalities invite members of other parties to solve the problem by offering to fire a member of the party, here, the one I belong to. So it's pretty politicized, and that partocrat took the swing, of course, and in education. Many political party officials who are in the ministries become simply unnamed, but the main people through whom the job ends when it comes to getting a job, to open a new job, so, of course, to young people or those who are no longer young, have long resisted, it seems the only chance of getting into a job is to enter a political party. It's unfortunately a reality, and someone should put an end to it. Obviously, I won't be able to touch everything, but we have this other part of the story. The competence of the managing authority – this has been fully given in the process of decentralisation in local self-government. Where I am, in Kragujevac, a little or little, so you get – this member changes, and that member changes. So it's easy to identify from part of a parent, who's not a member of the coalition, he'll be replaced. The school director's election, etc., there's no talking. Professors who are alike, it's highly politicized indeed, the school boards are truly highly politicalized, and that you can't expect progress. Who's going to raise their voice and say, "We're not going to give a school dinar for it, we're not going to pay to renovate at school when they already have sponsors of this kind or that kind, we're not going to have crazy ideas to pay out of our own pocket, we don't have us, and our kids don't have lunch, etc., and we have to pay kids for school. It was a test now. Minister, you know. You've also visited those who've passed a small graduation and you know for those who've filed for colleges. Do you have any idea how many percent of the kids who were writing and taking classes didn't go to private classes? Whoever I know, the ones my kids hang out with, they went to private classes with my kids, and they're all great school kids. What we've actually achieved in efficiency if we have to admit that one elite high school is not able to provide enough knowledge to pass the exam, but everyone has to go all the way to the university professors who teach the relevant subject to prepare the children. Who is and what is effective? The power of the managing authority, I started about it, is to choose the director, but it's all very politicized and sometimes, I'm sorry to get into some kind of saltatory story, so I mention really ongoing problems in the education system, which is just the absence of quality and efficiency of work. Not that it's bad programs, not that it's maybe excessive knowledge from chemistry, but that one wasn't even giving it to him. He gave him a lesson on his own. How is a child just going to prepare an organic chemistry class? He needs to be taught by a professor who teaches it to him, and that possibly for vagueness to consult for months and a year, children go to architecture, they prepare for the university itself. That institution that the university is preparing, that's terrible. They're taking money from those kids. Estimates of who has the money, and then they end up getting a smooth fit, and then these kids go to an out-of-bududge education. Look at the relationship. I've entered the sphere of higher education, but it's all the efficiency of the education system, and it's preceded by this medium and professional, and that's why sometimes it has touch points. You don't think I'm conscious of this story. (President: 20 minutes. ( ) As for enrollment, enrollment studies, there is a conversation with a pedagogue and it has always existed. However, change is being introduced today, and I will talk about it at the next beginning of the story. Maybe some of the elements in this bill should be bypassed, as we have amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57832	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57833	The Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are considering two laws, one that is for the first time adopted, and this is the proposal for a law on optical discs and the second law is from the field of education, and this is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which we adopted in 2009. So they may not be thematically close to these laws, but it is clear why they are together in the debate, because both laws stem from the work of the ministry covering these areas: education and science. When it comes to the Law on Optical Discs, I think it is easy to conclude that it is necessary to pass such a law, because the new time, which has brought new technology, has also brought new opportunities for the easy adoption of intellectual property from those whose intellectual property does not belong. Of course it's not just about our country, our society, because we're part of the world, regardless of the current state of integration in the world. These are questions of a planetary type that are very important and we need to fit into what the demands of today's world are in this regard. So, by joining the WTO, we have previously received this obligation and all countries, as is said in the text of the reasons for the adoption, since 1 January 1995 they are under obligation and are subject to regional verification and analysis of the legislation relating to the protection of intellectual property. Our country has committed itself from 2002 to 2003, then to the SRJ, later Serbia-Montenegro, and since 2005, it has itself voiced its obligation to regulate these issues in this direction through the adoption of legislation. Given that it is such a matter and such action, it is almost clear that it is one of the concrete conditions that we need to meet to join and become tomorrow's EU candidate. I would not go into the details of this law that deals with specific issues in this area but, in any case, we agree as an SPS-JS parliamentary group with the text of this bill and we will vote in favour of this law. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, to remind ourselves that this law was passed in 2003, that it was complemented and amended in 2004, and in 2009, there was a need for its major amendment and amendment, but given that these amendments and additions were quite necessary for them to be implemented, the Ministry of Education then proposed that it be a new law and the National Assembly passed this new law, harmonising it with new standards, norms, with other laws that had been passed, with the current moment and changing all those problems which, meanwhile, the practice showed that this should be done. We today, after not two years of age, have again on the agenda changes and additions of this law and someone will say – again you put it on the agenda, what you were doing two years ago, etc. The SPS-JS parliamentary group considers it perfectly normal and natural that from time to time the laws that we have adopted before come again, even if it is in the near past, if there is a need to comply with new standards or with other laws adopted in the meantime. If practice in the past has shown that there are certain problems in what it is to regulate certain issues in that area, it is perfectly normal for these laws to come back here for review, for supplementation, for changing and adapting to what is the current moment and what are needs in that area. I could now also direct criticism to some ministries that avoid putting certain laws on the agenda, holding it firmly to the fact that these are ideal solutions that were given a year, two or three years ago, etc. I don't want to go into any further discussion of this guy and make a disassociation in terms of criticism and ministries of other laws. It will be an opportunity at other times, when we discuss some of the issues that are in this sphere. When it comes to these changes and additions, it is important to realize that this concept of change and complement holds what are three, so to speak, the dimensions of this law, which is equality or equality, efficiency and quality of education. It is very important to say that these changes and additions are also in what has been discussed with representative trade unions, which shows that the Ministry has heard about hearing its partners in what are the interests of the union, finally the interests of all the employees in the field of education, and that these talks at some point, when there were problems in that sphere and when the union's demands were made, these talks with the Ministry were quite serious and that, based on these talks and the protocols made up, we today have one realisation of what these requirements were and now it appears in the form of changes and addition of these laws. Also, I would like to say that in collaboration with the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, what is the collection and processing of personal data in institutions, it is in line with the Data Protection and Personality Act. We have here one sphere and one dimension in this law, one modern moment, one achievement in what is data that we have to read at one global level, which means at the level of the Ministry, that we have the integration of a whole network, in one information system, and mastering with all data concerning and what is relevant and what are students and what are certain references of people who do or who have a particular role or function in the education system, through the keeping of a register, etc., and on the other hand that all data needs to be protected in accordance with this relevant law. Of course it's very positive and good that it's embedded and regulated in this law. When it comes to managing bodies, changes have been made here in what is the definition of the governing body, which covers this as a term and what is the governing body in both schools and kindergartens etc. Then, we also have this question that in secondary vocational schools, representatives are three representative from this field of activity that the school deals with, which is quite all right. But here I would say, when the managing authority is, it would refer to what the criticisms are about the functioning of the managing authority, in terms of the selection of the director or the performance of some other functions. To remind ourselves that the managing authority of the institutions involved in education is a tripartite body, consisting of three parts. One section belongs to the school, usually to teaching staff, three representatives, the other part to the parent's advice, which autonomously proposes its representatives and the third part, in a narrow sense, are representatives of local self-government. I would even be able to criticise that moment that was given in the law even earlier, which is a statement by a teacher's council, or a collective in this regard, giving an opinion to the proposed candidate. I personally think that the current director who re-competitions has the right to influence the collective and to get those votes. By the nature of things, the collective is usually conservative compared to the changes, compared to the newspapers and will rather be defined for the status quo of the collective, compared to some changes, even if the situation at school did not work. Why, then, would not an opinion arise, as an institutional opinion from the advice of parents, or even from local self-government, in order to paralyze this opinion by a teacher's council, or collective? Of course, this issue at this point of change and supplementation is not being processed, but I'm simply running for some possible change in the next period, of course I'm not suggesting that I'm right, but I think there are certain problems here. The issue of student rule, as a category that is estimated from first grade to fifth, there was a single correction and one that was made in the previous year, and from sixth, the evaluation goes at the end of the semester and at the end of the school year by a numerical assessment, then, the investment and assessment of success through the arithmetical environment, by adding all these grades from fifth to second. So, governance is one educational category and since it's a educational process, it's one activity that has two dimensions, a dimension of education, that we can't think simply in the direction today that only education is one person of the category which is relevant and which is most important, and that education is something secondary, almost irrelevant. So, one complete personality, today implies both knowledge and control with facts and expertise etc., but on the other hand one culture, one education that only then gets to the quality of what this complete personality is. Today we have successful people in both science and sports. We have a picture in front of us, perhaps, of the current, etc., but this success of these people who are top-notch in science and sports and art is much greater if it is about people who know how to behave, who are cultural, who are entrenched by that dimension, not to say roughly raised, that we do not understand this banally. Injuring student obligations, I would comment on that, when it comes to unwarranted absences, where we have a reduction from 35 to more than 25, so that 25 is the limit where the alarm is alarmed in terms of the expression of certain educational and disciplinary measures. Our MP club supports it. Someone will say that the rights of students are narrowed down by reducing the number of absences from 35 to 25. I would remind the students that they should be able to have their obligations and their rights, but it is their right to attend regular school, to learn and achieve results. No real student should be aware of any other spheres of anarchy, destruction, etc. If we're going to increase students' rights by giving them 100 unwarranted absences to justify, then the meaning of what is the arrangement of a system is lost, which is the design of a system in the direction of achieving what is the ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is the education of one person and education and the creation of a complete personality. Therefore, any violation of certain standards does not belong to the sphere of law. The rights exist in the sense that they have the right to try to justify their unwarranted absences to a certain limit, and, of course, if they cannot do so in the presence of parents, they are subject to certain sanctions. In that sense, we also have one amendment that we have attached to Article 17 which is not related to this number of absences, but it is about serious violations of student obligations. Now the law says – in the educational and disciplinary procedure, the student must be heard and made a written statement, and if he is a minor in the presence of parents. We have proposed an amendment which, in a different way, seems better to us, of course, in consultation with representatives and with the minister, that in the educational-discipline procedure the student with the presence of parents, or guardians, as well as all other participants and witnesses must be heard and can make a written statement. So in all these processes, we have to involve our parents more. The student is not the subject with which we only communicate and solve things, saying educational and disciplinary measures and solving all these problems. We must remind ourselves of what is an experience, which is a teaching science, that in a pedagogical triangle a parent-school student solves all these problems, whether this student is underage or minor. Only on these grounds can we achieve those desired effects and results. Finally, I would like to comment on this issue of mutual takeover of employees indefinitely with the prior signing of the agreement between schools and giving consent to teachers who cross if the difference in their workmanaging is less than 20%. We think it's a good solution and it'll make it easier for a lot of questions from working relationships, and what's the point of filling in individual schools. Also, this possibility of a certain number of classes not being treated as overtime will make it easier for one situation where we had to call a competition in two hours, to receive etc. Of course, there is also a need for good control and an insight into the ministry and its organs, in order not to abuse it. Of course we could still talk and say what the SPS-JS attitude is, but time is running out. We'll continue through the discussion in detail. I am once again pleased that we have come to a quality proposal for a law on amendments and additions to this law and we will certainly vote in favour of this law as a parliamentary group of SPS – JS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57834	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57835	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I wanted to be an authorised representative of my group for amendments and additions to the Law on the Education and Educational System, and I had no idea that I would be lucky enough to talk about the Optical Disc Act just because I thought it had nothing to do with it. Thanks to our proposings, I've been given this rare honor, to learn what optical discs are and how law and state think to edit this area. It is obvious that this area has so far been unregulated, so the state considers it to be a time for it to regulate the area of production, multiplication, transport, imports and exports of optical discs and equipment for their production. In fact, what the state wants, other than to regulate the area legally, is to put that area under its control and by wanting to reduce piracy and, on the other hand, to correct the state of the budget by putting other, fresh money into the budget, which is also not a bottomless hole, although it looks like that to all of us. The law itself is not at all controversial. What is the purpose of this law is to protect intellectual property. What the DSS thinks is disputed is to combine these two laws and find a connection that is amazing and that can really be at the level of fairy-tale awareness and talk further. So, since I wanted to talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, although as a pedagogical, I would always like this law to be called "the education and education" because I really think that schools should raise first and all their overall work and then educate, it is still called amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. So, when this law came into congregation procedure, it came in a very urgent, accelerated procedure. He arrived Friday after the working hours of parliament. No one knew about the law, that changes were being made, except for those few non-official union statements. They didn't even know the independent regulatory bodies, because we had a meeting on Monday, so we talked about the law, and then there was a proposal ahead of them, and they weren't representatives of many schools, because I spent the weekend with many representatives of primary and secondary schools in my town talking about some of the solutions that you suggested here, so they had no idea they were going to show up either. Very quickly all of this is on Parliament's agenda and I can only ask the question why, because I think this law is making a lot of serious changes and that it should therefore allow this matter to be very debated and I think, first of all, that these independent regulatory bodies that in one democratic state and how they contribute to the improvement of the law should know what is done and that they can intervene in time when such laws are concerned. I read the explanation that you wrote here, he says: "The reason for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is the fact that it introduces changes that should be applied from school 2011/2012. In the years, the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure would ensure legal assumptions of a timely change in its solutions. "You know how, he would certainly have applied himself within that time limit if you had proposed it in March. So nothing is disputed, it's just a disputed time for this law to be read here, really well, and to talk to those who are interested in education. You further say: "The government has committed that the amendment and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System will be completed and submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 31 August 2011. "Who did the government commit to? He says "representative unions in the field of education". Well, now we know the real reasons why he's in such a hurry, but still, Minister, we don't know what he came for in such a short time. We were able to make a statement about him and talk about committees who were and how interested they were to talk about it. I must remind myself that this is already becoming the minister's manners, which is the fact that two years ago, we also, in a very urgent procedure, also discussed the Education and Educational System Act on a working Saturday and Sunday in July. It's not right with different aspects. Whether the MPs will come on Saturdays and Sundays, I will always come because I think this is a very important law, but that's not the way to do it, and I don't think these things should be broken over their knees like that. I mentioned this Law on the Foundations of the 2009 Education and Education System, which was adopted in the summer of 2009, so now it's about two years as it applies and has shown a lot of serious shortcomings, and it's precisely in those areas where DSS MPs, speaking of the law, have pointed out. My colleague Poscurica mentioned that it would be interesting to look at the amendments that were then written. I fall into MPs who take great care of what is being prepared when the amendments are being made, and I have just looked at these amendments that were then on the agenda which, of course, were not adopted for a variety of reasons, but are precisely in those areas that you are now changing and I can tell you that many solutions were then on the threshold of what proved to you as a system which is unsustainable in practice. Why? Because they were written by people who were from practice. So, what was missing from the 2009 Law, that's inlife. In practice, it has shown that what sounds great in theory in practice can't work, and I can tell you that the same illness suffers from your changes and additions to the law. It would be good for you to answer why, when we compare these amendments then and what we write today, we have been thrown practically two years of all our lives into the wind because, sorry, in Serbia there is no man who is interested in education, or works in it or has children in it or, simply, in some way, is related to it, as I am now not directly in education, but education and today I am following it. As for the opinions of many experts, and I don't belong to experts, and I mean the same, the fact is that the school year was irregular. The whole second half was practically thrown into the wind, in the superseding between you and the union representatives – when it is done, whether it will make up for the lessons. A Solomonian solution has been found – each school will write a proposal to make up for lessons. I'm asking you, do you have any idea how many hours have been lost, how many of those classes have been compensated, not formally, that it's been written that it's been compensated, but how much is really compensated? I know the techniques that schools used to resort to in various ways, to write lessons, to do it with one or two students who wanted to fix grades, or to do it on a working Saturday, so it's written three, but I can tell you that students are losers of that entire circus where you played your part and how big. The best thing I've asked you is that they can tell you and give you an answer to your parents. Those parents of the students who passed the entrance exam in high school and those of the students who passed the entrance exam for colleges. They best, in pairs, can tell you how much it cost to save their children, to make up for what the system didn't get. They can best tell you how they feel about how this whole strike thing happened. How does all this work, if I can call it a job or, as you want me to say, it's over? By allegedly passing the eight-ball exam with phenomenal work results, with phenomenal results of knowledge. Speaking of which, I have to say one more fact, she's been testing an admissional classification exam that was mandatory in May with your basic school memo, and it turns out she's not mandatory. The question is, how do things change so much for a few days? So, for schools it was information that it was mandatory to implement, and in public you stated that it was not an obligation of primary schools. A comment on the assignments of the classification exam. Experts say they've been below each level. The task of the type – as if Belgrade and London were so far away and so many meters away, that the student turned it into miles, is something that is expected to do a student much lower than the eighth grade, and that when you're making questions of this type, you'll always have fantastic results that we shouldn't discuss in this way, because you and I, and all those in school know that these are the results that need to prove the regularity of the entire cycle of education. If I were right, answer me – how it is possible that students in the King who do not have even the basic working conditions have achieved that school administration has achieved the highest degree of knowledge. That's weird. According to your logic, when children don't go to school, they get the best results. I just don't understand it. I'm a school man, and I'd think the other way around, that when they go to school and take classes, they get results. The way you put it out, it turned out the other way around. Since I see another colleague has touched the forbidden subject, and I really want to touch it, because I had one research in my hands. The forbidden topic is called – private storage of students in Serbia. That's, I can say, a really forbidden topic, because it's not spoken of by the unions, neither by the government, nor by you as a resolute minister. The whole part, this area of private schoolkeeping, is respected as a partner of the state, because when you consider the results of your university entrance exam or a high school classification exam, you do not separate what they have achieved through private preparation from what they have achieved in the education system. It's just, it's impossible to separate it, but there's probably techniques, and we should probably deal with it. Do you have any idea how much money is being poured out of the citizens' pocket into the pockets of teachers who cook students? According to the research I had in my hands, it was very interesting to me, as most people deal with the story and talk about it, it is a sum of 7.5m euros a year in Serbia. According to data from those in the survey, it is about every fourth student in Serbia. It's a huge number and a huge amount. The sum is by no means buying social peace, as the state treats teachers with low wages, but it allows them to keep quiet about it, allowing them to keep quiet about them preparing students to do so. Excuse me, teachers are also people, and they would love to have normal salaries to live with, while on the other hand they spend their private time with their family and their children and invest in their children. Be safe, don't do them any favors. This topic needs to be opened. I see it opens in Europe. And it's a good thing she's opening up in Europe. Practically, these things are, obviously public and should be spoken of. I think we should talk about that thing. I agreed to say something about it, to provoke you to say something about it. Now let me say something about the law. As I understand the law, you have announced changes in several areas. The first area is to comply with other laws that have been passed in the meantime. It's okay, and there's really nothing to comment on, and there's nothing wrong with that. I see here that it is the Law on Higher Education, that the conditions are more precise for the acquisition of professional academic and scientific names and the use of abbreviations. I have to ask - what about the debt to the university that the state obviously won't pay? Some hundreds of millions of euros are mentioned. Yesterday I read an interview by the one who was talking about it, and it would be good if you said something about it. It is also a way and perhaps a time to say something about it – how did you reach an agreement with the University to keep the enrolments at the level of last year, i.e. tuition, not enrolment? Answer my question – what about those universities that disobeyed it? Another law that is also a law to be agreed with, although technique, and now I will explain that it is very abnormal – the Law on textbooks. The Law on textbooks was passed after the Law on Education and Education, and this is a system law. The law of the lower order complies with the law of the higher order, the system law, not the other way around. The law on later textbooks was natural to comply with the System Education Act. Now you're doing something the other way around, so it's a bit of a strange procedure, although I can see that there are speakers who have also been called on today, that the system laws are in line with the laws of the lower order. I'm just a pedagogue by profession, so maybe I don't understand things. The lawyers say I'm right. The question I'm also asking for an answer is the fact that you are taking this law to the student parliament to talk about the choice of textbooks. However, even when the 2009 law was passed, it was really not an appropriate term to choose textbooks, because students should talk about the quality of selected textbooks. If anyone knows what kind of textbook they're supposed to be, they're probably students. If anyone needs to talk about the quality of the textbooks, they're also students. There's no reason you shouldn't give students that right. I would like to hear your reason – why did you take that right away from the student parliaments? With another study in mind, where students talk about textbooks, where they say and how they thank the textbooks of foreign languages that are well done, they are modern, they follow trends in language learning. I think they think very maturely, and I don't think they should be taken away from them that way. Now we come to the Personal Data Protection Act. The law is also very important for the field of education. I think it's quite all right that this alignment is finally included. What I don't understand is, I have to welcome your ministry that does it this way, there are ministries that won't experience it that way. I have written amendments to many laws – the Law on Citizens' Associations, where the law gives the minors the right to join in citizens' associations, and you do not give the minors the right to talk about textbooks from which they learn. Some things don't exactly match up with each other. You're saying you've been doing this part with the P.I.'s trustee. In a lot of things, it's obvious. What is not obvious to me, it is completely unclear – the Data Protection Act itself gives the procedure and it does the right thing, gives the procedures that must be applied to protect the data. That can't possibly be your jurisdiction, Mr. Minister. The law always says – the minister of education will arrange the way it will be. The minister can't handle it, because it's not his jurisdiction. Since I'm from school, I happen to know that schools have been keeping electronic records of their students for years, and that a bunch of data, very specific data about parents, about the student family, and that very often these data are being sent to the ministry and this database is being created, which is ultimately official in this way. Only data protection from that base is official, given the fact that there have been serious incidents, I have to warn the one where the Ministry of Education of the Vojvodina device is, indeed, a major scandal about it and when that secretariat is abolished even though I think education is very important. But the man who did it, the secretary, was not punished but promoted. So it's very important that all this data on students, parents and teachers is kept, water, harmonize and send to a single base, but it's not good to ask for it at any time, because when the data is already sent, they can only be changed in some parts. There's no reason that every time something is needed, the ministry asks for it from school. When you're looking for students, a really big pile of data, and I can understand because I've been doing research on it and tracking students, files and everything else, I'm just asking you to enter into that file that you're tracking electronically and data on student advancement, that is, praises and rewards. They're nowhere to be found. You enter the system, if the child is punished, but not if it is commended and rewarded. Feel free to enter that information as well. That information's distracting the kids. We've come to the database on licensed teachers, professional associates, school directors and secretaries. You're introducing a newspaper here that the secretaries have to have a license. It's okay, I really think it's time for education and education to be completely covered by licensed people. I really think it's something that every modern system in the democratic state achieves in quality and gains quality. You here in these amendments to the law say that this information about licensed teachers won't be public. (President: 20 minutes. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57836	Thank you. The National Messenger Zlata Djeric has a word, and the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has also been reported. The mandated representative is MP Zlata Djeric, but the president of the parliamentary group, of course, has the advantage each time. People's MP Velimir Ilic still has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57837	I'm sorry, because I wanted to say a few words to the Minister. It is true that laws adopted two years ago are being amended to bring them into line with the EU. We know there's a lot of problems in education. To educate people who can't practically get a job and live, to start working. We today do not have any recognizable Serbian technology. Either they're out of date or they're completely dead and out. The way Serbia's education can't be solved in this way, which we're going to change some of the items in the law and to God's word, we've adapted to the EU. Serbia is no longer recognizable in certain professions as it used to be. It is true that we have very talented people, who unfortunately because of our businesses, who have nowhere to work and to work and to show their knowledge and calling, go out and work there as representatives of some foreign companies, foreign institutes, etc. Mr. Minister, we are now completely out of the education system that is necessary for this country to start and work. We today have thousands and thousands of experts who finish some management that is unusable. Thousands and thousands of experts who finish some colleges, high schools that can't find a job. We don't have our supervisory authorities in construction today, on the roads. We don't have construction engineers today. We have a few people today who can design bridges. They have nowhere to learn, to bake a trade as our people say. We don't, because our parent companies, who used to be giants, don't work. Let's take one "Energoproject", one "Kongrap", one "John Milutinović", one "Work", let's take "The Bridge", let's take giants who were burning and burning around the world for knowledge, calling, performing works, where they were getting international job tenders. Today you gentlemen don't have it anymore. Let's get electronics, it's all dead, it doesn't exist, it doesn't work, it's all imports from China. We do it here, we build it, we divide it. Let's take the pharmaceutical industry, it all comes from the side of the containers, it's packed, it's repacked, we've become one distribution center of Europe and the world. Here it comes from all sides of the goods, distributed, all the high technologies are either destroyed or destroyed have moved out of Serbia. Is it possible in privatization that someone buys a modern Eurocreme factory, to unmount it, to throw it out of bounds? Is it possible that someone in privatization is buying one Magnochrom that had exceptional technology and large exports unmounted equipment, exported out and left the factory torn apart? Is it possible to produce the chips that we had top-notch in Serbia because we're potato manufacturers, that someone else could destroy the same? Forest products where we were leading in Europe in exports, etc., completely destroyed, technology is being deactivated, equipment is being disarmed, equipment is disappearing, and only the walls of a factory and the poor troubled workers are being thrown out today? Is it possible that the "Freedom" factory, which was a pioneer in white technology, is completely shut down and a "burning" is brought in and is given ten thousand per employee and is mounted in the middle where there is not a single man who does this work... .. (President: National MP on the agenda for changes and addition of the system...) )......................................................................................................... It is a subject, but this is all about how the law should be adapted, so that we can have personnel who will produce the results necessary for the economy. We're now... (President: the system of education and optical discs. Please bring that argument into contact with this law. ....... I know that Mrs. Comic, what I'm saying bothers you, but I also... (President: National MP, please listen to the chairman at the time when he is working in accordance with Article 27 tries to ensure that all provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected. Vine, you can know what's bothering me, and what doesn't bother me, I'm obliged to know if you respect the provisions of article 106. You're talking about the agenda. Let me remind you that your argument is related to the agenda point. So please use your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. )......................................................................................................... .. I'm talking about the agenda, I'm talking about a law that needs to be passed that our schooling is applicable in practice, that people to Serbia are necessary, that Serbia can work, that it builds, that it works. It is a shame today that we do not have a supervisory authority to set up from Serbia today for some major facilities. It's also a shame what happened in Majdanpek recently, Mr. Minister, when you replaced the Ministry, by the decree of the director of high school because he's not a member of a particular party, he's a member of the NS. He was told he had to enter power or he'd be removed. The man's been replaced. It's a shame the collective stopped and didn't want to share the testimony with the students because it was replaced by the most popular director in town. It's a disgrace and a shame for Serbia. We can make whatever laws we want, but that Gorchilo the city loves, who's an old professor, who knows what he wants, who's raised generations, can't be trampled and who the school board has legitimately appointed. The 22-member collective voted unanimously for him, who is also a wartime military invalid, a war participant, and it is a shame that he kicks out of school because he won't sign an accession card for a party. That means we can't use laws, cosmetic laws, just seemingly show that something in school is happening, but in practice it can't live. Life is one thing, laws are another, and it can't be done like that anymore, and that's how it treats certain quality personnel that exist in this country. Primary schools and high school schools and high school institutions must be brought to a higher level. We know what the problems are. The problem is not one member of the law, the problem is the money that needs to be invested. The school needs to be invested in order to get the result of the work, you have to fight it, and the government has to support you that education has to be invested. We can't say there's money here recently, we've found a lot of money for local administrations, we're going to split double everybody, we guarantee there's money, and when it comes to education, there's no money, there's no funds. You can't create one engineer, you can make whatever law you want if you don't have the conditions to create it, to acquire a pig, to acquire a routine, etc. No matter what professor he is, how professional he is, if he doesn't have an adequate lab, the conditions for him to form, create, prepare for a job he'll be doing tomorrow, there won't be any results. So, I know it's your goodwill, and I know that your extraordinary efforts are to do something about it, but you have to have much more financial support in all of this. This is where powerful agencies are created, passing a lot of laws that constantly expand some mechanisms with some other agencies, controls, etc. Here they need funds for what they're going to do tomorrow. One Tesla here couldn't produce a result if he didn't have anything to do with it, he had to go outside and get what he wanted. We today have thousands of young experts who are in Serbia and are simply showing as young people, but they have to go outside to achieve what they want, because they can't accomplish here, ordered in small areas. We have extra talent, but the basic problem with him is that the school can't be heated, the classroom is cold, they're dealing with the team, instead of dealing with equipment, technology, etc. So, Mr. Minister, you have to do a lot of work on this and make sure that much more resources are defined, that a lot of personnel are prepared for a practical simple application of production. We can't go to Italy and buy one technology and say, here's everything we got from the side. What are our engineers, our projectors doing, what are our college educational institutions doing preparing certain personnel? Nothing. It all comes to the screw industry, that's what we're becoming. We were extremely in energy, we made the biggest dams in the world, we participated in many technologies in construction, which were our own. We have our systems, we have our bridge-building system, and it's the famous Jell-O system that's been applied, one of the first in the world. What happened? We lost all that today. Today some of us come here to build us a bridge, a bridge on Ada, to make us others. We've completely suppressed our systems, kicked out, they may have been overcome, not completed, etc. So, you have to work on that, and I expect you to do something about this shift, and not just cosmetically, we're going to take one law that was passed two years ago, and now we're going to change two, three members, so we're going to say, here it's going to be better, we're going to calm down some people, and we're going to literally create that something is happening in education, and there's actually no quality education without investment. There's no quality science without big investments in all this. That's why we all have to fight it. It's the most expensive thing to buy from the outside, import. Why do we have this much import? Because we don't have our own. We don't have anything almost our own right now in production. We buy everything on the side. Please, where are those technologies we used to have? We don't have anything. We've made the best quality, ministers, droughts in the world. I remember perfectly, as an engineer, we were the largest exporters in Europe. Now we don't have any dryers. No one in Serbia knows how to build a vacuum drought. We don't. No educational institution is involved in the team, engineers, experts and others. We were pioneers in the construction of furnaces, high furnaces, furnaces for the brick industry, furnaces for construction, and that was gone. We're importing that now. Let's import everything. I don't know if there's a branch that's not tied to imports from the outside. That's why we need to do something right now, and there's a big job ahead of you. To do so as a minister, to restart some mechanisms, to educate people in Serbia who will bring about the development of this country, the technological development of this country, which will find application and which will apply their knowledge in practice and thus employ many citizens. We can't, because we're simply overcome during sanctions, lag behind. People in the world have gone a lot ahead of us, and now we're not investing anything, but we've adapted and we've imported everything and everything, although it's a very bad quality, and it costs us as a country. So I ask you to work on it, not to do such things, and that people are being punished in a party way, that people are being partyed to be party universities, that deans, rectors, etc., but that it is. You haven't worked on it, but others have worked on it, and others have influenced and interfered with it, and they find someone in the ministry, call him, influence him, pressure, and change. So please, as one serious man we expect you to do a lot of work on and slowly put this into order. You've got a big job ahead of you. Don't think that with two, three members to change the law, we'll say, here we have adapted to the EU, the job is done, everything will come from that EU. We'll sit here and just import and import and fire our people every day. We must also work to have our identity in production, to have our products and our brand and to know in the world that Serbia knows how to process what it produces and what it has quality wood, mushrooms and other things, rather than to export everything as raw materials. Raw materials don't make you live. The country's going down. All final products we return. It's impossible that we don't know how to make juice, it's impossible that someone bought giant Serbians and completely shut them down and destroyed them, opened the outside markets that put everything and everything in the Serbian market here. It is impossible for Serbia to know how to process meat. It can't be that the great giants who processed the dry-meat products, when we had extraordinary experts and technologies, as it was in Kikinda, in Shid, Sremska Mitrovica, that I don't count anymore, today it's all gone. We're importing it from the outside. It is impossible for all of us, Matijević, and all of Serbia's processing and production has stopped. We've known we've been doing this for years. It's all stopped. Therefore, you are working on it if you think Serbia is self-starting. The key to Serbia's start, Serbia's development is with you, we used to work in construction, construction system, when no one in the environment works. Now we're importing everything from the outside. We don't have any construction firms doing this. When we did that, no one did. Our Bridge was a pioneer building bridges in Europe and the world. We got all the jobs in Africa and our Energy Project was the master in certain areas, and today they're businesses. Our team was the main firm in its branch. Today, these are decomposed companies, who have come to mind to come and buy for small money and completely destroy something that has been for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57838	Seventeen minutes used since the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57839	Mr. Ilic, thank you for these words regarding the importance of education. I share this opinion with you that education is the key resource of Serbia and I want to tell you that this Government of the Republic of Serbia and we in the ministry are trying to really solve the problems that we have encountered, change the system from within, not to cause social earthquakes and try to step up with the world in all aspects of this problem. I don't want to talk about government, one or the other or the third or the fifth. I just want to say that compared to what you said, I could say that I share a part of the attitudes, only probably the causes of explaining these phenomena in me are completely different from you. The function of education is to function in the development of the Republic of Serbia, but education needs to be invested, in different ways to work to raise its system. There is no, otherwise, as a country in transition, I have to tell you something that is part of the world's experience, that there are no countries in transition or an education system that can respond to market needs, because countries in transition are not defined. We've had two concepts in the past two decades related to privatisation. One concept, which was, that the owners of the majority package of actions could and should be workers and that concept was in force for a certain time, and then the state, so I'm saying ultimately, as I would say, without the latest party intentions, or ideological, state, I'll always use the term state, the state has changed the concept. Before that, all those workers who became the owners of the majority part of the Hemofarm stock, at the Apatino brewery, in, I don't think, "Metalac" from Gornji Milanovac, "Soko stork", or any other factory, I didn't notice them complaining. They didn't complain about that fact. Then the state changed the concept. She felt that she could manage these resources better, and then we objectively privatised businesses in a way that later proved to be bad in practice. There has been no opening of new jobs and when you do not have young people to offer new jobs, logically, the consequence is that we have extra professional staff compared to what the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia are. The relationship between the economy and the company is lost. Earlier, companies, especially the colleges of natural sciences, and how they worked together on joint projects, there was this symbiosis. In practice, everything that was part of the theory, part of the curricula and the program was checked, and then no wonder we had great experts. Not only did change take place in Serbia, but globally, Serbia is part of global change on a global scale, and we are now objectively, as the Government, trying to, I tell you, to deal positively with what we found negatively and to take some steps to make it better. Personally, I think that's where some positive steps are being taken. In 2006, we joined the creation, to say, of this European space of higher education and now in 2011 it is already seen that certain universities, which have their own plan and programmes, otherwise programmes are accredited in time of five years, yes and that there are results that we can boast about, which says that in certain universities and how this accumulated knowledge is used. Here, I'll mention to you the students of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, who seem to be the first place in the international competition on the use of solar energy, related to mobile telephony, along with the engineers. Our law school students won first place in an international competition in Oxford, in the field of media law. Faculty of Organizational Sciences students represented Europe, so they beat Europe in Europe, but took third place in the project "How to solve the problem of irrigation areas where there is not enough water and with as little money as possible". Students of the Architectural Faculty, I think, six months ago in an international competition, also won a prominent post. The engineers, the builders, mean it's slowly coming back, but it's not possible to achieve such good results overnight. We need a better economy to have a bigger investment. I can also ask a question, in my opinion, a very logical question – why has it not been invested in the previous years? Not only has it not been invested, but many debts have been left to universities on account of not paying material costs and that it will be settled in itself. He won't. The state should take care of the state colleges, if it thinks it needs them, and we think it is, and that's why we're trying to worry as much as we can. Until we have a better economy, a healthier economy, we cannot expect this number of students to be hired. But here, these young students who showed their results, we'll also see how the companies you've been talking about will react to their potential. Well, of course, I know as well as you, Bridge Building, PIM, Energy Project, Partizan Way and other enterprises were someone who promoted politics and education and quality, or the state and education and quality, but it happened in the privatisation that these companies lost some of their inner substance and then came into the situation they came into. We have a lot to do. We're trying, we know that one law can't change much, especially considering it takes a few years from the start of law enforcement to just see the first effects. But this government is really working too hard on education. The best evidence is, after all, if you want and what we're talking about, during this assembly of education. We passed three laws, four laws, this is an amendment and an addition to one, we discussed amendments and additions to the higher education law adopted by the previous government in 2005, we will discuss some other laws in the fall. So, the very fact that we are doing so much legislative work at the time of this government's term is saying something about this government, but, God, it's also talking about the previous one. Why did these issues not appear on the agenda of a previous government? There was no hearing, no desire, or no working on it. You know, it's the easiest thing to criticize. The most difficult thing is to find practical solutions, but I'm looking at this question of yours from the point of view that you too have a desire to find a solution. It doesn't get us anything if we blame each other for a while ago. The point is whether we can create a system of education that will function in Serbia's development. We try for such an education system, which we don't say is ideal, or that everything is honey and milk. That's why we change the law when we find out that something doesn't work in practice. We passed this law two years ago and now we are making appropriate changes, because the practice of some solutions has been denied. They're not as good as we thought, but where and where they're far from it, that they're bad and they're bad, they're not in all aspects of what we wanted. It doesn't make sense to expect that at a time when there isn't enough resources, there are more significant allocations. You know that even local self-governments do a lot to help schools and these questions that you mentioned belong to local self-government. I expect local self-governments with a higher amount of money, that they will get even more obligations, whether it's education, health care, culture or some other areas, because the competences of local self-government are large, they don't have the money for all this, and it's logical that the state from the point of view of the state must transfer funds. The municipalities have 39 responsibilities, cities two or three more, and the City of Belgrade is four more and that is a very large number of responsibilities compared to the funds they have. Unfortunately, again, some will pay schools sometimes, whether it's heating, whether it's material maintenance funds, whether it's about carrying students, some other things that are part of the municipality's jurisdiction. I know many cities are trying, and I know how they're trying to help enlighten, because they think it's important. If education does not become for all of us, the common, first value of the state, it will objectively be no more money, no matter what authority is and who is the opposition. I think we're on our way. And the fact that we talk so much about education in itself has its own meaning. In the end, since we're going to discuss the details of this law, I want to tell you, you may not know, so I'd like to say to you and the public, that case you mentioned in Majdanpek, that's the case of a classic conflict of interest, Mr. Director is also the president of the municipality. So he can't be the director and president of the municipality. Either one or the other. He resigned, which he later withdrew. So it's either one or the other. That's why we at the ministry reacted, based on a report from an educational inspection. So it's not about the police, it's just that the gentleman has to determine whether he wants to be the president of the municipality or whether he wants to be the director. And he didn't want to be defined, so he resigned, which he later withdrew at the assembly session of the municipality he ran. That's the information I have and I'm behind it. If necessary, I'll get you more detailed information and I'll introduce you to it during today or tomorrow or when we discuss the amendments. There's nothing to hide. The public is familiar with that and you are on your side. I'll try to deliver more information. Because there may be some other interest at the level of local self-government. Why not, that's legitimate. It's just that the point is whether it's done in accordance with the law or not. You can't do both. That's all the story, Mr. Ilic, about Majdanpek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57840	Thank you. Right on the line, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57841	You've raised the question, but let's be principled. If someone can't be a director and be a councilman, then someone can't be an MP and be a mayor. So, let's be principled and forgive it to the end. And not now—someone can, some can't. We're gonna change someone and we're gonna tell somebody it doesn't matter. I have another objection to your exposure. Mr. Minister, it is not encouraging for the development and employment of young and professional people if you in the current government stimulate a stranger who comes with some technologies that are completely overcome and you give him 10 000 euros per employee, where he brings his technology, his engineering chamber, his management people and sets us as a simple physical workforce that only 17 thousand dinars work. And we're stimulating him by an employee of 10,000 euros. Our home when it opens, or our domestic company, or those companies that you listed, which are successful companies and which are stock companies, which was the first model for me and for me a much better model, in practice a better model, they get nothing. They are being robbed daily by various obligations, by increasing various taxis, incomes, taxes, excises, etc., in order to create a fund to give this stranger who is coming and who is going to be here for several years and to pick up and leave when labour value increases.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57842	Thank you. The word is Mrs Jocic Radica, an authorised representative of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57843	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was brought in August 2009, has just shown many of the shortcomings that the SRS parliamentary group has been pointing to at the time. After two years of underage, we are facing changes and additions to this very important law, in which only some solutions have been improved. It was carried out, as the minister himself said in the opening statement, to comply with laws that were passed in the meantime with the Ministry Act. On the Education Committee yesterday, the minister stressed that the goal of these changes is to raise the level of education and address the problems identified after nearly two years of the adoption of the law. Unfortunately, I can't before I move on to concrete things from the law that I don't stress something that I hope everyone will agree on, which is that the level of education, regardless of all the draft laws, is difficult to raise if education is not much better reflected in that most significant law, which is the Budget Law. It is true that it is not all about money, but without more serious investment in education it will be extremely difficult to raise the level of education. If every year, realistically in the budget for education finds less and less money and the percentage of wages and in this small amount of money is constantly growing, the situation will be actually getting worse. As long as over the year we cut the money for, for example, basic education to increase the number of students in the budget, or reduce for secondary education money to finance doctoral studies, there's nothing to raise the level of education. I still have one sentence in my ears spoken by the Minister at the Education Committee on February 10, 2011, at the time of the strike, when he said, "As the salaries were better, other things were not even talked about. No one mentioned the strategy." As far as the strategy is concerned, I think the government is currently thinking only about how to stay until the next election, so it is only then that it plans that when it wins the same set again, as Mirko Cvetkovic said yesterday, it is only then that it seriously tackles the education strategy. As one of the most important things, this bill relatively mentions itself, and I would stress the regulation of closer regulation of adult education and all issues of importance for this segment of education. For some time now, a special law on adult education has been mentioned, for now only as a draft, although yesterday we heard that making is near the end. I think it is necessary for this bill to be found in the process as soon as possible and, of course, to be applied, hopefully, to reduce the extremely high percentage of illiterate people and people who have not completed even primary school in Serbia. It is a good thing that Article 2 of this proposal of the law has led to some misunderstandings about the acquisition of professional, academic and scientific names, because many were not clear about what the term graduated or what the master means, although for example, many are not clear now that the graduate, for example, an Englishman, will not be able to work. to teach English at school, he already needs the name master, i.e. 300 points, i.e. Second degree academic studies. And he should be even with colleagues who are already working and who are just graduated. The SRS parliamentary group intervened with the amendments to Article 4. The bill is because we believe that too much data is required for the database and the unique information system of education, and we have already witnessed various abuses, regardless of the Personality Data Protection Act and other laws that must be respected. We also intervened in the same article with an amendment regarding the fact that the educational role of the education and education system is not to be left out. We will discuss this in more detail in the discussion of the amendments because, as most of you have probably noticed, in the whole of the law, we are much more concerned with education, with measures to ensure discipline, discipline and so on, so that we believe that in no member of the law education as one of the basic roles should be left out. We also asked the amendment to specify the deadline for updating the data, because if the data is not entered in time, there may be some problems at the time, for example, of issuing public documents issued by institutions and the like. The SRS also believes, in connection with the proposed changes in the composition of the school boards, that the existing solution was better, i.e. that it is sufficient for the local self-government unit assembly to appoint at least one social partner, without determining which area the social partner is from. The proposal of all three representatives of local self-government from social partners such as their number is large and in the advice for professional education and adult education, we believe that it is not necessary and that it may create a space for abuse, which we will discuss more in detail. Since I used to work as a teacher in high school, and I work at a White Palance elementary school right now, and I'm a personal witness that justification or justification is something that keeps causing problems, we think it's a good thing that the number is so-called. Unjustified absences are reduced from 35 to 25, with parents informed already after 15 absences. But we asked for an amendment to strengthen the obligation of students and parents to justify their absences within 15 days. Otherwise, we think of words such as: timely, exceptional, etc. The laws need to be avoided. Also, we believe that it is good that these changes are allowed to sanction and only the unwarranted absence of students, unrelated to other violations of duties and obligations of students. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the proposed legislative solution, which provides that only a parent should be informed when conducting the educational and disciplinary process. We believe that the parents of the students must be involved in such procedures, which is otherwise provided for in Article 3 of the current law, which regulates the general principles of education and education systems and reads: "The education and education system in its organisations and contents provides for" and point 1) "effective co-operation with the family, including parents, or guardians, for the successful achievement of the asked questions of education and education", as well as in Article 113 of the same law, which says: "With a student who commits a violation of the rules of conduct or does not adhere to the decisions of the school directors and bodies, unwarrantedly falls from the course of five classes, i.e. who, by his behaviour, endangers others in the exercise of their rights, the school is obliged to, with the participation of parents, or guardians of the students, to strengthen the educational work of activities within the departmental community, professional work of the departmental authority, pedagogogogogics, psychologists, psychologists, as well as those who are required to conduct health care with the institutions." The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group believes that predicting the transfer of pupils, especially primary schools, from one to the next, as an educational disciplinary measure, is not the most comprehensive solution. We believe that primary schools are sufficiently equipped with professional associates, educators, psychologists, that, in accordance with the law, they can form different expert teams to monitor the behaviour of students and effects of educational and disciplinary procedures, which we have also asked for by amendment and that the measure of transfer to another school is really not something that would give the expected results. I would remind myself that this measure would cause, for example, additional problems and the cost of student travel, because there is only one primary school in many smaller environments. Let's say, in the White Palanca, the first one is ten kilometers - in the Red River. The expenses of monthly tickets and now are a problem for local self-government, and in this case would be an additional problem. This kind of educational discipline may be applicable to high school students, and even if applied to students from fifth to eighth grade, we have asked for an amendment to obtain the consent of a teacher's higher school in which the student is transferred, because the term "acquirement of the school" can mean only the consent of the director, and such troublesome students can cause labour disturbances in smaller schools, even in all departments from fifth to eighth, because they usually have only one. We have also submitted amendments to Article 21. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which was intervened by the Government in Article 130 of the applicable Law, which relates to admission to labour on the basis of competition. Amendments require that the director of the institution in the decision-making process on the selection of teachers, educators and expert associates conduct a narrow selection of candidates who point to a previous examination of psychophysical capacity, for working with children and students, who perform the competent employment services, using standardised procedures. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group felt that the existing solution was better, as it predicted that we were on a psychophysical test to work with children and students, all candidates who applied for employment and met the conditions of the competition. It is inadmissible that the Government, in its argument, stated that the practice imposed this amendment as necessary, for the reason that the competent employment services did not have sufficient capacity to ensure that the obligations prescribed by this law were carried out within the time limits set. It's the same government that with two members of the law prescribes the employment of hundreds, even thousands of activists of some parties, say, in youth offices and the like. The services responsible for checking psychophysical abilities must have sufficient capacity. That's one thing. Secondly, candidates who have once been on a psychophysical test of that certificate, credentials or whatever is already being betrayed may be subject to a certain period of time. Personally, I think that even everyone in education who works with children and students should, after a certain period, re-check their psychophysical abilities. I'm going first. After five years in the Assembly I have to go back to school, the question is how much I'm going to be able to work with kids and students. We have intervened with the amendment and in Article 17. The amendments and additions to item 3 relating to the reduction of time for the initiation of the educational and disciplinary procedure from 60 days to 30 days, since we believe that such a procedure must be effective, in order for the proposed solutions to be delivered as soon as possible, as we have seen that the intensity of the proposal is also in the part of the bill concerning the reduction of the conduct of the disciplinary procedure against employees, which provides for a shorter period of time in which the initiation and conduct of the procedure is outdated. We have also tabled an amendment to the proposed amendments to Article 131 of the applicable law governing the takeover of employees. It is clear to us that it is much more feasible and in practice easier to apply the mutual takeover of workers in a way that is predicted by changes, meaning, without making a list for employees of school institutions. In addition to all rationality, we believe that such a solution leads to certain privatisation of schools and we think that a more comprehensive solution is valid, because it provides equality for all workers who have remained unallocated in this and such delicate situation and prevents or at least hinders any abuse. We have not submitted an amendment to Article 24 of the amendment, which continues to allow school, i.e. The director that even six classes of regular teaching can be awarded weekly to a teacher, which would be said through norm, if he cannot provide a professional face, although we are aware that it is very much, especially if it is, for example, math classes, where written tasks, reviewing and such. We are also aware of the very difficult situation in schools, for example, regarding some of the professional classes in high schools. We are aware that sometimes it is very difficult to provide a professional frame, especially in small areas, but we believe that this is really a solution that should only be applied in extreme need and for a shorter period of time, but not for the whole school year. Of course, it is a thoughtless argument yesterday on the Committee - that it avoids paying taxes and contributing to a new worker, with an unemployment rate of over 22%. I think this is exactly the kind of explanation that needs to be avoided. So much for now. It would just point out that at today's session, as many times so far, we are considering the practice of the ruling majority to bring together the debate of several laws, including today, in addition to the proposal for a law on the foundations of systems and education, for the first time, a new proposal for the Law on Optical Disks, for which, too, as a representative of the government, is defined by Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science. As for many so far, Serbia has agreed to this law as one of the conditions for obtaining a bid for membership in the European Union, while also putting forward an attempt to contribute to legal certainty in the field of intellectual property protection and reducing the scope of piracy, as well as to prevent illegal production of optical discs, avoiding paying taxes representing public income. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and on the Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs of the Serbian Radical Party Group, a number of amendments have been submitted, and we hope for a constructive debate both in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57844	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57845	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the mandated representatives of the parliamentary groups have expressed their views on these two laws, allow me to try in a few words to answer a part of the questions they asked during the debate. Since there has been more discussion about amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System than the Law on Optical Discs, I am counting on us to discuss this law in particular, let me concentrate on the issue of education. The government hasn't been hiding why they're asking for an emergency procedure for this law. There are two reasons: the school year really starts on September 1st, if you didn't know; second, a deal with the unions. You MPs will probably go on a short vacation. It wouldn't be good for you or for me or for the education that this law isn't on the agenda until September 1st. Whether it will be today, 11, 18 or 25. It is not the Minister or the Government or only the Minister and Government, but also the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way it works. It's better to find out today, to discuss it or next week, I didn't care, but the point was that these were two really important reasons and we couldn't have referred to it before, because we had talks with the unions, we had a number of meetings with them, which we worked with at the ministry, we had our working groups involved and representatives of the representative unions, and we talked to them about the content of these solutions. We have reason to believe the accuracy of the data, because it's about people who are directly out of practice. It is also evident today that those who are from practice in a different way are talking about the education system in relation to others, who perhaps experience these problems that we are practically facing more in principle. Besides, when the amendments are on the agenda, we'll discuss individual solutions. That's why this law goes according to emergency procedures. I'm sorry Mr. Pastor isn't here. We will not go below the level of the solution established by the National Minority Council Act. There's no need for fear from his side. We'll see about those amendments. I think we'll find common ground. When it comes to data gatherings, I must tell you that we have made these provisions of the Law together with the Commissioner for Information. He appreciated that these were data that could be used when education policies were created, without questioning the individuals on which the data was collected, just being taught some of the negative examples that were happening, so we made this part of the law together with him. The rest of what we do, although the minister is authorized, don't have any doubt, everything I do about data collection, and it's about the Personal Protection Act, of course I'll be doing it with the Information Commissioner. As far as school administrations are concerned, we have 29 districts in Serbia, 17 school administrations. It is not a lonely case that several cities do not have or share a common school administration, whether it is about Subotica and Sombor, about North-Bath and West-Bath County, about Smederev and Pozarevec, about Šapac and Valjev, about Zajecar and Bor, there are many such solutions and that is something that exists from earlier, so that the issue of opening new school administrations as far as we are concerned is not on the agenda. As for the questions asked by a colleague, Rangelovic, regarding the making of textbooks, we have very precisely arranged the Law on textbooks. The textbook is written by professional people, their handwriting, the text of this textbook examined by expert committees in the office, gave their opinion, it goes to the National Educational Council, the National Educational Council can, if it is a negative opinion that it forwards to the author and publisher, they can hire an independent expert commission that gives its expert opinion. The text is then discussed again at the National Educational Council and the final decision is the minister's decision. The minister in no way, nor any individual, can affect the content of the law. Otherwise, it's not a simple question at all, believe me. Three years ago, I was at the Council of Europe with my fellow State Secretarys and discussed a system of values in education in the countries of the Council of Europe, so I just talked to a man who has only been dealing with the issue of textbooks for the past 20 years. I asked a logical question for me, just as you wanted me to break into the essence of things, asking questions, so I said, today, do you say, between Germany and France, as a great force in European spaces, sometimes an enemy, and today, a friend, there is agreement about historical events that were part of a common history, and where they were on opposite sides? He told me – of course not, but it is the essence of the textbooks to create an opportunity for both sides to create an opportunity to show a certain historical event in a way that it considers true. History is not written by politicians, nor should they bother to write it and hardly any individual can solve the question of history, especially in our spaces, such as the space of Southeast Europe or the Balkans, where each of us probably has its own truth about events that are part of our recent or ancient past. That's why historians are historians, they use more documents, so they present it all to the public, so they give people the opportunity to draw their own conclusions about it. I've already said the textbooks are written, based on plans and programs and the point is that these things aren't left to any individual. Educational standards are known, what a child needs to know from the class that ends, and I told you what the procedure is for making textbooks, so there shouldn't be any fear that any individual can do something on their own. There is one thesis here that is mentioned, which is very interesting – are we avoiding talking about the state of education, and I personally don't think we are avoiding it, because the fact that in the last three years, five or six times in this esteemed home, we are talking about education and all aspects. Is there a question of private lessons? We're also talking about it, there's only one little logical inconsistencies. If we are a poor country, and the representatives of the opposition, in fact and practice and data show that a large part of the population has objective problems from the perspectives of the individual and the like, then it is logical to assume that there is no money for those additional hours, for payment. Then who pays? The one with the money. What's the score? Independent of this year and what happened, I'll tell you the data for last year, 85% of the students wrote one of their first three wishes. However, it cannot be ignored that they show an absolutely certain level of knowledge. As for the results this year, you can conclude two things – either the children really learned or the tasks were easy. It's both possible. The assignments were made by competent people at the Bureau and no one from the profession asked if the tasks were simple. The students were the ones who were the ones who evaluated the value of the assignment, because they needed to find solutions for these tasks. I'll just remind you that for the first time this year, 25% of the assignments were unknown. In earlier years, all tasks were known in advance, four or five months, so the results were worse. Why did no one then ask the question? How could we give them the task six months before, and the tasks are worse? Why? Now 25% of the tasks have been new, and 25% have been changed, so I can say the same – or the students have studied, and I want to believe that they have learned and not only the King, the King is mentioned, the same result is Novi Pazar, but it has Belgrade. These are the first three school administrations on average for small graduations, math and high school. Some have taken the passing of a small graduation seriously, and it is obvious that the one in control, I say, had a small graduation and how it made sense, because after that control, there was anxiety and students, and I have to say both parents and teachers – how to organize and similar, and parents and students related to the outcome. They had the opportunity to pass that little prom test, over 98% of them, didn't come out just that day they weren't at school, because they might have had early commitments, so they did it next Saturday, so it proved very good. Of course I'd like to be a minister, and I suppose all of you who talk about education really do see an honest intention on your part to increase education funds. But I must tell you that we have found a very difficult situation in the education system. It's not possible to change that overnight. There's a large number of objects, a large number of employees. This is one irrationality, without talking about outcomes – poor results in certain competitions, checking knowledge, especially international ones. On the other hand, we have great individuals who promote the education system and the state, achieve extra-series results, and then the question is how to raise the education level and the quality of the entire system, to try to reach these first ones, without these first being the average of the majority. It's not simple at all or possible to do it overnight. I'm telling you, we've found a difficult situation. We've been downgraded by the department because of the demographic situation. It's Serbian cancer. The demographic situation is very bad. Statistics department estimates, respected colleagues and colleagues say that in 2052, you will have 600,000 citizens in Serbia. I don't know who mentioned it, the number of children for 2007 and 2008, which means in six, seven years, we'll have as many champions as 80,000, as we had two, three years ago. We have a demographic situation and we have to adapt the school's education system to that, so that, together with local self-government, we can see what we can finance, what local self-government can do, so that children can create an opportunity for education and not deny it to anyone. We're an extraordinary number of departments, believe it or not, for 150 over the past two years, and it almost didn't even feel, which means there's a lot of empty walk in the education system, which I'm not saying there might not be any today, but if you cut it by so much, so there's no problem, then you see that there's actually one irrationality. I've talked to the IMF representatives about this education system, and I have no reason not to tell you, with Mr. Jager and the others. The conversation lasted two hours and a few hours. After that, we expressed the satisfaction of meeting them, what we found, what we did, and what we planned. We'll bring strategy by the end of the year. The operative colleague, Professor Mitrovic, and co-worker Kovac-Cerovic, are in charge of it as state secretaries. They're running it, and it's already done. We've secured the funds. We will have an educational strategy for the first time in this multi-party Serbia for both pre-school and secondary education and art schools and higher schools of vocational studies for both primary and master studies. We will make one education strategy and, according to our assessment, it will be finished by the end of October of the month and I would like it to be the basis, if there are no legal assumptions about it, I would very much like to ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we have some public reading or something like that, that all MPs of the National Assembly are familiar with that document, not just the parent board, but the others, so whoever wants to give their opinion, because it is not a matter of any government, it is a matter of the state. Governments pass and ministers change, it should be a document that lasts and should be the basis for all of us to work in the future. There are many questions that have been asked and are concrete. We'll talk about them when the amendments are on the agenda. I'm telling you right now, you've seen it in the previous years, any amendment to be quality, as minister, I'm prepared to accept it. I have no prejudice regarding the parliamentary group, who is proposing, the point is to improve the law. We've gone into changes and additions to the system's founding laws just because we've noticed that some things aren't good or haven't caused the effect we expected. Those who were right, certainly respect them. We had a truly noble intention to create an atmosphere where we learn, but apparently one part of the students saw our parliamentary solution as an opportunity, but probably with the silent or direct consent of their parents that they could not come to school and that they could not bear the consequences of it or have any obligation. We've now created one gradual. After 15 hours, I do not justify calling parents, being able to be in the presence of parents and guardians, that everyone is engaged in it and having reasonable and how they remain. The parents will justify the other children, but I'm talking about those unwarranted classes and there's a possibility of a certain punishment, but there's a possibility of repairing that negative assessment from the same authority that imposed the sentence. The point here is to solve the problems that have arisen in practice. Since we've spoken to the unions, I must tell you, these are the problems that have been identified in practice. We think these are solutions that things can change. I'd like it to be that way. We'll see when the rule comes and the law whether there are better solutions than these. The bottom line is that there are a large number of users of the education system, about one million and two hundred thousand preschoolers, which are founders, high school students, students and over 150,000 employees and a huge budget, but the problem is that the structure of that budget is such that the largest part of the salary, over 90% of the budget structure, is spent on employees' salaries, and then there is no money. Of course, investment is needed, but from government to government, rather than strategic investment that will not last from one government to one government, but which will be the policy of the Serbian state. Someone said, and she's right, it's not all about money, but money is important. Simply, in some other situations, there is no money that shows that a solution can be found. With a little money, we've fixed the siats of schools, homes made, finished. We've made some new schools together with the EIB. We're investing in education. I'm sorry that my colleague Rangelovic is not here, but in Nis for the first time in 30 years, believe it or not, we started building a dormitory. We've been building one dormitory, Svetozar Markovic High School, and we're finishing another school. They haven't had and I ask one logical question for myself and for others in the last 30 years – why not? What did the government do to some previous or ministry, why didn't they do it? Wasn't there any money? The point is whether education had meaning to what money was spent on. You're right, I said that on the Board of Education, when the salaries were good, it wasn't taken care of. It's not just good pay education, they're supposed to be a successful teacher's work, and they're important to each teacher's status. It is important that education in the value system comes first. The question arises why we haven't invested as many years behind us, when maybe there was more money than there is now. It can't be expected since 2008, when the global crisis has occurred and when you see what the consequences are, and we're successfully struggling with it, at least me. I'm fully convinced as a member of the government that we can replace anything that hasn't happened in years or decades. Last year we made 13 new schools. A few decades before that, a new school wasn't built. We're still going to work. We're trying to solve a dozen problems. I'm not saying we do it all the way we want to, but we're ready and open to criticism and we're ready to co-operate. Whatever amendment is good, we'll accept it. It is our desire to make a law that will work and will help children to show what they know, to devote themselves to learning, to parents to know how to help their children to get a better result and employees to do their basic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57846	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive explanation. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96, Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, New Serbia, SPS-JS, DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. The first on the list of registered MPs is Mr Bojan Djuric, from the LDP parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57847	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to see you, we started talking about this seven days ago, when you were one of the regulars, those who were not unjustly left behind, when we were already in those absences that you were trying to bring into line with this law, when you were one of only two regular ministers from the government of the last Thursday, you announced, to me, very ambitious this debate that will follow today and a serious discussion about the situation in education in Serbia. This conversation, at least in the afternoon, is in some way serious, regardless of the relatively small number of MEPs in the O.R. I'm not sure the extent of the legal changes you're proposing is so comprehensive and so ambitious, no matter how much of them or at least part of them for LDP are not controversial. It's undeniable to solve those problems that you've highlighted here. In some segments, we still think in too conservative a way. We've submitted some amendments. I believe that we will be able to discuss this in the coming days and that some amendments may be accepted, but as you have rightly noticed, this is a principle debate, as some countries say - the first principle reading. Here, above all, there should be talk of politics, education policy, what in this political sense you as a representative of the ruling coalition or of your party or representatives of the parties in parliament, primarily of opposition, propose as a possible solution. You have also raised several important issues in this answer that you have given to the presentation of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. I think that's interesting to talk about. First, with the observation that you do not want to go back to the previous government, you did mention what you found and what situation you found in your ministry, and in the education sector, and when it comes to budget levels, the funds that are intended, as well as all other things. Politicians make political decisions, and I assume they make them in relation to some of the priorities they have. When you entered this government, it seems to me that tomorrow is exactly three years since this government was formed, yet you have chosen some priorities. Your party's request, your coalition was directed towards one other part of the budget. With one decision, you decided to raise your pensions, I think, by 10%, and that went about 500m euros. You could have made a different decision, so to speak, to raise the budget of the Ministry of Education. I don't dispute your rights to make this decision. For your own reasons, coalition reasons, the need to make such a government has been defined for such a solution. These numbers are very interesting today. The budget of the Ministry of Education is between 115 billion and 120 billion dinars. Right? It's only half the amount that is allocated every year for that pension fund subsidy. Mr. Peric is in the O.R., and I hope that at least this time he won't take this as a generational issue, as a question of the need of LDP to always and at any cost deplete with the representatives of the party they are trying to represent as an attack on the entire pension population. I don't think it's a good ratio of numbers, especially in a society that's in this state and given all the demographic and other problems they've mentioned themselves. I don't think, in fact, I think that 10% raise didn't go to the quality of the lives of the pensioners themselves. Most pensioners put it into their children or those who are users of this law. So it all comes down to the same thing in the end, regardless of the amount of 1,000 or 1,500 dinars, as you say. A little more politics. Here you have spoken, or in some way answered the question that Professor Rangelovic raised, and it concerns textbooks and your roles in the process of approving textbooks and deciding on it. You know what, no matter what these formal provisions, you're like, since you're the vice president of the SPS, you still have a special responsibility in this process. Not because in public it's justified or not, it's a picture of you belonging to, in order to say "hard shitheads" or "hard power" in the SPS. I don't talk about it at all, whether it's justified or not. But if it is in a responsible place or in the position of the Director of the Institute for the Advancement of Education of Persons who, in one way or another, is related to your party or at least in the history of your party in the previous 20 or 25 years, although it has acted this way towards the textbook proposed by Professor and former Ambassador Simic, then I think you have a special responsibility to answer these questions. Especially because of what you were saying, let's say, a situation in Nis where 30 years of not building a dormitory, if I understood correctly. You know what, that still has something to do with the late '80s. There was no dormitory then. It went to Gazimestan, then to Usce, so in 2008, 21 February schools didn't work all day, so students and educators would come to the rally Kosovo is Serbia. I see you disagree, but there is a formal decision by Mr. Lonchar who has made such a decision. On that day, pupils of primary, secondary schools and educational workers, from the Ministry of Education, were invited to a rally, which turned Kosovo's defence into stealing in Belgrade's locals and burning down an embassy. As a result, there are serious problems in the education system today. Violence at school, discrimination at school, and such lack of discipline at school has its own cause, among other things, in such political behavior. Not only in the oscillation of children, in their laziness or need to in every way, in these adolescent years fight against one or another type of authority. You have to admit that. Generally, I think it's one of the biggest delusions of this country that there's not enough money in it, but there's phenomenal personnel. Mr. Ilic talked about it in part. Such a situation is only partly true for some professions. A lot has been lost in the past 20 or 25 years. I've got some serious research ahead of me. Don't doubt the relevance of the agency that did it. It was done by the largest Serbian public opinion research agency Ipsus Strategic Marketing, the same one whose results you watch or analyze when discussing whether local and parliamentary elections should be held in the same period, or separately, which you have been particularly concerned with these days. Those results are devastating. They include the overall population of Serbia. Not only 800, 900,000 people, young people who are practically in the process of primary and secondary education. The questions are from different areas. I chose national and general history, not to be accused of just not knowing these, as I would say, mundial or globalistic things. For example, 45% of Serbian citizens do not know what event marks the border between the old era and the new era. When asked -- who was Martin Luther, 42% of citizens say -- the leader of the black movement in the United States, not the protenstantist driver. 25% of Serbian citizens question enlightenment is a significant era of European history, say one significant enlightener from that time, says Rastko Nemmanic, or Sveti Sava. The Holy Sava is certainly a significant enlightener in the history of our people, but it certainly does not belong to European Enlightenment, unlike Russo, whom only 1% of our citizens cite. 60% of the country's citizens think the Serbs wore a spoon in the Middle Ages. These are the huge delusions that exist. 50% thinks Vuk Brankovic has betrayed Kosovo. Less than 20% knows what the motive of Gernic is. Among these people who give such answers are these 20 - 25 generations, each year 70, 80, 90,000 people, in every generation that has completed our schools and these problems we face today. I don't think they all have such a serious hole in knowledge because they're 35 hours behind, and they're not 25 hours away, which is trying to solve this law and it's not disputed for LDP. At one point you were dealing with the issue of privatisation – is it better internal privatisation, is it a better privatisation in which it joined after 2001? I understand that this is your political and ideological position. I don't see what this has to do with this law at all, but I think these answers that I read to you both in the general situation and in the Serbian economy, and in Serbian education, it has a lot to do with that sentence that was spoken at the end of the 1980s, that the backlog is our chance. This kind of ideology came from certain circles in this society, among other things, and in this circle belonging to the current director of the Institute for the Promotion of textbooks. While you're here, I must warn you of more, at least for LDP, unacceptable access, to those young people, to the way they are educated, the way they will spend their working hours, and the proposal comes from a ministry held by the staff or a high-ranking official of your party. This idea to reorganize huge work activities with Corridor 10 on which young people will build youth settlements is today characteristic only of North Korea. I promise it exists as an announcement of an idea in Serbia. In no other European country, whether Germany or France have disputes over certain points of their history, it does not exist. There are concrete proposals. The LDP, for example, has a concrete proposal when it comes to the education budget, to make sure that in the next five or ten years we can talk – one-third, half, and that is the topic for talking, GDP growth to invest in education, and not in some other segments of society. Believe me, it will increase the ministry's budget annually by 30% or 40%. The idea of a budget that is three or four percent that remains after the profit allocation will increase ten times. It is a very concrete proposal, along with all the strategies that will be prepared and completed, as I understand it, somewhere in October, when, if all of us accept the proposal that you are making in public these days, we will obviously be in the campaign for the local elections you are announcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57848	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57849	Mr. Djuric, I'd like to ask you, just look at the contents of the provisions of the Bookbooks Act. You can draw whatever locks you want, it's your right, but there's no individual, I keep saying that, which can affect the contents of the textbook. The expert commission, three professional men, give an evaluation of the quality of the manuscripts. What do you think they're all ideologically seduced, they don't know what it's about or anything like that. Listen, these are serious things, so the director doesn't decide. The director doesn't decide what happens now? That's another question now. We've just made the law and made it to avoid the possibility of someone individually affecting anything. Three professional men evaluate the content of textbooks. I got one letter on my hands, which was later published in the press, and I gave the answer to that, and what you don't know is that I talked to Professor Simic before that, because I'm not going to talk about it right now, to get any kind of point or affection, but I'm telling you - the individual doesn't affect the content and there's always the possibility of an expert opinion, so some other experts who are involved by the publisher and the author of his choice, watch out for their choice, write a positive review, and then the National Professional Council will decide on it, the matter is very simple. Just to avoid, any volunteerism or individual interpretation, or to avoid the conclusion of this species that you say, is headed by the director who is yours, and yes, you influence it – it is not. Wait, is your representative at the Belgrade city level doing the job of the director, whether it's a LDP policy or a Belgrade City Assembly policy, of course, the Belgrade City Assembly and what the politics of Belgrade is. You can draw a conclusion, he's your director, so that's it, he's not. It's about how the system was built. The system is built here, that he as an individual has no influence. Does anyone like it or not like it? It's a relative thing, and is there a problem where it's not? Was the problem perhaps that the textbook was printed? So it was hard to change his contents. Was that a problem? Therefore, no final conclusions should be drawn immediately on the basis of individual information. I said, as I said the other day, a fellow member of the congregation's majority, means, not out of opposition but out of the congregation's majority, thank God the ministers and individuals can't affect the content of the textbooks, as neither the court rulings can make the content of the textbooks, it's written by historians. So please, you can use it, but I'm telling you you're wrong. The individual does not affect the content of textbooks, neither history nor any other. And with all due respect to you and the other MPs who mention it, we've said what the outcomes of knowledge are, what's going to be based on that... To tell you the procedure is so made, there are expert bodies that judge both me and you may like it and not like it, but if the bodies estimate it is then so. I don't know what the reason, as I would say, these gaps in knowledge you mentioned, whether it's running away from class, whether it's teaching or considering that their education simply doesn't need and which generation is the word. Of 18 years old, 28 years old, 48 years old and so on because research probably has a pattern and it's much more complex than what you showed us. It would be interesting to hear, because there are different types of research, and I don't do local elections at all, don't have an illusion about it, nor is it in the first place, is this job that I do, but I have my own position on local elections. It's a priority education and what I'm doing and now, of course, we're proposing solutions that we think will make things better. You have the right to speak from the point of view of global politics, individually. But I return you consciously to the textbooks, so no single person, no director, no minister, no single person affects the contents of the textbooks, and that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57850	Thank you for your expert explanation. Replica Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57851	That would be true, Mr. Obradovic, if we didn't live in a country where six to seven years ago at a time, and practically by the decision of one person, then a minister who wasn't of course from your party, was a completely changed biology program for the primary school and threw out Darwin's theory. Is that true or not? It happened in 2004 or 2005. It also means that political opinion and political decisions can affect both the content of textbooks and the content of curricula and programmes. You are talking about Serbia where there is no party influence, in which the most powerful publisher, the director of the most powerful publisher, is the recent MP in this parliament, high-ranking member of a parliamentary party. Whether or not the Director of the Institute is close to you, I haven't spoken in technical terms, I've spoken more, how can I tell you here is still a historic issue which is relevant and from the position of your party, you as a man, the changes in the policies your party has adopted, applied over the past three years, not to say in the previous 10 years. That's why it's an interesting question in public. I don't think it's at all bad that the question has been opened, the least important thing is whether the book is printed or not or the private interests of Mr Simic's publisher. These are marginal, ephermanic phenomena in this case. So that's all I wanted to talk about. You mentioned Belgrade, let's talk about it a little bit. I think there is still a difference between politics at Belgrade level and at the level of the Republic government. There, however, decisions are made in a coherent manner, and they are implemented at a level that is local, much more practical, and much less political than this. At the level of the Republic Government, it is not so, and we always have a problem understanding whether you or any of the other ministers are taking the position of their party, their position or the position of the government. Let's say that today, in the debate, you stated a position that is directly contrary to one other member of the ruling coalition, which is that municipalities will receive money under the law adopted here on the G17 plus proposal, and that they should also receive new rights or new obligations, depending on which side you are looking at. This is directly contrary to the position of the political party G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57852	Time. Let me just say the truth can never be ephermeral and marginal and Mr. Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57853	So that we don't turn this into a private discussion, I suggest that Mr. Djuric, after I tell you which set of remarks was the contents of that text, on the draft of that text. Then you will see that the topic you mentioned is marginal in relation to the number of objections, marginal. Why is she in charge? That's the third question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57854	Thanks to all of these, you want to answer the call. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57855	Just 30 seconds, I didn't hear what you said, I didn't say that the history of the epherman and the marginal, I said that part of the problem was ephemeral and marginal. I think you've been commenting on what I've been saying. I'm sorry to mention your party, but I hope that's not what caused that kind of reaction in half your voice. By the time I checked in, another 30 seconds, there was a time I went to school then, when already printed textbooks were changing to print, I don't know in geography, say, the chapter of the Serbian Republic, BiH or the Serbian Republic of Krajina. I agree that the textbooks already printed will be completed in accordance with the daily political events.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57856	Thank you. On the basis of article 87, I am setting a break and the work of the Assembly has been extended, Mrs Comic said, but we will continue at four, with us working from four to the end of this point for more than 18 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister's entrance to the O.R., we welcome, and that just marked the beginning of our afternoon work. We continue where we have been in a joint principled search on the proposal for a Law on Optical Discs and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and by order of the Members of the People according to the application for word. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary, before I begin my presentation, I will only address the Mr. Chairman, the time of my parliamentary group, I think I have one three minutes left from an authorised representative who has not been used by my head of Parliament, if I accidentally exaggerated, to know. I'm not going to abuse a larger unit of time. So we have two draft laws ahead of us. Minister Obradovic was honored to defend one of his laws, which he very and professionally and gladly, I see, well defends this one, in which we are less - more accepted that this law on optical discs, which came under a little pressure from the EU, in order to arrange one field that we know exists, as a gray zone of the market economy, here is trade, traffic, production, import and export of optical discs. According to some findings, about 90% of this product is of suspicious origin, since we are mostly just consumers of it. I'm going to say that even a few years ago, trying to curb the trade on the gray market with optical discs has not yielded any special results. We're hoping some things will be settled with this law. With the very text of the law, in technical terms, we weren't most pleased. He has important failures, literally in technical terms. We have also intervened in this amendment with Article 23, in particular in point 8) of the Law that a vague law refers to the functioning of the Market Inspectorate and that some problematicly broad powers are given, which could be the subject of abuse. We've intervened here, but we'll see about the adoption of the amendment, how our good intentions will be recognized. Since we as a parliamentary group, so far, New Serbia, have taken our amendments seriously in all laws and are mostly ministers, although we have recognised the opposition party. We have probably the largest number of amendments adopted, given the size of the parliamentary group. But let's talk about education, which, above all, is a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, because education and education is, above all, a persistent and responsible handling of both the word and the example, if we want to define this pillar or the foundation of society, one of the basic pillars or the foundation of society or state. I can't help but remind Mr. Minister that today we're bringing changes and additions around some of the members that we were about two years ago, in 2009, when we passed that law, we passed, and we know that we were on the same, so to speak, we owe the waver to the evaluations of government and so on, fundamental in education. I'm glad you're correcting the law today, and then you've only partially adopted some of our amendments, confirmed that the problem has arisen in practice, and I would say, life has just given an answer. The life of the school gave an answer. What was needed today by this law, you're trying to partially correct. Education is in modern society, and we have found it through the discussion of most colleagues so far something everyone is happy to talk about, and they are reluctant to admit that the most important education in the modern state is. It was important always, it's always equally important, but today when we're like this, there's no other resource that can move the state forward except for education. What wise societies do that see politics beyond the next election campaign, those who run a state policy rather than a political policy, then invest in education. The slowest you can see are the highest results and the most rewarding. I would always come back, and when I talk about education, we always have to quote Anton Macarenko's greatest pedagogist who said, "Our children, that's our age, our happy age, bad education is a future accident, and our tears, our guilt, our shame in front of other people and in front of the whole country." It's in a way that humanely explains what we can do for the good and what we can't do if we don't approach education and education in the way it should be a strategy of this society. In the law itself, in the very 30 members you change the existing law of 2009, we have put only four amendments and those that we could essentially explain. So we can agree on some things, we can disagree on some things and suggest that maybe we think that the solution we propose would be better. I think you've made a qualitative shift in changes and additions, especially in the fact that you've helped a little bit to make certain things seem apparent, I say, more seemingly stricter, more preventively stricter, and that they allow far-reaching to deliver better results in youth education and education. As a parent and as an educational worker, it always bothered me when they waved a lot about children's rights. A true tutor, well-intentioned, first children learn that all rights stem from duty and duty. That's what we have to say. So we don't have all the rights and rights to everything. They don't have our children either, if we love them. So that's what the Education Act, as one responsible and managed process, needs to be clearly defined. I'm saying, we got a problem, too. This law isn't perfect either. Nor will these changes of yours bring perfection to this law. There'll be more changes. What we would draw attention to, I always like to say to the Minister, and to remind him that I am personally an MP every time a budget or budget rebalancing was passed before MEPs, I have always had an amendment that sought out funds for the Ministry of Education somewhere. But there has never been any amendment adopted, which, of course, was not my fault. But just so you know, this isn't just a declarative pledge, because I really think and I really do root for you to fight the government for far greater means of education. Because responsible society and responsible state knows – if it invests there, it will not result in the first next elections, but those who are well-intentioned to this people and this country will have a far better result. The Ministry of Education, the ministry of today's education, is the ministry with the oldest tradition in the Serbian people and therefore has a special responsibility for everything. Mr. Minister, I'm going to remind you of a few members we've amended to intervene on. Let's say, Article 13, where you're asking to delete the words that students can plead in the student parliament on the choice of textbooks. It's not that qualification: "choice of textbooks" nor was it happy at the time, but they should be left with a qualification to be able to declare their textbooks, to have their own attitude about them. That can't hurt because it's not binding. In Article 14, I think that's where we met, that you moved some things, that's when the government evaluations came in, and I think we've now agreed, and you'll see and soon you'll be the future, whether you'll be, Minister, or someone else in another government, but certainly the future will bring another need for intervention on the evaluation of the government. We got her back on average in elementary school. That was very important. It is necessary to lower it to an even lower adult level on average, in order to ignore some consequences. Because, you know, fortunately, still, no matter what external appearances we have in schools, very unpleasant events, very unpleasant experiences, very often the presence of violence, especially between children towards teachers and teachers, so these are extreme cases. What they are encouraged to do, and what they are, is a different story, and you have said it well, but these stricter members exist because of such extremes, and everyone else has no reason to be concerned. A reduction in the number of unwarranted classes in high school personally, and as a teacher and as a parent, I welcome. I have a kid in high school, and I don't think my kid who goes to high school has any reason to stay out of five unwarranted classes, let alone 25. I really think that if it happens to me as a parent, I have a problem first, then school. So that's something we have to face. I don't need to flirt with the electoral body of parents, nor educators, nor young voters, but I really think it is for their own good. Whoever gets to 25, between 25 and 35 is no difference, and whoever gets to 25, believe me, he's already pretty much on the wrong track. So all of these are some things that we think you should fix. I'd like to draw your attention to one word that I've been paying attention to in my time with another law. But I also believe that you must pay attention, because it is the Ministry of Education. So this is just a technical, spelling detail, literally. In Article 16, where you say, "as many as 15 hours after your parents' written notice." You should have said "written." Written and written is not the same term. It's a written document, but it can be written in writing and in writing. You know, if I write something, it doesn't mean I'm written enough at the same time. It's just a detail and I'm asking you to fix it. In our own time, as professors of literature, we had long sex, and for a few years it was in effect to write – the first school written assignment or the first school written assignment, and that's what we had one controversy about, to take a stand, but I'm telling you, we're really checking literacy here, so this can stand, but there's got to be a written document here. So that's what I'm drawing your attention to. In order for the state to have the opportunity to be a state and be in the right sense of the word and to have its laws functioning, to be satisfied, to go through some progress, it must before all other resources have a healthy and good education. That the laws governing relations in education are positive. As a parliamentary group, we really wanted to be constructive and to make amendments to some ambiguity and to this repair, as well as in 2009, better solutions, clearer solutions. Because there will be a chance again that this or some other minister says that practice is denying us. What we've suggested is practice and I hope you recognize it anyway. Because anyway, we're at this point, I'm going to use one aphorism - a state with developmental difficulties and with politicians with special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57859	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57860	The Honored Chairman, Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System today, was issued by my colleague Miletic Mihajlovic at the outset, and I would only once again support that position. I would simply, with just a few more words, join the support he announced when the two laws were passed. I'm not gonna stick to the optical disc law for the simple reason that I think there's one big consensus here, and I don't think there's any need to stick to that law, but I'm going to explain in a few more sentences why we're going to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Educational System. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was adopted two years ago, belongs to the group, if I can call it, live laws, laws that apply immediately in practice. That also means the necessary need to monitor its application. Even something that is missing from our political system that when we pass a lot of laws, we devote much less time to their application. This is a law whose application must be followed, because it is simply life. Life and practice determines whether there are problems in implementation, where there is and what needs to be done to change it to make it even more efficient. It is this law on amendments and additions that has also been created as a result of implementation, the result of practice. So the practice has proposed amendments and additions to this law. I'll just hold on to a few things. I think it is most important to point out that the law on amendments and amendments to the law in some way encourages and education of adults, giving him a qualification of specificity in this law. What in this law is the basis for special laws, on the one hand, as far as I can see, is being prepared or a law on adult education that we consider an important law and that is, in fact, permanent education for life. On the other hand, the part also creates conditions for the work of adult education councils. So something similar or the same as the National Educational Council, when it comes to preschool, primary and secondary education. It's for support. The second part to which the amendment of this law applies is the part relating to records and documents of the public. What is the goal and what I wanted by amending this law is to introduce a single information system in that area in Serbia. Of course, the assumption is the establishment of a database by institutions and a unique information system that was at the state level, i.e. the ministry. A very important question, for the simple reason that, without good, accurate and accurate data and records, there is no possibility of looking at the real situation in this area and establishing educational policy plans, etc. That's why it needs to be supported, because it creates a basis for something like that. What I want to draw attention to in this section, as my colleagues have already done before, given that this is about personal data, given that this is about identity, simply once again to warn that it is necessary to provide absolute data protection, in accordance with the Data Protection Act. The third question that is characteristic of this law, and what we support, refers to educational and disciplinary measures. But I'd like to just say from one angle, it's a few things when it comes to the rights and obligations of the students. The first thing is to establish a more quality relationship between students, parents and schools, starting with the lack of justice, where parents must be involved, through a disciplinary procedure, where parents are also involved. When I say parent, I mean parent or guardian, the exact same thing. Then, especially when it comes to educational disciplinary measures in Articles 44 and 45. The law, which is one of the most sensitive issues in this area. And, of course, I don't owe the final evaluations of the government. This is a particular issue that has come to terms, the practice has shown that it is not well solved, which is sanctioning unwarranted absences. I think this is the solution that's been given here, to reduce, not only to decrease from 35 to 25, but to establish one novelty. It is no longer required that there must be any other injury to sanction, but already sanctioned. One more thing, we have two kinds of steps that I think are very important. The first is that the school is obliged to inform parents of unwarranted absences already after the tenth. At least that's what the formulation says, either over 25, or 15 over parent's notice. That means, as soon as he's ten, the parent has to get informed. That's the first step. Also in sanctioning these injuries, he also insists on graduality. I think it's for absolute support. The fourth thing I want to say, briefly, is that there are still amendments that talk about more efficient functioning and organisation, and when it comes to the rational and when it comes to the takeover of employees, the acceptance of a certain time, the engagement through regulations of the norm, which was once like a solution. Then, when it comes to the school boards, when it comes to the participation of the unions in the management bodies, specifically in preschool and school, they have participated so far, etc. So all these changes tell us about a serious one-way approach, because they change and new solutions are offered, and the system is not chosen. That's why he's serious, because the education system can't change how the government comes, it's older than any government, than any party. What I want to stay on for a little while, too, today was about textbooks. Start with questions and remarks, which I ask to take another look at, whether the student parliament should give an opinion on the quality of the textbook, for which I think it is necessary to take a good look at it, through some other issues that are current or at least through day-to-day political events being imposed as current. This is an important part of the educational education system, textbooks, but also not only the educational education system, but also the economic system, because bear in mind that in that part billions are spinning. Two years ago, in 2009, I said here, and now I'm pleased to say it, because it turned out to be true, that this government deserves recognition in this area for at least two reasons. The first is that after many years she finally introduced order when it comes to textbooks. Then she seduced him through the adoption of the Bookbooks Act. The second is that, headed by you, one action is very important for the citizens of Serbia, which also had a basis in the Serbian Constitution, which is free textbooks. Then I commended it and asked you to endure it. I am very pleased to say that after those two years, the first year they received first classes, the second year and the first year and the second year, and that is already around 147-148 thousand students in Serbia who received free textbooks. The action has spread, and I also want to make an example of Belgrade, because the city authorities, within the social policy measure, helped Belgrade's citizens through all other measures and put this measure as a priority, which means they provided for the first, second and fifth, and by September of the month for all eight classes, which is about 120,000 students in Belgrade. Please, these funds are the funds of Belgrade, they are not the funds of Serbia's budget and they are not on whose account. Simply, these funds have been spent, above all, thanks to the political will of the city authorities in Belgrade. So I ask you to continue this action, to insist on it, because that is a significant question. You know, in September of the month, helping a family that has one, two or three students is a big deal and a big question. Investment in that is actually an investment in the future, it might be the best investment. In the end, I want to raise another question – what is the characteristic of these amendments to the law, besides what I said is a living law that must be followed and everything that comes to it must be responded? It stands here in one place, and it's known to everyone, that this is the result of working together with representatives of representative unions. We've all witnessed how much effort and effort you've put into dialogue with these partners, they're partners, you come up with solutions that are today. What I'm saying here is that we support the dialogue you have with your social partners. We even send a wider message - Serbia will not be able to do anything unless social dialogue with social partners is established. It's simple, like one message. I believe that the government will fulfill everything it has taken to the end. That's one reason I can say that in the most difficult conditions of the big economic crisis, when there is no money, and education has never otherwise had money, that in such conditions an educational education system has been preserved. In the end, Mr. Minister, the education and education system includes pre-school education, primary and secondary education and education, means a whole range of these areas. This foundation should also give rise to concrete individual laws. I ask if the ministry is ready to go out with the laws, as the law on elementary school and high school law prepares? I consider this an important question. I expect that this will also be so, along with the Serbian education strategy, which I also believe is being done, the education system in Serbia will be rounded up. I'm giving you a chance to make that public. Given that such a round system is certainly something to strive for, what you will fight for, I would only point out in the end once again that in the design, as so far as you have been recognizable, through the respect of this National Assembly and through the fact that for each law you provide a broader consensus, constantly considering that the education system is older than any government, a system that relies on both teaching and pedagogical practice, which is also children's custom, but which is also Serbia's economy, etc. So we will have one system, I believe, which is adapted to the time we live in, the conditions in which we live, which will also be modern, adapted to European conditions, but at the same time respect the traditions of our system. So, I'm giving you a chance to answer to the public whether this education system will be rounded up in the next period? In addition, I repeat what I said at the beginning, we will give support to both one law and another in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57861	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57862	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome you once again. Speaking as an authorised representative of the group, I have already listed some of the principles that we point to and why we think it is necessary to amend the law, at least by adopting our 19 amendments. Listening to my colleagues who used to talk, I'm really in a big dilemma, because they opened the central question – who are the winners of the education system, are students, teachers, parents? That's what I'm listening to, let's say, to whom the system is more favourable, so we're going to make the students a little bit more comfortable, as in the 2009 law, and now we're going to do a little bit of teaching, and we're going to end these rights. It's just that I don't look at school like that, and I'm afraid, like a man from school and who's going to go back to school, if it's discipline as the only method that the school can work, then we, gentlemen, are on a fat and wrong path, because between the discipline of students, on the one hand and teachers, on the other hand, which offered the 2009 law, and now you're correcting it, there's a big thick sea of agreements and negotiations, and that's the only place and the only way the school works, so, the golden middle. I still have to comment that I heard here, precisely from those who were the scariest and the best way to praise the law in 2009, right in these areas where they are also very good advocates now that it was not very good. I don't know why people fight with themselves so much. Let's talk about the law. Now I'm going to go back to this next area that I wanted to search, which is the rights of children and students, obligations and the responsibility of students. I think it's an area I'd call student discipline, because that's his point, as I can see. In the very reasoning of the law, you speak of it very little or almost by no means, in relation to what you say about other areas, and I think it's a very important area and that this area should by no means remain with a few sentences that you have said here. I'll start with the first thing, and that's the number of absences. By 2009 the number of unwarranted absences could have been 25. You took it up to 35, and now you're going back to what was before that. I'm asking you, do you have the effects of that act that you've done, that increase in unwarranted hours? I'd say those effects were devastating, that's what school teachers say, that's what high school teachers say. I think we should hear your comment on that, too. On the other hand, you're changing it and it's one of the comments that can be. Who died in this experiment called an increase in unwarranted hours? The children were killed, although it doesn't seem that way at first sight, even though teachers and teachers who couldn't give classes and order at school seem to be. The children were killed. By law, gentlemen, they had the right to stay behind and they used it rightly, they didn't come to class, they got weak grades, they didn't follow what was done. Someone's responsible for that. Furthermore, when you change this number of absences, you say that the parent will be met in good time, he will be able to justify lessons in good time. What's a good time for you, what's that number? We make amendments here where we tell you very slowly that it should be within 10 days, within 15 days. I think it improves the law. It's a good time for me as a parent for a year, and for you as a parent it's maybe a month, and for you as a teacher it's three days. Let's find out what it is on time. Then, in law, you give a student the opportunity to teach justice. It would be good for you to hear what your high school teachers say. And the parents are the ones who, for the sake of peace in their own home, justify classes where they don't have room, so schools get wrapped up, seek medical assurances, and everything else. It's very important here that a parent takes responsibility, and that right responsibility for what happens to his family and his child. Then, the next area - the assessment of the rule. It was also announced in 2009 as an incredible shift in the achievement of children's rights, incredible psychological differences. And then I defended the view that it was completely unusable at school. And now I defend that attitude, defend it in amendment. You suggest that from the first to the sixth grade, the rating from the government is given in detail, and we tell you that it is okay to describe it from the first to the fourth grade of primary school, from the fifth to the eighth grade, it is necessary to give a numerical grade at the midterm and at the end of the year and that it enters the average success of the students. It's unclear why you took off only one class of that descriptive grade again. What are the famous psychological differences between sixth and seventh grade children? Please tell me that, if you've already defined yourself that in the sixth grade those for some reason should be descriptively evaluated. It seems to me that for the past two years in your school life, the experiment has already shown that it's not good and that these cosmetic changes you're making right now, whether it's sixth or seventh grade, they're wrong. There's no such psychological difference, I'm telling you, and I'd like to talk to you about it because I think it's quality when these things open up. The explanation of the amendment last time I talked about it, I got the answer that it's very important to say that children have psychological effort in the fifth grade, to adapt to the fifth grade, so it's not good to evaluate them with a numerical assessment of the rule, which is a lot. What psychological effort should each of us make to be decent? It's elemental. Let's not make a story where it's not there. I don't belong to those who will tell you that children's rights are an illusion, that children shouldn't have rights and I'm not ashamed to say that I'm an advocate of children's rights. Of course, there are obligations behind the law, every normal one teaches every man and child, because law and obligation is actually one thing, but I don't think what you're proposing leads to anything. Now we come to the central story of Article 17, which only the authority touches in an explanation, which is a disciplinary procedure. Schools are public institutions and as such are obliged to carry out disciplinary proceedings under the procedures of the ZUP, i.e. administrative procedure. There were also comments in 2009 to turn the school into a courtroom, but it is interesting that the practice has shown that there is no single objection for child rights protectors based on procedures that were then prescribed. The procedures were clear, he had a trail of steps, where procedures were unpleasant for children there was and there was still a psychological and pedagogical service at school, a professional service that needed to strengthen the child. After all, this procedure guards both school and child and protects both teachers and parents and children's rights. I really don't think you should give up on what you wrote here in 2009, and now I'm going to explain why I mean it. Because the alternative you're offering here is one completely empty and fluid form of mixing two different approaches, which was obviously some kind of deal between you and the union, which means again that between when you want to make concessions you have to explain your actions and they do. Obviously, you've found yourself halfway apart by not explaining the actions of either one or the other. That procedure that was at the time protecting the child, I think it should stay, because it's very important to protect the child. Now the degree of protection of the child's rights is coming down. That's not a European standard. That's what the child rights protector told you on the Children's Rights Task Force and you should have talked to her before this session on the subject. Who's going to pay for this new trip of meddling procedures? Kids, they've always paid the kids, they'll always pay the kids. That, I repeat, is not a European standard, on the contrary. Furthermore, you say this - a decision should be made in 60 days whether a disciplinary procedure will be initiated. You have children of a very sensitive age in front of you and not every child has done some procedure on purpose, it has happened, it's been in a situation, it's happened. Imagine 60 days of childcare that awaits whether someone will initiate the procedure or not. We've shortened this procedure to you precisely for the reason of the child's psychological safety. Then, a written statement from the child. I'm someone who worked at school right now on these jobs. The most frightening part of the procedure for an expert associate who is to do research and ice-creaming is the written statement of a child, even when a child is underage, so it's a parent, it's a disaster for whoever goes through it with him and for the child himself. If we're going to formally write something, it's going to be, and we're all trying to get through it as formally as possible, so that we don't damage the child. I really don't know how you could change this. We wrote you an amendment in that direction, but keep in mind that the most notorious people from the criminal mileage in this country are defending themselves with silence, and our children have no rights that they have, say, protected witnesses in this country. Then we have the next measure you're offering, moving a child to another school, when it comes to a primary school student. You say -- it's also a concession and it's clear, it's a bad concession, I'd say, which is not how you offer it to the end. You're saying that the school that the child is supposed to move to has to agree with that. If he doesn't agree, then what? Then you're saying that a parent should also agree to it. If he doesn't agree, what about it? Imagine the status of that child whose transfer procedure you started, so it stopped for reasons that further steps in the procedure were not known, because the parents did not agree or disagreed with the school or one and the other disagreed. It seems to me that this will show the even greater impotence of the school that started the procedure and couldn't carry it out until the end. On the other hand, and that position, the discriminatory position of the child at that point, is something we need to take care of. So again, I underline – between discipline teachers, between disciplined students, that is, those extremes approach one and the other, you have the whole field that both in that community, which is in this symbiosis called school, build a system of trust and work on the benefits and well-being of both. This is how both work for themselves in two different sexes, and that is why none of the other schools see each other as their own home. Articles 17, 18 and 25 are indeed a source of discrimination and I sincerely ask you to think about it a little bit more, look at the amendments that we have proposed and try to fix these things, because it is not a matter of us telling you – wonderful that you have accepted our amendments, accept others if they have written the same thing, help children and teachers at school to change school. The school can no longer be that community that was before the change of 2000. Furthermore, the National Educational Council and advice on professional education and adult education must, in our opinion, pass the procedure both here and here in the Assembly for the Assembly to determine how much their budget contributions will be. As we have already mentioned the National Educational Council, I have one question for you – in Article 13 of the National Educational Council, it is said who is doing all this educational advice, so point 5) – one member of the class of teachers, educators, professional associates, foreign language society, the society of mathematicians of Serbia, the society of historians. What kind of society are historians, Mr. Minister? As far as I know, and I'm informed, there's only one society of historians that has been reregistered in accordance with the existing law. There are, however, a large number of NGOs, of which you are obviously the one who is called – the Serbian historians' Association "Stojan Novakovic" short-lived DIS you want to turn into a society that needs to enter this National Educational Council. It is very important that you know that only one society of historians is registered and that you answer me if this is an inaccuracy that simply happened as a literal error or is it an inaccuracies that should lead to the recognition of an NGO to enter the National Educational Council? He says one letter, according to this, is precise in Article 13 which the members of the National Educational Council, only in historians, are inaccurately, namely, multiple societies. In line with this, it is necessary for other areas to propose society to their representatives, not society, or to specify for historians to do so, as so far, the Association of Serbian historians. It seems for historians, it's not just about that textbook by Predrag Simic, but that there's some problem with looking with historians in general. Another thing about employment, it's another area, very important in the law, hiring teachers, and other than those some technical things that concern a fund of up to 20%, which is fine, taking over teachers, it's okay, because schools really have that problem, especially schools in smaller places and schools where there are more teachers working in one space, but one thing burned my eyes out. You say -- hiring teachers, and then you say that those teachers who pass the narrow choice are going to be questioned by the competent employment service, because the supposed capacity of the employment service is not such that all teachers who apply to a single competition can accept and accept. I think that's the other way around. This particular service, if it were in charge at all, I would swear that it would be much better if there were really one commission that would deal with quality and health, especially psychologically, I speak from experience, because there were a lot of problems with some young people who had been admitted, who had their own history of disease since before, and it was very complicated for them, first of all, that they were very complicated to get into the system and to get out of the system without getting hurt. I think there should be one commission that would take this seriously, not this commission of competent employment services because it's a short process with them that's like going to a doctor to take the opinion of a doctor for a driver's license. Education is a service that deserves much more than getting one doctor's examination, just one doctor's seal. Why would I think that? I'll explain, because there's never 50 people in the competition. Five, six people come forward, and this is exactly what one interrogation can show that candidate who is the most qualified. You'll be safe there, because it might happen, I've done these kinds of jobs, I know for a fact that many of the candidates you thought were your best quality. Let's do the next thing, turn it on. I know it's not the subject of this law, but I'm afraid we need to talk a few sentences about it because even then, in 2009, I was the advocate of getting into it with your throat into strawberries, that you weren't ready for material or professionally or anything else. Things are going relatively well thanks to people who pull out what the system can't provide on their muscles. Our subcommittee received an inclusion support group, and I really saw what quality women were about, because they were all women. What does that big problem indicate? I've recently heard that in Leskovac there's a school, where Roma are otherwise gravitating, which we're trying to include in the system so that it could be an inclusion, although the inclusion isn't, but let's call it that, in that department, they're only learning Roma. Is that the intensity of the intrusion? Is that what we want to achieve? I think we've completely missed someone with less responsibility and someone with more responsibility. When it happened, it actually shows that the whole society wasn't aware, that the support that we talked about, that the inclusion shouldn't be so throat-inducing, is lagging behind, that there's actually a problem. Please comment on what to do with this now. That's a very important question. If more people live in that space, not only do I say majority people, and if they eventually all put their children away and it remains a pure Roma ward, I ask you to comment on it. It's something that's a very big problem for me. We practically tried to change this law with 19 amendments. We've also changed something that concerns you directly. You've increased yourself from two years of age to bring sublegal acts to three. I simply don't mean you personally, but I mean the minister of education, because in three years, there will be another minister of education. I think the administration has to take responsibility and deal effectively with its affairs. I see you have a big team. Many people have come here before to committees and parliamentary groups and everything else. You've got a big team, and you've got some good-quality people. The laws come out. You yourself said the number of laws that came before us. I think that these things, like making sublaws, which and how they mean law enforcement, that means that this procedure has to be speeded up and we, believe it or not, cut it down to a year. There, just in your term of office, you can leave a mark on the sublegal documents. There are some other things to be commented on, did you deliberately abandon the Ministry of Education with Article 6, but we'll talk about it when these things come to order, when we talk about amendments, not in principle. I ask you to comment on the issue of inclusion, to comment on this problem that I have raised, to comment on the disciplinary measures, and especially to comment on the society of historians, or on the societies of historians, as you wrote here. These people are watching this transmission, and they care very much about what status they're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57863	Thank you. The word is from Vice-President of the Assembly, MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57864	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within three minutes, as far as I'm concerned, I would like to focus on the problems of this law from the corner of the child's rights. There are four points that are very important and that are most appropriate to comment here on the bad solution offered in this law. We have no doubt that there are good solutions and for this reason we support this law, but we must also point out what is wrong. First, it refers to the student parliament. In fact, this Article of the 13th Law leaves out the possibility for students or children to influence the choice of textbooks in any way, to give an opinion or at all to say what they think about the quality of textbooks used during that year when they learned from that textbook. I believe that this narrows down the possibility of children becoming active subjects, active participants in their education and remains passive subjects to which certain educational and educational measures apply. The second observation refers to the educational-discipline procedure. There are several bad solutions in this law in the context of this educational-discipline procedure. This is to abandon the application of the rules of the general administrative procedure, the introduction of a written statement, which actually introduces a police method of follow-up to a small door. As the third solution in this Article, I find it very bad that 60 days is predicted to be the time limit within which a certain educational discipline can be initiated. I think it's too long, if it compares to Article 25, which refers to the launch or conduct of a disciplinary procedure against an employee, because in this case, in three months, the right to initiate a disciplinary procedure, the conduct of a disciplinary procedure, is outdated within six months. In this way, one option is given to the staff, i.e. the teaching and educational staff, in some way possibly abuse, and the possibility in this procedure is educational and disciplinary, because if it is a disciplinary procedure against teachers and other employees, then very comfortable deadlines are given and the procedure is very quickly outdated. When it comes to students, it leaves a very long period of psychological and how it can endanger a student. The next point I would refer to concerns the transfer of students. This is from Article 18. I don't think there's been an adequate solution in the event that it's found that a student should be transferred from fifth to eighth grade to second grade school because he's wanted, in addition to the teacher's board's decision, the parent's opinion, or the guardian's opinion, as well as the school he's going to. Still, it should perhaps be a little better and a little more quality to work out this whole process, not in this way that can actually cause extremely severe consequences for the student to whom it applies. The fourth point she would refer to is to examine the psychophysical abilities of teachers or educators. I think it's too much responsibility to put on these people and should never be left to the employment service to apply standardized procedure and assess the ability of a future teacher, teacher or teacher to raise our future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57865	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57866	The SNS parliamentary group in explaining the reasons for disagreement with some elements that have been presented on amending the law, and first trying to provide evidence of why these changes do not lead to equality or quality or efficiency, etc., stopped in the analysis of the students' enrollment in primary school. It is a member of the 12th proposal, which refers to Article 98 of the Integrated Law, in which it is truly described in one position, and it was probably missed when the law was passed. It may have been the subject of debate or not, but it is rarely remembered without stenographic notes. When the school assesses that it is necessary to give the children an individual educational plan and additional support, it is then referred to a request for financial resources and it goes somehow through the inter-resor committee to the competent doctor of general practice, the competent doctor of the home health, that is the doctor, pediatrician of general practice, etc. I tried to understand this position, and since I failed to do so, we proposed the amendment to make a certain change because who is actually being asked for financial resources? It says - if additional support requires funding, probably school. The school also implies what it has to look for through a doctor, a chosen doctor, a confirmation that he needs it, if the inter-resor committee elected by the minister himself, three ministers, and not one, found that the school must, because of such candidates, or that number of children, or one candidate already, organises an additional programme. So we thought we might be able to do that, and we'd do a little bit of linking it to the next position of 7 that is just pointing out the importance of the inter-resor commission first and pulling for some other needs the importance of the chosen doctor, where he really, considering the medical documentation of the child being enrolled in the school, which can come from different levels of primary, secondary, therapeutic, health care, depends on who the disease or disorder is working on, to integrate it and to deliver it, therefore, by giving it to everyone. We think we've given each of our own place in the system a more logical way. As for the rule of general success, etc., we welcome this change. It takes children who are young, young, fifth-sixth grade to know that their behavior can affect their final success, that the purple elements of behavior should be eliminated, that it is no longer a nursery, and that understanding of that kind for collective life is gone. Because any purple behavior of a child can do harm to another child, and there, simply, should lead children slowly into that feeling, order, order in which they need to know. Of course, we'll see later when we say the measures, which I think is crucially pointed out, this step-by-step is very important. I think that in some normal collective, normal commissions and in most schools, it's that and that all of these steps will be kept and really clearly evaluated, both the type of easier and the type of serious injury and that the appropriate measures are imposed. So this, as it stands in Article 14, is quite all right, but we're trying to see how we can improve what you wrote, instead of point 7. in Article 15. – The parental guardian is obliged to make timely justice to the absence of students and delivers complete and accurate contact information. Trying to see what's going to get into the records in your earlier requests, there's a contact phone, contact information, a little bit of it seems unclear. Probably, they're true and true. Perhaps there is more in legal terms than we MPs can have, as we are currently considering this problem. I think maybe this is where the forgotten phenomenon should be introduced, if it's about the absence of students who are the parent, guardian, etc., and the nature and the illness of the injury is a medical reason, that the old doctor's confidence and the school dispensary, or some competent service, which school and municipality has. That would be more of a benefit, because a parent will always justify his child and often become an unprincipled child-parent coalition, especially among the dignitaries, where the children of wolves, excellent students, go to school for days and they cover it. Well, if the classmate knows either he's home friend with his mother, or father, etc. It's an elegant pass. The other kids don't go well, but make sure they go well. It is a clear state in Serbia. There's always a connection and a tie, in smaller environments especially. Why, if sometimes someone covers up for a health condition, the parent says it's a health condition, which the school would blanco receive that news, because tomorrow can still be something more serious, an unrecognized disease, so they'll say, yes, my child was sick, so what he did to a pedagogical school, so he didn't see a psychologist that the child was absent because of the illness, so he turns out to be a serious disease and he wasn't at the doctor, a grader, or a mother or a father justified it, but nobody saw it or saw it, etc. Why don't we finally introduce it? We have something in terms of the amendment that we have submitted that, if it is already health, let some paper confirm it. Because it can be invented, it can also make up a doctor and a relationship, but sometimes when it really is a health problem, and everyone believes it, there's an unrecognized serious disease that can really exist. He still needs to ask each of the participants if he might have missed something. When it comes to assessing the severity of the injury, let me make a comment at all. You should be careful about the phasing out of that incentive, do some kids smoke in schools, and does the one who offered him a cigarette encourage him and have someone report him like that? Where there's even a school psychologist in this whole story, etc., who should recognize and have some class, some place and those people, not to answer, mostly, when the problem happens and realize that the child wasn't noticeable. I think we need to affirm the position of this kind of expert, especially in schools that are large enough to afford or cover more schools and things like that. As far as we're concerned, we're all talking about this educational disciplinary procedure today, and we probably all have more or less the same attitudes. We all agree that 60 days is a lot. From what I hear, most of us talk about it. Perhaps it would be possible to shorten and pay attention to the fact that a sentence should be put in place, that it would certainly end at the time of the school year. If it doesn't end, let's say, kids steal journals, burns, redecorates -- you know what they do? They kick teachers' ass when they're finishing their grades. We can't forget that side of the story. These are the same children who are committing a serious disciplinary offense. If you don't do it now, then it's a school year. Imagine the senior year and he's supposed to sign up somewhere, he's not gonna get a degree, he's not gonna do this, he's not gonna do that. It should be borne in mind and that fact, that really disciplinary measures are being taken for the truly purple and difficult behaviors that we are aware of, well finally, and killings in schools, etc., where the child is indisposed, or I don't know why and what reason that happens. We must stand in the protection of order and order. After all, like any institution, they must have some rules. In the case of the transfer of students, I think what you've corrected may not have been necessary to touch. The fact that it is now added to point 3) – reproof of the Director, that was already mandatory in point 2). It was said more clearly that a child who was excluded from school could not re-enter the same. This proposal you've just made doesn't mean it can't write it down, it's just moving away. When it says it can't, it can happen that the same student comes back and enrolls in that same school if he's been expelled. I don't know what ruined this former condition you've had. The consent of parents and schools is a question of how to obtain. What, if a school doesn't give someone consent, and it's easy for a parent to say -- listen, a kid goes to school, loses his right to school or change school. It's easy for a parent to scare, and there's a director and some other neighboring school -- what are you sending me a student, one or another? You never know how those communications go. If you have to make a legal commitment to consent, that's already a question. Maybe that should work out differently, keep the previous solution. There's a possibility where consent won't come, and then what happens to the child when the school year starts, or if it's about the elementary school, which is mandatory, because he can't stay defective and not finish school and go to private school, etc. These are some of the elements we wanted to highlight first. In the election of the director, the director really has rights. The school board is more or less a front. The director also has a real narrow choice and sends to the employment service branch, the Employment Service to assess psychophysical abilities. I didn't know it existed, but I have to be honest, even though it was in the old law. I turned a few people with a long experience and asked – do you know about it? Everyone told me they didn't know. I didn't turn the table around, I didn't turn the statistical sample. Is someone who needs to be accepted as a biology teacher, checked at the Employment Service, the Employment Service on a commission there, if he's psychophysicalally capable. I guess we're all wearing medical assurances about the work we're starting. If there is a need for this commission to be more powerful for these needs, it should finally be put. Of course, when a narrow choice is made, only those who have done it and do it. Or, say, the next attitude, where it's about narrow choice for religious teaching, so they're going to check. It takes simple, those who have proof that they're on the religious community list that it is, and then go to check, and not go to a psychophysical checkup, and then the list of teachers of religious teaching doesn't find that he's on the list. A little order of the store to change, maybe it wouldn't be a bad thing to make a correction. One more remark. Since we see that everyone here pays a lot of money for what they do or don't do, or is doing less intensity – trying to burden one teacher with six classes per week is not exactly a little bit. If the fund is there, 60 percent will continue, introduce a clause – if there is more than one teacher, so that it can be shared and not paid. You know, everyone in this country pays a lot of what we wouldn't consider overtime. Some people think that when it's written like this, it's not going to be paid, I don't know how else to figure it out. But it is not considered overtime, perhaps because of other privileges it carries. Of course, this work needs to be paid and, eventually, to count on this fund being divided into more people. Yet to one man for six hours, he didn't have a trust fund to be given. It's not too clear from this correction exactly what you wanted, except to bypass the problem for that year, until someone who's going to do this job is found and maybe divide it into more, if there's no more footage, there's probably more approximate personnel, roughly educated who could do it. It would be about this law, something about this second bill, maybe it would be a problem, this is a matter that's quite new, which is quite logical and should introduce order into both production and the optical disc market. However, only when it comes to the obligation of institutions, institutions which impose criminal measures on decision-making bodies is Article 14 of Article 13 and that their urgency is to report to the Licence Authority. What kind of judgments are broken and these others, how long the procedure is, how long it can take, because one of the crimes is associated with the division of intellectual property, etc., with another criminal act, it can last for years, and here it stands only in the proposal to get a license, even a hint that someone has committed a crime or a felony. It can be an object, that his license is stopped, frozen, taken away permanently, etc., or temporarily perhaps consider whether it will come to life, and not that it is legally not coherent, but rather the question of who will force the courts to still remember the institution and to line up whoever issued the license, yes, this one is yours, this one has. Now the general data the court comes to have, but indeed it should alone, surely the accused will not say – excuse me, I do not have the right to license, to simply cut it as a memory and how long the procedure will take, because it is about that you might see what can be done on that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57867	Thank you. National MP Goran Mihajlovic has the word, but Bojan Mladenovic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the Law on Optical Discs, namely this law prescribes a series of areas concerning optical discs, primarily the production of optical discs, the export of optical discs, the issue of licences, the withdrawal of licences, etc. The first part of the exhibition I'm going to talk about exclusively importing these optical discs. Namely, what or how these optical discs are imported today and what problems the importers of these optical discs are facing. Namely, which started working as early as 2007, in 2008, they functioned normally until 2009. In 2009, huge problems arise for all optical disc importers. In 2009, all importers get from a collectively-produced company called PI, get that they have to pay compensation by CD 30 pairs, and by sold DVD 60 pairs, or then CD cost seven dinars, it was a purchase price, DVD 10 in percentages 4%, 4.3% per CD, and 6% per DVD. You don't know how, why they pay that compensation. It's about compensation for copyright protection. However, what happens to importers, but not all discs for music, for movies, etc. I had a conversation with the disk importers. They pass a large amount of import discs to companies, participate in tenders, these discs go to hospitals, to companies, and go to your ministry, go to the police, go to the military, and they're absolutely not used for music or movies. Then how come that copyright protection fee? They sell, exclusively, means disks that are empty and that won't be used for that kind of thing. Then what happens next? In 2010, the company's "OfPS" exact name appears to be the organisation of a Serbia phonogram producer that also requires the same compensation. What is even worse is looking retroactively, for 2008, 2009, 2010. He's looking three years back and then he's sending invoices. I have a invoice asking for 11 million dinars from one importer in 2009, and for the first quarter of 2010, another two million, that's 13 million dinars. The company hasn't made that much profit since it exists today, and they're asking for so much compensation to be paid. The question arises as to how it is possible for PI and OFFPS to seek the same compensation, especially as the compensation differs. PI is asking for 4 to 6%, and OFFPS is asking for 3% of the purchase value, so it goes to 5, even over 5% if they are not regularly paid. In 2011, the SOKO organisation says, there is no right nor the PI to charge for it, there is no right of the OFS to charge, we alone will charge. General chaos. Here's what the associations say, that's what importers of the discs say. In order for someone in general to be able to charge a special fee it is necessary that there is, above all, a single tariff for the exercise of the right to a special fee. Does such a tariff exist? No, it does not exist, it is not known at what price and how and on what basis these organisations are seeking that compensation from the importer. Then he says that they had negotiations, the negotiations with the three organisations with the representative associations of taxpayers paid a special fee did not result in a single tariff agreement being reached. So they couldn't make a deal, and then how do they regulate it? Simply the importers are looking as low as possible, and the ones who charge are looking for as much as possible. It is a major and legal and economic and social problem faced by these importers. Here's what they still say, I'll tell you a few details. How and how they were asked to do so. "The tariff adopted on the basis of a higher legal act previously applicable to copyright and related rights which, by adopting the currently applicable copyright law, ceases to apply." So, they charged fees according to some laws that had ceased to apply. So, what was the OFPS doing? It says – the tariff charged by the user by the "OFPS" is absolutely inconsistencies with that parameter, as stated in the provision, i.e. multiple of the tariffs of collective organisations of countries whose GDP is approximately the value of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia i.e. the state in the environment and so that the particular fee is calculated in accordance with this tariff is extremely inappropriate and the economically unsustainable burden of that obligor which is entirely inconsistencies with the real economic parameters, because the very height of the special fee is calculated by a tariff far greater than the profit achieved. So they have to pay more than they've earned themselves. Therefore, it is said that the accounting period, one of the accounts set out to them, constitutes a period of time preceding the date of entry into force of that Regulation. What is equally controversial under this association is the amounts given in foreign currency towards the supplier country and the calculation methodology of foreign currency amounts according to the current rate, not according to the rate in force when imports were made, leading to a significant difference in the final amount. On the day of import, the importer closed the supply business in the dinars. Therefore, the calculation can only be based on the rate applicable on the day of import. I ask the Ministers how and in what way have these organizations done these claims of compensation? Who determined the amount of compensation? How it was determined and how the alleged copyright protection fee can be made, especially on those discs that don't go at all for music, or for movies at all, but simply serve to store data that have nothing to do with copyright. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll be brief. We have proposed several amendments, what needs to be corrected in the law itself, first of all in Article 4 of the producer's code, assigned 30 days, the deadline of 30 days of submission of applications. Why on earth does it take 30 days to assign that code? Why can't it be shorter? Let's be a little more expedient and efficient, we've suggested an amendment to make it 20 days. Here, think about it. Also, if the request is not regulated, it states that in writing it provides an invitation to supplement the application, etc., but is not placed within which time period the office is required to re-send the invitation to supplement that request. We've proposed an amendment to make it 15 days. I think it's correct that whoever suggested a request to know what time his office will answer. We also suggested that when it comes to extension, you suggested in Article 11, it should be at least 60 and 30 days before the licence expires. We suggested that it be 20 days before the deadline and thus allowed license holders longer than 10 days. It means they have 40 days to do it. Here I would like to mention these provisions of the law that are not exactly set, which are inaccurate, first of all, I mean Articles 13 and 14, where you put the law, we've always been against you putting "no delays". What does "no delays" mean? So, guess what. Is it day, is it two, is it three? In these cases, we have suggested that it be 24 hours, because we think it's important, means that as soon as possible, when it comes to the withdrawal of licenses, it is to react as soon as possible and be delivered as possible. In Article 16, you also put, among other things, "the organisation for collective exercise of copyright and related rights". The question arises - which organizations? In Article 18, you stated that "a physical person can import optical discs into passenger personal luggage or that they are sent in small shipments". It doesn't mean anything at all. You'd better define some amount or something that's more specific, something that's more detailed to know exactly what a physical person can import. We also oppose these last two members, sublegal acts, that it takes six months for them to be done, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and is applied during the sixth month of the date of entry into force. In one case and another, we suggested it would be three months. If you think this law is urgent, you say it will prevent piracy, don't wait six months, don't wait for 2012 for this law to come to life, let's get this back early in the fall. I suggest you accept these amendments to make the law come to life early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57869	Thank you. The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57870	Thank you, Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Minister, in the framework of today's joint principled search, we are having a debate on two united draft laws, and these are the draft laws on optical discs and the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of the education and education system. It has already been pointed out that these two laws treat a completely different problem and other than the common jurisdiction of the same ministry, it seems to me that these two laws do not have touching points. As is known, before the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one law was in the management of the Ministry of Education, the other in the management of the Ministry of Science and Technology, but as is known, it is now a common ministry, headed by Mr. Obradovic, and that is probably why he is authorised here today in front of the government for both of these laws. But anyway, I'm going to deal with one law and another, but a little less with this first law on optical discs, and more with these other ones on the basics of education and education. The reason is that my esteemed colleague Bojan Mladenovic in the previous discussion very comprehensively explained the basic views of our parliamentary group on this optical disc law. I will deal more with this other law for a simple reason, which is a much larger number of subjects covered by the law on the basis of the education and education system. These are, as is known, preschool children, then high school students, primary school students, and normal parents. There are also some hundreds and more thousands of employees in education institutions, so when we add it all together we see that what is directly or indirectly related to a much, much larger number of users than the optical disc law. The first law of this set, the proposal by law of optical discs is in close contact with several laws that we passed in this assembly last year, and I will remind you, these were the Law on Stamps, the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. All three laws have in some way treated the same problem, which was to protect the copyright of an individual, as a natural person or as a protection of a legal person. In some ways, this law is attached to these three laws, since optical discs are an area where abuse and copyright protection were very often involved. Otherwise, you'll probably agree with the fact that this area of protection of copyright and intellectual rights in these areas is still very chaotic and insufficiently legally arranged. That is why it is necessary to make the same arrangements in a systematic and comprehensive manner. First of all, to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what it is, in the shortest lines, I will give a definition of the optical disc in terms of this law, and the optical disc considers to be a medium on which electronic storage of information is possible, that is to say, some record that is later recorded through the source of light and most often laser, and that is what we use in everyday life as CDs or DVDs of CD ROMs, etc., that I am not now entering that formatting technique. So the optical disc is one name for all these media that are already in use, as well as for potential media that will appear in the near future. Otherwise, it is important to stress that there was no optical disc law in Serbia so far. This is the first version of that law. When it comes to the law on optical discs, there should be two things in the beginning. The first important thing is production, and is thought of empty optical discs, including imports, exports and later traffic and distribution of these blank disks. The second thing was multiplication, i.e. it was authorized to unauthorized review distributions and rent such recorded material. As for the first thing, production, I don't think anyone in Serbia has any reason to worry, because so far, no one has produced or currently produces optical discs, so for that reason they don't have to worry much about the provisions of this law. We only have this distribution of discs, so it's very important and for that reason this second aspect, which is the multiplication and distribution of discs. As for this multiplication and distribution, the fact that another former SFRY signed a convention with the World Intellectual Property Organisation in 1989, which at least declared its readiness to ensure the protection of copyright and intellectual rights at the premises of the former state. It is known, normally, that, in addition to material and immaterial goods, they must be subject to certain protection. That's how in Serbia these so-called so-called "times" came into existence. Trips agreements on trade aspects of intellectual property rights. These agreements, as is known, were issued by the World Trade Organisation, and later the EU directives appeared by the EU and they concern concrete implementation of intellectual property rights in our country. It is just not necessary to lose sight of that Serbia is not a member of either the World Trade Organisation or the EU, because as we can see for free, all this effort and efforts to pass European laws, when neither of us will be and neither will be. However, there is one important difference between us and them, because they have their own production, and they have motives to protect this production by appropriate laws. In our case, there is a real reason to wonder why such laws are passed that protect production that does not exist. On this occasion, I will not talk about the details of this law, because it will be done by my colleagues from the parliamentary group on the day of the debate in detail on the Law on Optical Disks. I will point out only the fact that we have highlighted 13 amendments, which we want to correct certain provisions of this law and that we will inform the citizens of Serbia more about these details when the debate takes place in particular. As for this second law, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, I will remind you that the same was first adopted in 2003, slightly amended and modified in 2004, to be adopted in this final version in 2009, if I am not wrong in August of the month. I will also point out immediately the words Mr Obradovic pointed out on the Education Committee in 2009 that if I am not mistaken, 50% of the provisions of that law were new at that time and 10% of the existing provisions were detained. From there, it can be concluded how quantitative the scope of the amendments to the law was, in 2009, and since time has always been and will always be the best judge, the qualitative meaning and extent of the changes to this law will show direct practice when all the effects and consequences of this law are eliminated. Otherwise, the SRS has always given great importance to the problems of education and education, so, here's the reminders for, I will point out the fact that in 2009, when this law was adopted, we submitted a total of 67 amendments to that law. A small number of amendments have been accepted, the majority has been rejected, and now we have submitted a total of 15 amendments to these amendments, which means that our parliamentary group is still actively participating in the completion and preparation of this law. What we pointed out then, I must point out and plant, and this is our disagreement with the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law, regardless of why the minister has given reasons today why an emergency procedure, we still believe that such a fundamental law should be adopted in some regular procedure and that more quality and comprehensive changes and possible additions are being made. In order not to re-convince all the provisions of the law, I will deal with only these changes. We see from the accompanying material that we have a total of 31 amendments and an addition to the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education, so through 31 members the Proposer has given these amendments and I will first read the structure of the amendments in order to give citizens of Serbia insight into what is actually changing. So, the Law on the Foundations of Education and Education itself has some 13 chapters, 13 chapters, and most of which, even 7 changes and additions were in Chapter 8, it refers to the staff of the institution, so 6 changes were in Chapter 7, these are children's rights and students' rights, obligations and responsibilities, and 4 changes in Chapter 1, basic provisions of this law and the other chapters were fewer objections, i.e. changes and additions. It is clear from here that the largest number of changes are actually related to the staff of the institution for students, their obligations and responsibilities. We have a few basic provisions here. If we move in line, at the very beginning one of the main changes is in Chapter 1, that is Article 1 and it refers to adult education. We heard from the minister today that the draft law for adult education is under way, so if we take into account the famous fact that in Serbia there are 20 and some percent of people with primary school and as many people without primary school, then over 40% of our population is only with primary school or lower, and for that reason we can support the adoption of this adult education law. However, we also have a comment on this Chapter – the basic provisions, and that observation is that, we said that two years ago, which is what basic provisions show only the objectives of education, and they do not see the goals of education. So, in this 31 changes and additions, you can't even see the objectives of intellectual, moral, aesthetic, physical education, and that's, therefore, one big gap that remains in this law and that should certainly be removed in some subsequent correction of this law. Furthermore, another objection we make concerns the work of the National Educational Council. It is likely that members of the Education Committee remember that a year ago, two years ago, we criticised the National Educational Council for failing to report regularly on its work to the National Assembly, which it is legally required to do. After the criticism, the National Council submitted some reports, but those who read saw that they were reports of a formal character, where some chronology of held sessions and meetings of national councils was mostly given, but still there is no one in charge, and this is a strategy of education and education in RS. You see, if either of us were to ask what our national strategy is in education and education for the next 5,10 or 20 years, so hardly anyone could give a complete and precise answer, because these strategies are not really there, and that was certainly the main and primary task of the National Council. Furthermore, from the important changes, I would like to quote another member of the 4th Amendments and Supplements proposal, which is a record of public documents and a register of teacher licenses, educators and professional associates, and it is obvious that this is where one unique information system of education is sought and that it is therefore necessary to form these so-called so-called ". databases in educational institutions in our country will certainly not be an easy job, because it will take time and a lot of effort and efforts to complete it. Furthermore, I would like to single out a 10th member proposing to change the structure of school boards, secondary vocational schools where 3 so-called schools are proposed. a social partner in the field of work, which would be within the jurisdiction of local self-government, so this is something we've talked about many times, and a small door is once again led to politicisation in the work of schools, and it is certain that we don't need this right now and that this would be one solution, which is worse than the previous solution. Further, in Chapter 5, the education and education programme and exams are prescribed all exams that complete a certain level of education, and among other things, the primary school provides for a final exam, in a four-year professional, general, professional or artistic graduation, and then a final exam for secondary vocational education, or a specialist master's exam for craft specialist schools. Two years ago, we made a concrete proposal to first take a few generations to see what the effect of these tests would be in practice, so that only then it would be prescribed as a commitment to some new addition and amendment of the law, but as far as I know, it was probably not done by the Ministry's representatives, and it is certain that after two years we do not have real feedback on the effect of these exams that were introduced. Furthermore, it is also interesting for a member of the 12th to provide for enrolment of children in schools with developmental disturbances to be carried out on the basis of the opinion of the inter-resor board for the assessment of needs, with the mandatory consent of parents. So far, as far as I know, the solution has been that the doctor of the competent home of health gave an opinion to special schools, and now this interested commission is being introduced. In principle, we have nothing against it, but we have one remark that we've highlighted a lot for that opposing category of student population, which is above average talented and particularly gifted children from any area. In the current law on the basics of education and education, there is not one single member who would deal specifically with these children, and these should be students who are the pride of every nation, of every regulated state. There is a legitimate concern that such children can be drowned on average, along with other students. Art. In 19-25, they define changes to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the staff in the institution. There are shortened procedures for the conduct of possible disciplinary proceedings against workers, which is in some way fine, to speed up, and the number of unwarranted absences, as far as student discipline procedures are concerned, from 35 to 25. And that's a discussion, why exactly 25? Because this member in some way gives the students immunity, so that by 25 hours they can be absent unwarranted. Is it necessary to do that and so much, it's a matter of thinking and for some new possible correction. I'd like to give you an interesting detail here. In these 31 changes and additions, you didn't include anything related to school funding. It is known that schools are now funded from the budget and that there is this so-called The captainial formula, which gave some of its effects. But I would like to ask the Minister – what is the effect in the practice of such funding? Because if 96% of the education budget goes to the salaries and earnings of the staff in education, then the question is whether they can meet the other requirements of the institutions. At the very end, I'm going to give some impression of how up-to-date the Ministry of Education was in the implementation of this law. See, that's what a 27th member of these shifts says best. He says in the current version that the minister will bring sublaws within two years of the date of entry into force of the law. And in the newly proposed and amended version, the ministry will pass sublegal acts within three years of the date of entry into force of the law. So, the conclusion is in itself that Mr. Minister is late for the adoption of sublegal acts for about a year, regardless of what you've done today, and you've come to a session 15 minutes before all MPs. It's commendable, but your ministry is a little late. But there's no reason to worry, we're not going to be in Europe that soon anyway, so I guess they'll get there with that, too. I would say to the ruling majority in the end that they are cautious when they adopt certain amendments, that it does not happen in the name of some sublime principles, as was the case with Bologna, to adopt some version of the law on higher education for which practice clearly shows that it is worse than the old version. Be careful, however, and in the day of voting, adopt those amendments that you consider to be in the interest of all subjects of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57871	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Don't have a dilemma that the minister does everything he does for you, and not just for some other Serbia you don't belong to. And you will come to Europe with us. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57872	Thank you, Madam President. I would rely on what Mr. Goran Mihajlovic said. (Dragan Stevanović, from the post: We are already in Europe. ) No, we will all be there together, but it is not the point of being in Europe for the sake of it, but for the sake of Serbia's citizens, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of the law, and for what it is part of the European system of value. But, about that-by that. It's not today's theme. In the part of the law relating to some solutions, and that should be known, that we really apply everything that is part of the educational system of others. But in today's debate, you could see, by various colleagues, when they talk about the same topics, that you have totally the opposite attitudes, and it's interesting that the educators on some of the solutions that we have proposed here in the law are totally in agreement, regarding the establishment of some order and a phase procedure regarding some disciplinary measures. They respect our desire to include parents more actively in the process, that parents know what's going on. Because it is true that a number of parents and children have a silent agreement that bad things are related to school behavior or to attending school are hidden from the public, that they are not spoken of, and even sometimes some parents are accomplices to their children’s behavior. When we build a system, we make it for all of Serbia's children. You know, no law, however it arises, given that every law of general character, can include the whole of the diapazone, let's say, the person it applies to. Since this is a law on the foundation of a system of education and education, it refers to categories of students from first grade to fourth grade high school. When we predicted some solutions related to the disciplinary process itself, we tried to find solutions that would be applicable to everything. Unless we are the solutions, and the MPs who have submitted the amendments propose something better, of course we will accept such solutions. Because in previous years, when we talked about other laws, we absolutely accepted every good solution. I hope you've seen that there is absolutely good will on our part and that we don't care at all about who the proposing is, but what it says in the amendment. I'd like to say a few more words. As taught by what happened over the past two years, we have proposed these solutions to the educational and disciplinary procedure and measures. So, the procedure and the measures. Because we did have certain situations and it proved that the solutions at the time were not good. I, as a minister, am not running away from our responsibility for this whole situation, because we have proposed a law. For example, it has been shown that binding the number of classes to a certain extent created one situation that there was a large number of unwarranted classes and that there was no other measure, then that number of unwarranted classes would be extended indefinitely. We had a situation and an atmosphere at school that just didn't exist in class. I guess it makes sense that the education process is so well-conceived that it's primarily for every student to learn, not to run away from school. If he's running away from school, of course, the question is, why is he doing it? The state needs to create conditions to learn, so if there are some reasons that are not justified, then it can react, since there have been some procedures and behaviors where some students have caused interference and other students to learn. Anyway, we've been trying to do this all the best we can. I'm allowing us to discuss together some more of the solutions that are proposed here. It's not our intention to give priority to neither students nor teachers. We're all part of the education system, both of us, each in our own way. We have to figure it out sooner or later. That's why it's important that we all get involved. You have seen through these solutions that we offer to insist that the parent be introduced by the director or teacher if the child does not attend and if he has made 15 unwarranted lessons, that he may be informed of the parent, that he may act. So that it doesn't happen, if there's any educational discipline, it can be fixed. That should be emphasized. Such a system is created that, if a mistake is made, not into the motives of doing so, it can always happen that a child is being seduced, but that there is a possibility that in the course of later schooling, it can be corrected. Of course we'll take care of the deadlines. If some deadlines are too long, then we will shorten that deadline, so that through amendments and these issues we will resolve. What I want you to know about the issues raised here, fellow Petronijevic asked a question, our intention is to pass by the end of the term of office of this government a law on elementary school, a law on high school, a law on adult education, and we will adopt a strategy. Since you remind me of the strategy all the time, I must say that the first sentence I said as Minister of Education before here tomorrow will be three years, it was that during the term of office of this government we will work to improve the material and status position of employees and adopt a strategy. I didn't promise anymore. I didn't promise anymore, because now the material position of employees depends on the country's economic situation, and the country's crisis is like that. What I can say as a minister, we've made sure that he doesn't be enlightened in any way of firing, that employees receive salaries regularly for three years, and that together with the social partners and trade unions, we're looking for a solution for social status and we're sharing as much money as we have. But I wasn't in mine, so I can tell you what we can't do about it as a minister of broad arms. So I said, and we'll have a strategy. I'm telling you, I told you this morning, I hope this prized home will also be in a position to get acquainted with the strategy, if not through the Assembly's obligation to discuss it, then we can organize a public reading, so MPs can tell their own court about it. That's our intention. I want to tell you, since you object to our delays in legislative activity, we've brought in about 120 sublegal acts so far. This, unfortunately, speaks of something else, that in the years before it was done to the extent to which it was necessary, but we have 120 sublegal acts, four laws, changed the Law on Higher Education, now we are changing this one and we are going to pass these three laws which, in four years of office, you will admit to saying a very large legislative activity, where, logically, we are absolutely open to any kind of criticism that we can improve the law if we can. Free textbooks - I mention this for a simple reason as well as about these things. Does it make sense that someone would be against the project to have the state give him free textbooks? It doesn't make sense, but it happens in practice. Because you want a better idea than the state to give students free textbooks. It's Professor Micunovic's idea, we accepted it in the ministry, it's simply a government project. I never speak to the Minister or the Ministry, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and now, on September 1st, 230,000 students at the level of all Serbia will receive free textbooks, first, second and third classes. In Belgrade, believe it or not, 92% of parents have declared themselves free of charge textbooks, and when you open some media, you might read so many criticisms sometimes that a person really wonders if it's possible for parents to be against that concept, I don't want to talk about educators, because when some educator is against that concept, then I really have to ask myself what the motive is? An educator shouldn't be making that kind of question in that part. It is his that, if the textbook is of quality, and he chooses it, he transfers his knowledge, which he owns as a teacher, to the student, that we have a student who gets that knowledge and that he can apply it tomorrow. We're already slowly moving the system forward and looking for responsibility. The very fact that 92% of parents have declared themselves in Belgrade, a survey conducted by the City Assembly and the mayor, shows how positive the relationship is. I am fully convinced that in the rest of Serbia there is this positive relationship. What some people express their differences with it, that's another kind of story. I'm telling you this in the context of the fact that you can't always find everything. You don't have to. Democracy is the right to diversity, what certain philosophers say, to conduct dialogue, to talk to someone who does not think like you, but the point is to find some solution that is best for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Inclusion, since there were questions about it, is going well. You can always find individual cases that try to challenge the concept, but it is undeniable that with this law in 2009, we objectively introduced the inclusion in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, and that it works well. It's not true that we were unprepared. For example, there's a school in Novi Sad where the inclusion lasts five, six years, and before the law was passed, so it wasn't a problem, and what would be a problem when the law was passed. We have faced the behavior of some people, where they are not ready to accept that kind of children to be an integral part of the department, because for that type of children an individual educational program is being created, such as a special individual program, a colleague of Mihajlovic, for talented children. So you're wrong when you say there isn't. In Article 77. The law establishing a system of education and education is said to create a special individual programme for extremely gifted children. As for the question of the student parliament, it is a question mentioned by counterpart Popovic, we will see it through the amendments. It's our intention to make a law that will be as good as possible. As far as the questions raised by counterpart Bojan Mladenovic are concerned, the implementation of the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the collection of the so-called. special fees charged by special organisations. They themselves set tariffs on the 2009 Law. Under the applicable Law of Compensation is determined by negotiations between users and collective organisations. If there is no agreement, then the Commission shall make decisions. He dedicated most of his presentations to applying the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The optical disc law doesn't apply to that area. You have seen that there have not been many objections, and these laws that you have submitted, when I say you, I think of all the MPs, some of them we will accept, because we have already discussed that it makes sense, as well as the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems. Dear fellow Members of the People, our intention is to pass a law that will solve the problems we have seen. About the urgency, it's true, there are two reasons: the start of the school year and the deal with the unions. That's what I'm saying as a minister and I'm not running away from it. If we weren't today, we'd be in July. If we weren't in July, then we'd be in August, and then there's the question and the work of the National Assembly. I don't think any of us mind that this law is on the agenda and that we are all in a position to present our opinions and propose the best solutions. We will look at all these solutions and propose to the National Assembly for adoption, in order to get a law that, with effect from 1 September, will give some better solutions in the next school year. I expect that during the fall we will discuss both the law on elementary school and high school and adult education, and then maybe we will go back to some of these topics, see if the solutions are good or not. In any case, you can see that we are working in the best way, with the aim of making solutions best for both students and parents and employees and, of course, for the educational system and for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57873	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs. I will not talk about the Law on Optical Disks, because that was very effective before me by my colleague Bojan Mladenovic. On the other hand, I don't see any compatibility, or the interconnection of these two laws. I'm gonna concentrate on this law that's close to me, because I'm a man who comes from education and I'm gonna talk about this law. As my colleague Goran Mihajlovic said, perhaps this law should not have been passed by an emergency procedure but should have been allowed into the regular procedure. I agree with that, but it's still the most important thing for the law to reach September 1st, so, by the start of the new school year, when it's time. I hope that the situation will not happen again from two years ago, when we passed the basic version of this law, whose search in parliament was held in July, but something happened – the ruling majority then slightly reduced the gas on the way to Europe and the law began to apply only on September 8th, and how great difficulties and problems in all school institutions, because we all know that I do not repeat that the school year began on September 1st, and the law came into force on September 8th. To go back to the law itself, although it may seem so at first glance that these are only cosmetic changes of this law, I would not say so, because the law itself has 31 members, and it says first of all that this previous law, which we passed two years ago, had a large number of shortcomings, which you admit, and here it was admitted by the minister himself, because the practice of some things was denied and it stands in reason. No matter what I say, it must still be admitted that this law has some improvements. Now we're gonna take a walk through this law. I'll talk here about both the good and the bad of this law. For example, a member of the law that regulates the takeover of employees between institutions is not clear enough, although, in its essence, this thing does not have to be negative, because if this member of the law is literally looked at, then it can be seen that to carry out this process, it can be concluded that all employees agree within a collective, which is never practically feasible, rather than seeking only the consent of those employees to whom this law applies. That is why, in this sense, this SRS member intervened with the amendment and requested its erasure, precisely because of these inaccuracies that I was talking about. The law also provides for the modification of certain things relating to the choice of teachers, associates, educators, etc. I will say that the legislator had good intentions here, because indeed in this area it should be intervened, but unfortunately, it didn't go to the end here, there should be some firmer, more reliable mechanisms to ensure that in the selection of teachers, educators, co-workers, as little mistakes as possible in the selection of people, because yet these people work with children, and any mistake later can cost both school and education at all. Not only that, I think when it comes to this thing here, the law has not touched at all one very important thing. I think the school directors and the institution should be given greater authority to give some people who turn out not to have the education for them, to be thanked by the directors, to recommend that they look for another profession, and that other competent people come to their places. Of course, I agree that someone can be a good mathematician, a good physicist, a chemist, an engineer, but at the same time they don't have to be a good pedagogue and in this way they'd avoid some unpleasant situations that we've had during both this and every school year in several places in Serbia. Almost every school, I will set an example of any school in Serbia, and in almost every school there are some of the teachers, teachers with more units or maybe a few teachers, a small group of teachers with more units than all the other teachers combined. It is one of the pains of all schools and the pain of our education and I think that the Ministry and people who work and service the Ministry of Education must deal with this, because they are practically the same people and these are the problems that are so far and so far insolvent. I didn't see any of these things coming out of the law, although I said there were some good intentions in choosing people to get into school. That is why one of the most important tasks of the directors should be to make the right choice of employees, so that mistakes in the future are kept to a minimum. In law, it is a good thing that a member who refers to the responsibility of students and conducts educational and disciplinary proceedings against students is changing. Unfortunately, however, it did not go to the end again. This thing is done wrong again. The law stipulates that an educational and disciplinary procedure cannot be conducted without prior hearing of the students and taking his written statement, i.e. without the presence of his parents or guardians, in the case of a minor. It's all right. But I must remind you that practice knows other situations as well. We have many opportunities that school, or educational workers, are not in a position to take neither a written statement nor to listen to a student, nor to contact or talk to his parents, or guardians. What I'm talking about is particularly in high school, because there are a lot of cases, students enroll in the first, second or next grade high school, go a few days, a week, take confirmation that regular students, use that certificate for child support, transportation, family pension, or any other possibility provided by law and no longer appear at school. This student no longer comes to school throughout the year, and you are not able to kick him out of school, because you are unable to listen to him and take a written statement, because he is no longer in school, because he is not the main motive for going to school, to continue schooling, but his main motive was to use the school for this privilege and benefit that I was talking about. Then, throughout the year in the journal, in the absence section, the name of one or more students is being dragged through, and this is a particularly common example in the Roma population and the school is powerless and therefore the SRS intervened with the amendment that, in certain cases in these situations, I cannot remember everything here, and some similar opportunities, that a disciplinary action can be taken against students after a certain and certain time when it is obvious and clear that his hearing cannot be carried out, a written statement from him cannot be taken and that his parents cannot be reached. I said, the SRS intervened here with the amendment and I would ask both the minister and his associates, Mr Kostic and Mitrovica to take care of this. Again, when I'm missing this school, and some of my colleagues have mentioned it, there's an inaccurate provision that says -- if there's no time to justify the absences, that word is mildly impeccable, it can be a day, two days, five days, and I think it should also be corrected in law. As for keeping records and data covering these records, I personally believe that too many data are being sought here. We see that the amendments and additions of this minority law member and base the greatest attention, if you look at the law of the highest text refer to these records. Of course, I understand the intention, and I need to establish a record. There's supposed to be a database, but there's really too much data here that's absolutely unnecessary. On the one hand, there's a whole army from the school of people who need to work on this data. Imagine schools with a thousand and more students, and we have schools like that. That's where his parents have to be picked up, and then his dad's grandfather's dad's dad's dad's dad's dad's dad's dad's dad's dad's, grandparents's mom's mom's mom's name, mother's maiden name after father, girl's mother after mother. Believe me, I've worked these cases, so I know that. There's been an attempt to do something with EIDS to do, there's something to care about, but it's not all that bad there either. There's good stuff here. In this record and in this database, we need to make some selection because there may be major abuses in that database. Namely, a large number of people, a large number of factors have a complete social picture of each student, and if so, then at school will always or at the institution, speak at school because I come from school, but in some other institution, someone who will always want to abuse that social image of a student and his parents or his associate will seek a certain counterservice for themselves. You brought back one thing I told you two years ago. It refers to restoring the possibility of maintaining employees in certain cases and beyond the prescribed standard. I have to remind Minister Obradovic, if he remembers, two years ago, I explained on behalf of the SRS that basic version of the law, and I just cited an example that, let's say, there is a deficit of one interest, it applies especially, not in Belgrade, in most parts of Serbia, so I set an example of the Toplic district and, say, in the secondary professional traffic school there is absolutely no traffic engineers, and today, in almost every smaller place in Serbia, we have such a situation with mathematics professors. It's also a deficiting profession, and that's why it's a good thing you've given this opportunity back. With all that I've been saying, I don't want to doubt it, I want to believe it, but not all the proper rules have yet been passed, especially the evaluation rule, and without that evaluation rule, everything that's done isn't properly evaluated. This law gives greater importance and closer regulation of adult education, and we see that this law is soon to be passed. It's okay. I have to say, this thing has never really come into practice, I know it from experience, and I don't think it's going to be after this law on adult education that we're talking about here. Remember, we also formed the Educational Council for adult education. We have seen that these people are still not getting paid, although I think this thing is needed for Serbia, because there are a large number of illiterate people in Serbia, but here we need to approach these things even closer and more thoroughly because in practice it has not produced any results. I would have ended my discussion. Let's see what the effects of reforming this government's education are, or I'll go back to the previous governments before this. Despite the fact that educational workers have been dissatisfied with Minister Obradovic for a long time, I know they are trying to do something, this reform began in 2003 and aimed at increasing the efficiency and quality of education. Here, eight years have passed since then. It's a period to finish one complete elementary school and results not that are not satisfactory but even I think they're devastating. Today, after eight years, apart from the bright examples of talented students, who won first places and medals in various world, European and other competitions, we have students who have less knowledge than they did eight years ago and who have a weaker attitude towards school and even towards education than it was eight years ago. Of course, this may not only be the reason for the reform of education, there are other factors – the general picture of society, the economic crisis, the imperceptibility, the inability to hire. What I was saying about elementary and high school, it's the same thing for colleges. Today, students from our colleges may come out with a higher average score than they used to be, maybe they're finishing college for a shorter time than they used to be, but I'm pretty sure they're coming out with less knowledge than they were when I was in college, people before me or after me, but that's still the fact, and that's the situation with getting academic titles and academic titles. Today this thing has also devalued and it is literally possible to easily and very quickly acquire an academic title – Dr, mr, etc., especially at private universities. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57875	The People's Messenger, Radisa Ilic, has the words. Your MP group has 14 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two draft laws ahead of us, and before I say anything about them, Mr Minister, since you mentioned Serbia's entry into the EU several times today and our stay there, as well as the EU Presidency, as regards that we will be better there, I am now asking you on behalf of the Serbian citizens, and you to answer me on behalf of the Government, will you continue to be in the current EU entry positions if this is a condition for recognising Kosovo's independence? Now I'd go back to these laws. As for the Law on Optical Disks, we will start with the very reasoning of the motions for this law, which has already been expected and seen for many laws that have come before the MPs in the past few years, the promoter informs us that the Republic of Serbia has made a statement in the WTO accession process that it will pass this law on to the EU and US insistence. It wouldn't be any wonder if most WTO states didn't have such a law. It means they weren't subject to this procedure. Now, when there must be something that has to be done, that is, by the persuasion of democracy, humanity and charity, I mean the United States, I'm surprised you didn't take into account their law and simply rewritten it. But they don't have it, but that's why they have experience preventing piracy. Believe it or not, legal solutions from the Philippines, Hong Kong and Montenegro have been used to draft this law. If we have to rewrite the laws, we'll probably get where they are. You are probably aware that there are certain laws, regulations and solutions in Serbia concerning these issues and protection against piracy, and if someone wants to deal with this type of crime, they would have enough legal coverage without this law to act. I'll just list a part of those regulations and regulations. Some have been brought back to the SRJ or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, where the subject is just optical disks. It is the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property, the Law on the Protection of High-Technology Crime, the Rule on the Management of the Catalogue of Computer Programmes, the Computer Identification, Computer Equipment and Software, the Regulation on Conditions to meet the copies of copyright and related rights items to be deposited. It's point 7. It's about optical discs. In addition to all this, we should get to know the public in Serbia that there are no producers of blank optical discs and they are imported. So, those who insist on adopting this law in the Serbian parliament, they protect in other interests, not ours. Just because someone has a license to do the job doesn't mean there won't be any who are illegally involved in this activity. This law will not prevent them from doing so. I repeat, so far the legal solutions have been sufficient to confiscate and destroy pirate productions, to process the organisers and distributors of this material. In addition to these, I would say, the purpose laws and regulations, and the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia itself, you stated in your reasoning, foresees criminal responsibility under article 199 for the act of unauthorized multiplication of other people's copyright. In all, though someone likes the competent authorities as an illegal manufacturer of optical discs, i.e. a distributor and someone who puts them on the market, it will not be a problem for him to pay the fine you have provided, given that millions of euros are turning in this business. What the SRS thinks about this problem is this. To avoid confusion, we are absolutely against every type of piracy and abuse of copyright in all social activities and areas. We believe that in Serbia the laws on which we can successfully deal with these problems are in force. Finally, we have to fulfill every desire of both the EU and the United States and even this issue. As regards this Law on Education, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, we know what changes this law had to endure, that is, because of the EU Directive, and not only him, but also the other laws in the field of education. The changes you're proposing are probably field suggestions, but also some new alignment with European standards. At first, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, since you have provided for amendments in Article 12 relating to the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, did the National Council need to give any opinion on these amendments and additions, since that kind of thing is in their job description? I'm asking you this, Mr. Minister, because in today's media, and you've probably read the news, there's been news that members of the National Educational Council have been fiercely protesting, because the amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System have been found on the agenda of the Assembly beyond their remarks on this text. The information was published in today's "Kuru". The National Educational Council considers that the law on the basis of which the Council is obliged to consider, take views and give an opinion to the Ministry of Education and Science on the aforementioned bill. As for the part of the law relating to the responsibility of the pupils and the disciplinary action against the employee, some facts should be more realistic and more serious and drastic criminal measures should be implemented. I'll only give you two information that will best show the state of the teachers, as well as the students. According to a survey conducted, in a solid sample of educational workers, there was a devastating result that says that every sixth teacher, a professor, at least once was a victim of student violence. There have been cases of injury, arson, harassment, threats, even life-threatening injuries. In addition to this, another study carried out in Vojvodina showed that each tenth high school student carries some kind of weapon at school. In particular, right in Novi Sad, a student is being punished for wearing locusts, only by reproof. The reason is that He did not endanger or harm anyone. I'd say he didn't get to hurt anyone. So until he gets a chance, like that martyr in the King who stabbed his teacher, he just got reproof. It is no breach of obligations, it is a crime – carrying a knife, perhaps a gun or a bomb at school, even by minors who are prone to conflict reactions and effects. It's a job for the police. Reproof comes to him as a reward. Not only are they students of violence, but they can also be educators, unfortunately. Many media cases of abuse of students by teachers and teachers testify to that. This is my reason to comment on Article 142 of the basic law and these new positions of 8, 9 and 10 relating to the launch of a disciplinary procedure. It's amazing that someone can get cheaply away from the responsibility of, say, an educator who abuses a student and who has been so delayed by a disciplinary procedure for more than six months, so that the conduct of the procedure itself becomes obsolete. I also wonder if the ministry should also be asked – who is that director or someone else on his behalf who may become adept in the disciplinary process. It is precisely against such a ministry that it must act vigorously and vigorously, because if the abused child, or student, is not protected in this degree, quickly and efficiently, the consequences can be tragic. We had cases where after two, three years, teachers who molested students, against whom discipline was conducted, had become obsolete, for which children experienced trauma, had returned to work, and that was the same school. They often had help from the judiciary. Mr. Minister, in the end, I'd like to ask you a question, but also a suggestion. You've already talked about it, and so has colleague Vojić-Markovic, who refers to the implementation of the programme of inclusion. That's what you've given a lot of arguments a little bit, which has been in effect since last year, and that concerns students' education, children with special needs who started teaching with other children. Mr. Minister, what are the results of this program? It is the general opinion of educators, that this programme has been quickly entered, without pre-prepared working conditions, without appropriate professionals, such as educators and psychologists. Such programmes have come to life in EU countries and Western European countries. In particular, in Norway, but not in full form, but all the necessary conditions were previously provided. We need to realistically look at the situation and whether this program is helping or helping those children. At seminars, educators who were lecturers presented the problems observed. They could not get a concrete answer, how they should have acted in concrete situations. I know you've had to implement this program, but you must also accept serious objections, based on the experience of teachers and teachers. Members of the SRS, members of the Education Committee, would like to get an insight, if possible and if possible, of the latest seminars dedicated to the implementation of this programme, if any, where all the difficulties and problems that the law did not foresee and which were not regulated even by sublegal acts, because it seems that no one has tried to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57877	Eleven minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, so Nikola Žutić. They're not present. National MP Milan Knezevic. You have 12 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57878	Since I'm obviously the last speaker tonight, I'm in a situation where I'm sure I'm going to repeat some of the things that my fellow Members of the other parliamentary groups have brought out. These changes and additions of laws have few members – 31 members. So, and the remarks that have been made in the debate so far are similar and would probably have been similar remarks if they had participated in the discussion and MPs of the ruling majority, since some of them are truly objective. Before I begin to comment specifically on some of the elements of these supplements, I must comment. Whenever there is any law here that concerns education, education, education, I am always in doubt, we all know that such laws are crucial to one society and that the adoption of these laws is a very complex interaction. On the one hand, students and students, on the other hand, their parents, and then teachers and directly and indirectly from the very state and society. So by adopting these laws, it is an interaction of all these interests that exist in education. Maybe I'm a little old-fashioned, so what I'm saying may not even fit, I still think that every country has to build a system of much greater respect for teachers through legal acts. Much greater respect, respect for the rights of a child, respect for the rights of students, religious rights, all the rights that we have voted here and which are generally recognised and the rights that a democratic society must respect. When we speak in concrete law, it takes a little more, because 99% of teachers may be doing a responsible job. These individual cases that occur and are always shown in the media do not represent the teacher population, because the highest percentage performs in a safe and safe way in these difficult, economic and social conditions in which work is done not only by their own but by all structures, so they do it properly. On the other hand, it's also the highest percentage of students and students within the limits so let's say the same thing in 90%, maybe in smaller percentages, but that's 2%, 97-96% of them are children with some minor normal defects, and yet those drastic examples we read again in the media don't present that young population of students and students. And now every law that we're talking about is really a risk to me, and when we talk about it, it's here, and one chapter is disciplinary measures for these drastic examples, because for that absolute majority and teachers in the first place, and the student ends up in regular procedures. So, to discuss such changes in the 31st term is very difficult, I don't doubt the good intentions of telling the ministry that these 31 members have come out of the need for realisation, as then the union's application, compliance with other laws, so that these are certainly some changes that need to improve the quality of this law. Now I'd like to go on about some concrete things to say, I'm sure I'll repeat myself in some of the findings because if those who followed her discussed things, we'd overlap a lot in our remarks. I'd like to start here first, because according to statistical data, when we discussed this law two years ago, when you officially gave the data as much as there is with the basic, the imperfect and the middle, it's more than 40% of the population. So it's certainly also very important law, I just personally think when I look at this formula, if we want to improve the law inadequately, I think it can be better. You say - the specifics of performing the work of education. This specificity of performance I think is unnecessary, every action has its specifics. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a linguist, but I'm sure enough to say – the actions of adult education in the education and education system are governed by a special law. When we say, specificity refers to each profession, so I don't think this part is technically good. Then the same thing, the remark, I wasn't at the debate in principle, then it's a formal technical remark again, when you gave the database in Article 10a, and you made a nice statement of what the facility is, how it runs the base, so the database represents the set, so the records, not to mention. You have the article, 10b, again you give the first two points of data on what it is and the data on children and students. The purely technical these two positions belong more, looking at the concept of the law or amendments you have made, belong to this Article 10a. So absolutely the first two attitudes give some definition of what these data on children and institutions mean, so this part is kind of a 10b that doesn't come in and doesn't belong to this concept. Also, when you're here on the data, now I'm a little bit specific, an observation in Article 10b, "determining the educational status of children and students, gathering" you specify all the data you need to get into that database. I think you've made a failure in addition to the exams, the classification periods, you know, a certain number of children participate in the competitions. If we run the database, every student who participates in the competition should pay attention to the prizes and praises that some students win in the competition, which is their effort, and so you would, in this way, already when you talk about these data concerning children and students, complete absolutely all the data you will be running in the database. The next thing I know, I repeat here, it's about a chapter that's about the rights of a child and a student is the responsibility of a student. I have one question, Minister, when this difference was made, in the previous law there was an evaluation from sixth to eighth grade now changing from fifth to eighth, what is crucial? By my logic, first and fourth grade could represent one whole and then fifth and eighth grade. What is this explanation, based on which research is the fifth class of habitation, adapting to a new teaching, you know all those kids when they go to school grow up with an environment exposed to television and many movies that have aggressive behavior, so that they are brought up and operate both environments and families and schools to their education. So, I don't know in which way such a single question, I suppose, is based on the opinion of the appropriate educators, but I'd still like to hear an explanation for what it's done like that? Which was six, and now five, and it's not four, because it's some whole. Those who take part in the education, I repeat it to the fourth and from the eighth to the eighth, so it's an observation. I also repeat my objection to this situation in this disciplinary responsibility of moving to school. I don't think this has been properly solved. I probably don't mean you as a minister yourself, but I'm sure it's a very delicate problem when it comes to moving from another school. You have a condition here, and what if a parent doesn't agree to cross a child or what if they don't want a guardian, that's what others have mentioned. How to solve such a problem that may happen as we have a small percentage of aggressive teachers and children, so this will be rare, but it can appear as a problem. I admit if someone asked me, I wouldn't know how to resolve the situation, but I would ask for an opinion. So this part is an observation, this condition is really this way, because it creates the possibility of whether you're going to convince, whether in some way you're going to talk, negotiate, pressure to transfer and continue schooling to another school of students, which is to move. In an appropriate way, as an observation, the same may be from you, and perhaps the expert team proposes this in the application of teachers. You know, sometimes when colleges were enrolled, and especially when it's stupid what I say in medicine, you were asked medically for confidence that you were capable, you went and this one just wrote a doctor's certificate. Unfortunately, it was not to look at anyone, because we also have the Law on Children with special properties and the Law on disabled people that they can study, adapt, that they join the community. What are these psychophysicals, and how can the Bureau check the psychophysical abilities of a teacher? (President: National MP, the time available for your parliamentary groups has been used. ) Just a minute, thank you, I expected nothing new, because I would repeat the things the previous MPs had said. I support these discussions and objections, I think they are justified and that there is certainly something through the amendments you can adopt and further improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57879	Thank you. This has exhausted the list of MPs declared for the word, and by order also from parliamentary groups, and since there are no more reported and before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Radica Jocic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, four minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57880	Thank you. At the end of the debate, I'd like to draw attention to a few things that I hope we've all agreed on today. I would ask the Minister to consider the amendments that are well under consideration in these areas, which are, for example, the phasing out of the educational disciplinary procedure with the mandatory involvement of parents and, of course, the gradual monitoring of the effects of these measures, so that, for example, during a school year, these measures can be used, in fact, to see the effect of these measures in the students. We agreed, it seems to me, almost everyone today is that moving students to elementary schools from one school to another is very complicated and needs to be precise with a few more things. Here's a former colleague who mentioned a very disagreement between parents and a possible discrepancy of the school to move to. Then I would especially point out that it is a place where you can spot quality and improve the quality of teaching staff at school. I think it's only in the beginning, because neither the directors nor the employment departments, I don't think they're in a position to adequately assess the psychophysical abilities reported to the competition. I think we've paid a little attention both in law and today to perfecting teachers. I would agree, it is mentioned today that the highest percentage of school teachers is actually enthusiasts who do their job the best they can, and that only a small number of those against whom discipline is being conducted, and we talked about it the most. Also, I don't think it's necessary to pay attention to private classes and somehow introduce them into legal norms. I think a lot more attention needs to be paid to what can be achieved in class, or in those regular flows, and this has never been something popular, and what it costs so much, it's already a special story. I'd like the result of the admission exam, which this year average, seems to me, 13.45 was also for Serbian and mathematics, and of course it gets better every year. I don't think giving students and tests and solutions in advance leads to any great quality. In 2009, I debated that if the area of task is known, there is no need for students to have solutions before that. It seems to me that the most important thing to do is that they try to memorize it. I'd like the government to do a lot more to make students who finish high school, and even later colleges can, with their knowledge that they've acquired, the sooner they get to take advantage of and apply it, and not to get into a situation where they're not sure what to commit, because what they might like most to study and want and find themselves in it doesn't lead to that security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57881	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right from article 96 who wants a word? Does the minister want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57882	Just a few sentences, since I've talked about this law several times today. First of all, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to thank all of you for participating in the debate on these two important documents in the field of science and education. I find it interesting that the document on the Optical Disc Act, which, let me put it this far the most, was least spoken. It is by number and volume of pages and content, however, a special law, and unfortunately it has been talked about a little. I'm saying, unfortunately, from the government's point of view, I could say that in an excellent sense, it was said, but I'm always surprised by the different opinion on the content of the law, so let's see if we face opinions. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it is also interesting that the most important provisions regarding protection, data on the protection of a person, were done together with the Trustee, and unfortunately, there were not many words. Looks like we did a good thing here again, as soon as that wasn't what we were talking about. Other things for working relations, which has mentioned several MPs, and you have seen, most agree that we have found a measure for the problems we have faced in practice and educational disciplinary measures. I'd really like to tell you two more words. It's an accurate finding that even the largest number of children I have to say, do what needs to be done, learn and try to be as good students as possible, and that's what most teachers do. The law is always such an act that has to or should solve as many questions and problems facing every education system, including ours. So with these changes and additions, we solve the issue of the problems we've been facing for the past two years. I want you all to understand, and I hope I've convinced you through these solutions, and you'll see through the amendments, that we want to find the best solutions and those amendments that are to be said in the spirit of the law and possibly be with ideas compared to what's been proposed. We will accept them independently of who suggested them. We want the law to be as good as possible. It seems to me that my colleague Ilic mentioned the issue of inclusion. The inclusion has been going on for two years. It has proved to be both justifiable and good, which does not mean that in all schools it gives good results, but the fact is that we also prepared teachers and printed certain manuals and several different kinds of educations, included a large number of populations and prepared teachers. There was a first year's cry, and then it was quiet. After two years of experience of applying the inclusion we have a lot of experience that we can give all the grades at some seminar, and possibly one of the participants was not in a position to give an answer. This does not mean that this answer does not exist in the Ministry regarding the issue. At the very end, we approached a change in the concept of small graduation, just for the very reason that students would start creating a situation to start thinking about what they're learning. The concept of small graduation implies this, so every year the increase in the number of tasks, unknown tasks. This year it was 25%, next year it's going to be 50, then 75, and then the fourth year it's going to be 100% and the kids and teachers are going to start working differently and the material. Accumulated knowledge will know that it applies, tasks will be so conceived that all knowledge from previous years will have to be applied when the final exam comes. For us older, it's not unusual because in our day it was a completely unknown category to have pre-known tasks and solutions, so we knew to find the answer to those questions. Why don't we get the kids ready, too. In all countries, or in most countries of the world, it is quite logical that from the first to all later classes there is a system of testing so that children prepare for a constant check of their own knowledge and it will be an integral part of our education system. I'm convinced even by this, I say either there are two options, or the tasks were easy or the students were really learning. I didn't hear, in any case, teachers positively expressed themselves according to the content of the assignments, which were at this year's small graduation, say they were innovative, that they were first conceived in a way that encouraged interest and students, that they began to think about the content of the assignments and that they were very inventive, that the students wanted to solve it. The results are good. Of course, I'd like to be better every year, as were the good results when we did pizza tests international last year, I have to say that it's known, reading literacy, we've scored 40 points better, and the effort we've made as a state has been very small, and there it insists on applied knowledge. We have reduced illiteracy from 52% to 31%, we have increased scientific and mathematical literacy by seven to eight points and within the OECD which organises pizza tests, it is said that in 10 years, in the application of pizza tests, no country has shown such progress between two cycles in points, not in rankings, and there I have to be very clear and precise. So there's a lot of work to do and of course we're ready for every good idea. What's the point? Whoever it is, and it's always me as a minister, and this government doesn't have that kind of obstacle, to say it publicly, is the point, political stability is needed, and there needs to be a clear concept of what the state wants with it. When there is political stability, a clear concept, then many things are more easily realized, because that political stability is needed, if you want the same political concept, when it comes to the legislative area, the work of the National Assembly, when it comes to education, when it comes to infrastructure. If there is no political stability, nothing can be done in these three areas, and each government probably brings its concept with it. We've laid some groundwork in the field of education, we'll do more, so we're ready to face the consequences of that, and hopefully we'll be in a position to continue this business and look for good solutions together with you. My colleague Ilic asked, concerning the National Educational Council, I am obliged to give that answer, and we have provided the National Educational Council with the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the basic system of education and education on June 23rd, in printed form, and on June 25th in electronic form. They held a session on June 28th and on our surprise, did not put into the draft agenda this text that you received, or what you discussed. It's part of our reality. In any case, MPs have submitted a large number of amendments, it seems to me 53 or 54, we will see which amendments can improve the text of the law and accept them. I'll tell you right away, and there's no reason, it's true, we've been having talks with the unions, because our unions are social partners in this business and they represent employees and employees are an important part of the education system as well as children. We want to find the best solution for both children and employees, and also for each other to be in the role of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-06-0.u57883	Since no one is answering the question anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. This concludes for today's work, which continues tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., on Thursday 7 July, with a joint principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security, and a regular debate on the regular annual report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as a debate on the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data for 2010, with the attached proposals for the conclusions of the relevant committees. So point 6 is the debate on the law, and the joint principled search includes reports by the trustees on the protection of equality. Our work provides for tomorrow to do a search both by law and by common principle debate, so you know. Definitely, we'll be working on Friday, July 8th. I now invite you to join us at 19.30, so the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is making a reception for the 56 OSCE delegations who worked at the Sava Centre today and will visit the National Assembly. Thank you, Minister, thank you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 77 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs, who are present with their identification cards in the electronic voting system, please insert the cards into the electronic system. I find that 85 MPs are present in the electronic system and that a number of MPs are present in the hall without identification in the electronic voting system. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position - the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and the information and explanations needed to achieve the function of the MP. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to hold a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session and before the transition to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) Please log in to the electronic system with a request for a word. National MP Smiljana Milisavljevic. Here you go.
