ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53807	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. While the quorum is being determined, I would like to inform the MPs that we have asked that the sound you hear in the hall that comes from works on the National Assembly building be different by organising work on the second part of the building so as not to interfere with the presentation of the MPs. You'll have patience until that happens, please. I find that at this point in the Hall of 85 Members of the People and that there are a Rules of Procedure established conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would remind you that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position, that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to carry out the parliamentary function. Exceptionally, and this is the second position under which the session of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group or the president of the parliamentary group, of the position of the 1st member may be held at the session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. The first to be declared to use his right under Article 286th MP Nikola Krpic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53808	Dear and esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Comic, on behalf of the PUPS, I am tasked with asking one question to the health minister, Professor Zoran. Namely, what it's about. The management of the U.S. Health Centre in the Kingdom cannot be blamed tomorrow for what is not his job or his responsibility to work and for the situation in which the royal hospital, or internal hospital, was hit by an earthquake, as all Serbian citizens know, on November 3rd 2010. What's this about? The hospital was forced to evacuate about 200 hospital beds with patients immediately after the earthquake, which was done. The internal hospital building remained empty, empty, destroyed. The management of the Health Center of Studenica is not so professional, but also legally required to work on the reconstruction of the same hospital. Namely, the law says – first a static measurement must be made of the endurance of the facility, then a restoration project, then the appropriate service or supervisory authority of the Ministry of Health, or who it determines to examine, and then the choice of the contractor who would work on it, and that is all for a long time. The care of the city of the Kings and the management itself is in the next. It's fortunate there hasn't been an epidemic in this time of five and a half months, and it's unfortunate that someone has failed in these five and a half months, not coming to do what this project documentation has done so far. The Health Committee of this congregation was there the other day, saw this and was behind these words and the Health Committee. I am not authorized on behalf of the Committee, but on behalf of my party. In the Ministry of Health, there's a proper department for the implementation of such jobs, who brought it to an end or didn't start, I really don't know. For these reasons, without these projects they can't do anything in the King, 200 patients are impatient, and as you know 165 days have passed since the earthquake. I guess it's a reasonable time to do something like that. If we add to this that the King and the Institute of Public Health is torn to the ground, and now it's just a straight valley, a field, and there's not yet been a project or a new institution. With that in mind, I consciously call the Health Ministry Implementation Unit and Mr. Minister Zoran Stankovic, to answer me in writing, not only to me, but also to the citizens of the Kings, when this documentation will be completed for one and another facility. I hope so, and even more people in the Kings who are forced to be evacuated now by someone in Kragujevac, someone in Cačak, someone in Kruševac, which causes further interference with the relatives of the patients who are to be visited, and everyone else, and especially the employees of the Health Center of Studenica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53809	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53810	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, due to the critical shortage of goods and the need for orderly supply of the domestic market, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a Regulation on temporary exports and the sending of certain goods to other countries. The Regulation, No 110-1986/2011, introduces a temporary export restriction, i.e. a reference to other countries, or customs territory, and the Regulation applies to wheat and flour. It would be perfectly fine and probably the government's need for such a restriction and ban, but the Customs Administration by its act, No 148-0303004/2011. of 17 March, it brings an act saying – this measure also refers to the reference of the said goods to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. It's an act by the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration. The government of the Republic of Serbia automatically left all those in KIM who recognise the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, experience the Republic of Serbia as their country. I reacted after the announcement that there was no flour on KIM and that there was a shortage. The presidents of the KIM municipalities also responded. The county chiefs also responded. The KIM Ministry also reacted. That's not slow. After that reaction, given that KIM is flourless today, after a month, gentlemen of the People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia brings an amendment and an addition to the Regulation, where it approves 11,000 tonnes of flour still leaves that KIM is a single customs document and another state. A photocopy of the contract with a foreign partner on the export of flour for the entry into KIM is requested. Since such a regulation has not been well-intentioned and valid, it shall adopt a second amendment to the Regulation, under which a single customs document is replaced by a declaration and the applicants of the declaration shall attach a photocopy of the contract to the competent authority with the foreign partner. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made clear and loud in its regulation that the AP KIM for the Republic of Serbia is a foreign partner, customs territory and other countries. I warned both the public and the public twice about this shameful and unconstitutional act on the KIM Committee. No one reacted, and the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I was talking about, gentlemen, is deeply thought out and betrayed, and the actors of this act will soon be called the real name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53811	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53812	Dear Deputy President of the Assembly, Deputy Secretary-General, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transfer, I will use these five minutes to ask two questions. The first question is for Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Social Policy. So, I want an answer from Mr Ljajic, this should primarily be his comment on the offer of Serbia's citizens given from the highest place in this country of Serbia. However, from a party rally, from the Main Committee, where after 11 years of various reforms, transitions and European roads offer a 54.22 dinar bread protection price. So, the frozen price of bread. The first thing the citizens say, to inform all fellow Members of the people, such as the people—where they find it, these 22. That's one thing. So that someone doesn't think that this price of bread, given how our people live, is low and protective, it's the opposite. When you multiply 365 times 54.22 dinars, you get close to 20,000 dinars. I don't think I have to remind everyone here that in our country, unfortunately, more than 300,000 pensioners have a pension of less than 14,000. When only a TV subscription, which is 6,000 a year, is added to these 20,000, which I mentioned earlier, and a subscription for telephone services, without any impulse of use, that's a new 12,000 - that's 32,000. This means that practically for the use of public service only through the payment of TV subscription and telephone subscription and one loaf of bread 300,000 people, I don't need to remind you that these are powerless people who are unable to generate additional income, they should give 32,000 dinars. How will they live and what kind of offer is this? This is a disgrace to all of us here, and to the states, and to the state authorities and to the one who said it. I think he came to that session unprepared and that someone from the marketing team pushed him - that it was good to tell the citizens of Serbia. Do these people need to buy a liter of milk just yet? Do they have to pay for electricity, get dressed, know how pensioners live, but eat, feed people? I don't want to talk about drugs. Many very important medicines are not on the so-called so-called medicines. a positive list. So I ask Mr. Rasim Ljajic a question, that is, his comment on what he thinks about this kind of offer to citizens, who have been humiliated, like us as a state, Parliament, Government and all institutions, and, of course, the citizens who live the way they live -- very difficult? I have another question for the chairman of the board of directors. Serbia's public service. Since I see that these days they have a lot of work to do, and there is no reaction to taking the shows off Radio Belgrade 2, that means they're in deep business, they have a lot of work to do, so I'm interested, given that last year my question was answered by the Director of the Public Sector in writing how much his salary, compensation for his work, I don't see why not members of the Board of Directors of the so-called. Public service, i.e. Serbian Radio-Televisions, responded to the amount of monthly compensation, salary or compensation, as it is already called, for the hard work they are doing on behalf of Serbian citizens, which pay TV subscription? So, I'm one of them. I want to know how many board members there are, what is their monthly fee, and how much have they received for the past year in total each of them individually? I ask Prime Minister Predrag Markovic, who is in charge of the area, and I ask the Director of the Public Service of Mr Tijanic to respond to me and the citizens of Serbia, to those who regularly still pay, one of them, TV subscription and have the kind of programme they have, but this time I insist on having an immediate answer, because it cannot be a secret – how many members of the RTS Management Board have compensation for their monthly work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53813	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53814	I will ask the question, on behalf of the SRS, to the Prime Minister for purely formal and legal reasons, but it would be good for everyone who is for the EU and NATO Pact to help him to answer that question as well as possible. Of course, a year ago I opened the subject of the customs stamp and the customs declaration of an independent state of Kosovo. You had a chance to hear Mr. Milentievich. You're done before Brussels and winked it. Here in the media you are fighting for Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of 75% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the Prime Minister – will it be interrupted more by the humiliation of this people and by the destruction of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia? What's this about? When the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia issue a warrant or press charges against someone who is not a Serb, then some other criteria enter the scene, then the European Convention on Extradition is not respected, then Interpol is not Interpol, then Ejup Ganic can perform performance in London and come as a hero who commanded in the centre of Sarajevo, and television broadcast directly, killing dozens of JNA members. When Serbia presses charges against Ceku, he stays at an airport, drinks a coffee shop, and if he is in Skopje at the airport, then in a meeting with Boris Tadic, exchanges and nice greetings and, of course, Tadic welcomes him as a soldier. It's similar with Thaci. It is similar with all those who are somehow responsible for the Serb death. No one cuts you abroad, I can't say respect, but it doesn't. So what's this about? How do you represent these interests of the Republic of Serbia? However, when someone stands up on the left foot in Zagreb, otherwise the capital of the Croatian Ustasha state, draws up some paper against someone who is a Serb and, as a matter of fact, if found in Serbia, the five-to-one column, arrests a man, conducts some quasi-proceeds and looks forward to delivering, we just don't know how much money per kilogram of meat will be obtained. I'm not inviting you to come to Shabac at 6 p.m. today, where we're going to hold a big protest rally against your regime against this government. You're a little confused right now because it was raining, so the water got into the coaxial cables, so you lost your connection to Brussels, because your brain is there, and that's where you get attitudes and opinions. You know, and that was your logic, so let's deliver the man to Vidovday, and we'll all be better off. Then let's deliver 16 people, supposedly voluntarily, so we'll be better off. And no better. How much better will it be for the Serbian people and Serbia if the court in Sapac decides to deliver Bozidar Vucurevic to the Croatian Ustasha state? Will you be pleased? The next day, there are citizens to be bearable and bread-gathering, and electricity, and gas, we'll all be happier, and you'll be jumping popularity, it's amazing to have your popularity up to 160%. Of course, Brussels will commend you. Why don't I commend you? He has given you such a role. What will the Republic of Serbia do and end more with serving the interests of the West and delivering our people to enemy courts, which we know are not respecting any rights, absolutely no rights? Are you going to call someone from the D.A.'s office to account for the Purd case, the Vesna Bosnian and the Order? Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53815	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for a word, to use their right under Article 286? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53816	The Honorable Chairman, this is a matter addressed to you. Again, I ask if the use of the right of the Rules of Procedure to ask the question and the right and the possibility to insult, therefore, is at the expense of other states, at the expense of the president of state institutions, at the expense of Serbia itself? There is no doubt that Serbia has regained international respect with severe torment after 2000, regained international reputation, that it has succeeded in presenting itself as a democratic country that respects the democratic values of the modern world. What someone thinks, has the right to think that chaos, war, that disorder, lawlessness, that the autocratic system is a better system, it is their right, but it has no right, I think of it as the chairman you should react to, that it offends all of those, after all, that it offends the citizens of Serbia who declare themselves democratically, internationally respected and recognised Serbia, therefore, that there is no right to, to use the right to ask the question, insult and the country itself, all of its citizens. Maybe it doesn't offend 3% of those who stand behind this attitude and these offensive messages that are sent to anyone who thinks to direct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53817	The 286 Institute, which allows MPs to seek explanations and information to be able to perform a parliamentary function, presents a kind of problem for the chairman. So if, in the choice of words, sentences, metaphors or arguments, the MP decides to do harm to himself or to do harm to the institution in which he is sitting, it is difficult for the chairman to have mechanisms within the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to prevent him from doing so. That is the risk of this institute established by Article 286. Any intervention by the chairman, which would paradoxically help a MP who is doing harm to himself or the institution, would be considered a violation of the right to freedom of speech. That's why it's a very thin line that, listening to MPs asking questions or asking for information, goes to every chairman, so do I. You can't stop anyone from saying what they're thinking. In cases where there is a very obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure and demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly, I will intervene, as it has been, but I think we all need to learn together to actually use the right of Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want to use their right to Article 286? In any case, it is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and as the other MP speaks, and as the chairman answers the question he has been asked. There's no dilemma. If there is a dilemma about what metaphor you are harming yourself, or the Assembly, or Serbia, there is no dilemma about this, so please do not throw yourself out of the parliamentary bench. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vučković, Branka Ljiljak, Marko Djurisic, Edip Sheriffov, Konstantin Samofalov, Moma Colaković and Đuro Peric. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representative of the proposings, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić Dejanovic called for the meetings to be attended by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petkovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. Before opening a specifics search, I remind the MPs of the time available to them under the Rules of Procedure during today’s debate, or in particular. For the presidents, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups: the PUPS has all the time available for both the authorised representative and the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of minorities used time of the authorised representative, and the parliamentary group has four minutes and 24 seconds at their disposal, the New Serbia parliamentary group has eight minutes at its disposal, and the parliamentary group of 10 minutes, the LDP authorised representative has two minutes at his disposal, and the parliamentary group of five minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group of SPS - JSima at its disposal all time and authorised representatives and parliamentary groups, the parliamentary group of DSS – Vojislav Kostunica has a mandated representative available for 10 minutes and 24 seconds, and the parliamentary group has eight minutes and 30 seconds at their disposal, the MP group "Forward Serbia" has the appointed representative who has the time available, and the parliamentary group has 16 minutes and 30 seconds, the mandated group of the group of the group of Members of Members of the group of the UN has all of Members, the group of the group of Members and the group of Members, the group of the group of Members of the group of Members of Members of the group of Members, the group of Members, the group of the group of the group of Members, the group of the group of the group of Members, the group of members of members of members of the group of the group of the group of representatives, representatives, representatives of the group of the group of representativess, representativess, representativess, representativess, representatives of representatives of representatives of representativess, representatives of representativess, representativess, representatives of representatives of representativess, representatives of the group of the group of the group of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of the group of representatives of the group, representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group, representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives, representatives of representatives, representatives, representatives, representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of the On the basis of Article 158, paragraph 4, which determines how time is available when the Assembly is working with more than a number of amendments following a search in particular, so that it is 10 hours for a search of particulars, when it comes to the right of the MPs, the amendment can use its two minutes to explain the amendments. At this point in time for the interpretation of the amendment, meaning two minutes for each applicant, is available to all applicants of the six-hour amendment and 46 minutes. The moment that time is used, the debate on amendments closes, and with two minutes of time the individual has. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly today that we will be working until the end of the search for the specifics of the common principled search, if we are to work after 1800 hours to complete the discussion of the details of all the points of the joint search, then we will work and until the end. On Tuesday, we will continue our work on continuing the search in particular, with points in the agenda of the next joint search. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF OŽAVRAŠENJU AND OBLJENJU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, together Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Poskrović, Gojko Radić Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čalić, Dragan Šormić and Dragan Šormazić, Gordjan Šormaz, Gordana Pop Lazić, thenna Pop Miljanažić, Miljanažović, Mižović, Mižna Poš, Mirko Poš, Mirko Požović, Mižović, Mirko Požović and his people, Milić and his people. You've received the government's opinion. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendment groups of 21 MPs of the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia to Article 21 and amendments submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic, and to Article 92. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon under Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53818	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Implementing Procedure Act, I must say that the provision of the Implementing Procedure Act, which is proposed to this assembly, is extremely unacceptable and it is extremely incomprehensible that erasure of the law is allowed for people who are absolutely not in any deeper practice that the law can be found in front of the National Assembly and in front of the MPs. The law on enforcement is a law that represents a system law, which should allow citizens to exercise their basic human rights and should finalise the executive judgment. I have proposed an amendment to Article 1, where I am staying and I suggest that it be adopted, and in particular, there will be more words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53819	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53820	These first two amendments practically express our view of the whole new draft law on enforcement and security. But before I explain any specifics specifically, I have to continue that debate since yesterday. You see, when something's wrong with those who write about some dictatorship the law of things goes through. Last night, the public notebook was a man of public trust. The first time we've heard that category, and now in your own dialect, you're inserting the contractor as an entrepreneur, and what do you say to him? An executor shall exercise public authority entrusted to him by this law. You've got it all wrong. Then you have a kind of dialectic in Article 11, where you give terms, so someone tried to demonstrate the brilliant mind, the point 7 of the judicial executioner, the point 8 of the executioner. Less or less enforcement and security measures are something traditional, familiar. We've focused all the amendments on your idea of transferring the original jurisdiction of the state to physical persons, to racketeeres. Why? So when you started transforming the judiciary, you said that some of the smaller places had lost their courts, so you had the seat of the basic courts from 162 brought down to 30 and something. Now you have a physical problem with the execution, so you'll probably be in a place where the basic court's headquarters is being executed to execute a court and an executive judge, and in those places where it's not the seat of the basic court, in those municipalities, come on private entrepreneurs. In the next phase, you'll have private prisons, since we already have private security with 64,000 armed. They're stronger than the army and the police together. What you're saying, I don't argue that sounds very nice, but a weak vision of it. This is where you destroy the structure of the state government. Why? Because foreigners want to have justice in their hands and under control everything, because justice controls the legality of every and every administrative act and everything. They want to go through the judiciary to realize their interests and therefore take you on trips abroad, say some of their epochal knowledge. That is the fundamental problem of this law, which you privatise the functions of the state. You give the legal function of the state to an individual, so you transform and rationalize the state. Now we're going to have an executive chamber, and yesterday you were talking about the notebook chamber, and yesterday it was a bar for lawyers, and now we're going to go through the local communities. So when we're done with the basic courts, then we're going to the municipalities, and we're going to the local communities, and then we're going to the streets, and then the only way to get into our house is to get more. In each apartment, one state institution, half private. It's something epochal. Who the hell are you telling is something epochal? I know you're getting popular, you're getting incredibly popular, but that popularity of yours doesn't get in your mouth. Guys, that's the problem. How's that popularity going to get in your mouth? It's nice for you to come out here on 16th, all of you who are for the European Union, for NATO, to scare the European Union how many people can't wait to join the European Union. Maybe you scare them along with the marathons and they decide in October to sign. Well, in November, too. If not in November, then December. And so. This is our problem – in October, in November, in December. That's our problem, it's headlessly bumping into Brussels, according to the European Union and the NATO Pact. Get away from the west. I do not dispute that the West loves Boris Tadic, but does not like the Serbian people. Thank you for not punishing me, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53821	It's been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem with this draft law on enforcement and security is to continue the problem with the so-called reform of the judiciary. All the things we told you when we talked about the network of courts and the Law on Courts, etc., it turns out from day to day that we were right and now in this part, we will see, in particular, through all these amendments, how right we are and how practice will show that we are right. The fundamental problem of all these laws that are presented to us in the Assembly is that all these laws are written elsewhere and are passed by the order of the European Commission. That is what the ruling majority wants to hide from Serbian citizens. The other day, we had a meeting of this commission to prepare a law on the selection of MPs and at that meeting, where the public was otherwise excluded, or the media were not allowed to attend, by representatives of the ruling majority, it is said that it is not good that we are telling the public that we are doing this on the orders of the European Commission, because it creates a negative public opinion against the EU. So, citizens need to know that all that we get from the government and that what is voted here with powerful 126 green buttons is just what we have to do because it requires the EU from Serbia. Believe me, the citizens of Serbia don't want it and they'll show it to you in the elections, be sure. The jurisdiction of the enforcement officer as provided for in Article 4 where we are asking in another position to delete that position which states that when the executing officer undertakes enforcement actions on the basis of a decision by the court referred to in Article 1 of this Article outside the area for which he has been appointed, he may take these actions personally or through the executioner from another area. So, we also talked in the principle debate that you instead of the bailiffs introduce debt seekers, and then let's see who can stand up to the debtor. The bottom line is that this confirms that we were right, Mrs. Malovic, when we warned that your court network was wrong. Then, among other things, we asked who would bear the costs of going to the executioner, for example, from Tutina to Novi Pazar, or from Novi Pazar to Tutin, because Tutin has no more court, there are many Tutinas in Serbia who have no court. Then you assured us that there would remain some functions in those places, and we claimed that this did not result from the law. Now here's one proof that we were right and now we're right. So, this attitude must also be erased and your argument why you do not accept it is absolutely unacceptable because you say that the bill, for reasons of efficiency of enforcement, allows the perpetrator to carry out certain enforcement tasks on the territory of another court alone or through another enforcer. We warned you of the efficiency of the courts that you completely deleted in this so-called reform. We have warned you that if you want a balanced regional development in which you swear, you must not remove courts in smaller places because you will then suspend their health centres and schools, etc. Of course, all their economic activities have been lifted long ago. So, the completely wrong concept and everything you do under the EU's order is absolutely at the expense of all citizens of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53823	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53824	I'll use the MP's time to talk about the amendment. So it is absolutely not disputed that in different ways we look at the concept of the judicial system and what we mean as necessary to reform this system. There are fundamentally profound differences between us and that's legitimate. What I think is controversial in this whole story is that we have never denied that we want to apply standards of modern, developed democratic societies, that we want Serbia and Serbian society to reform in the depths, above all, in the best interests of its citizens. Some other countries may be role models and others autocratically or not know what dictatorial regimes are, but what citizens need for which they have given their support in the elections is that Serbia is reformed in accordance with democratic values and standards. We never hid that by harmonising and reforming Serbian society and all segments of that society with the highest standards that modern civilization has reached, we also want to become part of that modern developed world, to become part of the EU. If we want to become part of the most developed part of civilization, then we say – we want to apply those standards as well. That's not what anyone's making us do. There is no dictatorship, there are no conditions, we have defined ourselves to do this because it is in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia. Obviously, there is a profound difference between whether the state should dissipate itself or not. These are two completely different concepts of the arrangement of society: whether what is called power should grab as many authorities as possible, or whether society needs as much responsibility and governance as possible in relation to some centres of government. Maybe by a few dozen years ago some standards were unimaginable. It was unimaginable that society was fighting for the equality of people who had been hidden somewhere from the eyes of the public for decades, being a disgrace to those same societies. We today advocate the equality of every man in our society, whether or not it belongs to any minority group. We're not hiding that we're looking for role models and models where standards gave you the best results. If someone is trying to object to us and to say that we are hiding it, I repeat it countless times – we have decided to look up to those who have shown that they know that these standards and values have been confirmed through practice and that they are in the best interests of the citizens of those countries. If this is our sin, then the citizens in the elections will show that we have made a mistake, so they will choose those who think that some dictatorial regimes, some alienated centres of power and authorities should continue to stick to, that citizens should not ask themselves many things, that not everyone should be equal, that we should hide people with disabilities, people with special needs, people with minority sexual orientations, etc. We think that the society we want to build should be a society of equal people, equal opportunities and a society in which state centres will be able to be placed under public control and be deposed to the extent that, on the one hand, it will not make it impossible for society and state to function, and on the other hand, it will enable citizens to influence and wonder about their own fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53825	Four minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53826	My colleague Kolundji obviously didn't understand what I said. It's true that we're talking about different concepts. That's what I said. Of course we have a diametrically different concept of us, Serbian radicals, compared to the DS concept. You say you accept the standards of modern countries. I have said and I say that you accept the orders of the European Commission, the EU and that is no acceptance of standards or any modernisation, but acceptance of orders by system – take or leave. Mrs Kolundzhija is alone, here she is now, when she insists, to say who said it, she herself said at a meeting of that commission, about amending the law on the election of MPs – please don't, please, let us talk about that, because this creates a negative citizen's odyssey towards the EU. So that's a fact. That's what we're talking about. Says Mrs. Kolundjia – if anyone wants to look up to some autocratic regimes, some dictatorial regimes, etc., that you have nothing against it. My people, is there a more dictatorial regime than the Boris Tadic regime? What did Boris Tadic not involve himself in? What isn't the president? What doesn't he define in this country? Who doesn't he choose? Of course, I'm not talking about what the Constitution can do. I'm talking about his daily violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, first of all, if you don't want to look up to dictatorial regimes, teach Boris Tadic to stop with the dictatorship he introduced in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53827	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53828	Dear Chairman, is the order what we say – let's see what is the standard that we want to apply. You can interpret it as a warrant, I can't argue with that. So we say -- let's see what the standards are, because we transform our society, change our society according to democratic standards and values, and say that we want to see what the best standards apply are. Of course it's not true that I could say the word that it was a warrant. I am a person who deeply believes in Serbia's need to apply standards that exist in developed democratic societies, and I deeply believe that if we look up and look for these patterns, then we look for them where these standards are most developed. Of course, if we are to consult with them, then we are to consult them on how to apply these standards. So I can't possibly be the person who said such nonsense as a warrant, because nobody works on a warrant here in Serbia. We are working here from a deep belief that Serbia's need to change is also a deep belief that it is best to change according to best values and standards. It is hard to comment now at all on a nonsense such as the accusation that the President of the Republic is in any way abusing the Constitution or that the President of the Republic is establishing some kind of regime. That's total nonsense. Serbia is a fundamentally democratic country, a country that builds democratic institutions. I'm not saying there's still no shortage, that these institutions aren't solid enough yet. So I'm not saying they're strong enough and stable enough. What no one can dispute is our firm determination to build these institutions on the best role models. Unfortunately, you can't be our role models, your politics in no single question. Unfortunately, whenever you have a fundamental objection to our approach, then we realize how right we are, because your approach in the past time proves it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53829	Two minutes. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53830	Of course we have to make remarks about this all the way up until now, and I won't, I have no intention of convincing myself who said anything. So, in the end, it is clear to Serbian citizens that the state of Serbia lives, operates, works on the EU's orders. Colundji's colleague says the intention of the DS and the ruling coalition is to fundamentally change society. This society really needs to change fundamentally, but the SRS has a completely different concept for this society to change. Of course, we have a legitimate right. That's why we're here to talk about it. True, no one in this debate has turned our attention right now that we can't do that. When the SRS is fundamentally changing society, then it certainly won't get 280 thousand people fired, as much as this government in power has won. Then we will certainly not indirectly recognise KIM and we will not, as Boris Tadic, who said Mrs. Kolundzija, is not a dictator and does not violate the Constitution, we argue otherwise, will not text messages to send a message to the UN Security Council, five minutes before the UN Security Council session, to change the KIM Resolution, which was brought to parliament. We will not allow ourselves, as Boris Tadic's regime, to declare its own people genocide, to make resolutions such as the Srebrenica Resolution, but rather, we will put it out of force because the Serb people are not genocide, as you predicted in that resolution. We will not co-operate with the Ustasha Croatian regime, as you work very hard. I'm sorry to offend you when we say that the Croatian regime is Ustasha, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53831	Two minutes. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53832	I can only say that it is fortunate that Serbian citizens understand what kind of policy it is and that this policy does not enjoy any support, so you will never be able to fundamentally change society, to our great happiness, because it will mean that fundamentally changing society you will not have fictitious jobs, that you will not lead to wars, that you will not lead to the Kumanovo Agreement, where Serbia has literally lost sovereignty on KIM, where you will not war with the whole world, where you will not embarrass the Serbian people, so that the whole world has seen it as the worst people on the planet. So, since the citizens of Serbia understand that clearly, you, fortunately, will not have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53833	The letter of the Prophet of Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53834	We will certainly leave that opportunity to the citizens of Serbia, when it is time for the elections. As far as we're concerned, you can schedule them tomorrow. But, of course, you'll do it when it suits you, when you're ordered from the EU and you call the elections when you're ordered from the EU. Don't worry about what Serbian citizens will say about the SRS. We don't care what they say about you. That's, of course, your problem. For a reminder, the SRS was the only political party in Serbia to oppose it at the time of the adoption of the Kumanovo Agreement. Unlike the party where Mrs. Kolundji is sitting now, she was then in a party that supported the Kumanski Agreement. Of course, it's a personal matter and I don't want to talk about it that way. Speaking of these fundamental changes in society, I don't know how you'll explain to Serbian citizens corruption and crime at the top of the state, in institutions, the failure of the system's institutions. You know, here's Mrs. Malovic, who when he was current Darko Saric, who you all forgot, whose warrant you also wrote to, so no one can show him anything, as well as against Stanko Subotic, as well as against Purda, as well as against Ejup Ganic, etc., and here you show the servient relationship of this regime to the EU and to the countries with which you, as well as, want to cooperate. Mrs Malovic publicly said in one show that Darko Saric is so powerful that he can influence all governments in the region. When I looked at it, I said – thank you, Snow, so we talk for years that this government and the governments of this regime have been forming tycoons since 2000, forming criminals, type Stanko Subotic, Darko Saric, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53835	Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53836	I really can't see how fighting organized crime and corruption would represent any kind of, like you said, servitude relationship. The fight against organised crime is primarily due to citizens of Serbia because all those people accused of one of the world's largest drug seizures lived in our environment. The fact that you said I was on the show, that Darko Saric influenced governments in the region, is simply not true. I never said that. That they had great financial powers, yes, according to the knowledge that this state owns, but I never said anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53837	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has been reported in the system. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ( b) The People's Parliament, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53838	I didn't, of course, intend to do it this way with Mrs. Malovic, but since she's here, so I remembered that statement on the show, but it would be good if you had already entered the controversy, Madam Minister, to tell us - what about the charges against Ganic and Purda, for example?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53839	People's MPs, you got a line because you said the minister made a statement on the television show. She denied it. You got the replica on the contents of the minister's statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53840	Okay. I'm going back to that replica. Madam Minister was a guest at B92. I don't remember dates. I don't remember days. That's what she said then, and it's possible to find it on that television, nothing controversial, but Mrs. Minister also explained that she never said it, and she said she extended the story to charges against Darko Saric, etc. I'm just asking-- what about these charges? What about the indictment against Stanko Sutotic, who has been told these days that when Nikolic and Vukic went to Brussels, that Vukic jumped to Geneva to see Stanko Subotic? So he can function normally there, normally seeing some people who are in touch with him. That is the problem, because the charges coming from Serbia are not legally valid. That's what the examples show you, and it's drastic, terrible examples. A criminal can walk, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. Or maybe he can be hidden somewhere. A war criminal can walk around laughing at us on TV, making fun of us. Why did you let Jurisic go? He was in Serbia, so Tuzla waited for him as a folk hero, a war criminal. So, there are a lot of problems that we could really talk about, here I am finishing up, Mrs. Komic, if there were any good will with the chairman, such as today at Mrs. Comic's, so it allows us what it is to be the work of the MPs, to exchange opinions. Thank you for that, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53841	People's MPs, always applying the Rules of Procedure, allow MPs to say what they think. When there is a basis for replication, then the replica is obtained, when someone forgets what the agenda is, they are warned what the agenda is, when someone breaks the provision, I warn them that they have broken the provision. Nothing more and nothing less. All the time. The Minister of Justice has been reported. Did you want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here's to prove that I'm closely monitoring the application of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic is convinced that breaking the Rules of Procedure is not a throwaway. Yes, it is. Whoever you consulted, he misinformed you. So throwing out of the bench is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. MP Srdjan Milivojevic gives up. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 4? You're registered in the electronic system. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53842	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed the presentations of my predecessors, and I have noticed several very dangerous claims in previous statements concerning this amendment, which do not have much to do with this amendment. So, first of all, sentences that we are working on an EU order; we are doing as the citizens of this country wish, because we were elected by the citizens of this country. I was elected to Krushevec. As a MP, I represent the interests of the citizens of Krushevec, who want to live like the whole normal world. I also heard that Serbia is not a democratic society, that Serbia is a tyranny and dictatorship, and it is forgotten that dictatorship is a title for the form of the government in which all power is concentrated in the hands of a man or a group of people, and that authority is limited by the Constitution, law or customs. I think a dictatorship is recognized, or at least a man who has dictatorial ambitions based on it when someone pulls a gun on students, when they take a hekler out on cab drivers, when they beat up a journalist in a television studio and says he slipped on banana peel. I think the dictatorship is recognized when someone orders Zemun to walk in the evening and list apartments in which Croats live, and then give those same Croats 24 hours to move out of that same Zemun. The dictatorship is recognized, or at least a man with dictatorial ambitions is recognized when he says that a Croat from Thompson hits a bullet, then both his eyes fall out and then they don't have to take those eyes out. These are rather dangerous statements and that these dangerous statements have led us to live in an unsettled society where Serbian citizens are not satisfied. I think that Serbian citizens still want to run this country by someone who wants to make a normal country, and I think that Serbian citizens very well recognize who they are and they trust them in the elections, both in local and parliamentary ones, and that what they barely survived in the distant or close past, Serbian citizens do not want to repeat themselves to them and also demonstrate it well in the free elections. These free elections are also proof that Serbia is a democratic society. The moment those who lose power in the elections say that the electoral will of citizens recognise and hand over power in a peaceful manner is also a democratic liquid. This democratic fluid was followed by these steps, when leaders with dictatorial ambitions pulled heclares, pistols, banana barks, counted whether to cross or bow, divided us into ours and theirs, into smaller or larger patriots, and then got the right to be very brutally and cruelly reckoned with members of national minorities. I sit in line with Peter Kundić, who is a Croat and who is very uncomfortable to hear that the Croatian state is a Ustasha formation and that all Croats are Ustasha. Petar Kundić is a Democrats by definition and a man who has been defined to live in this country, to be an MP in this country, this is his country as much as mine and all of us MPs who live here. Please don't divide us into those who get baptized, cross or bow, into smaller or larger patriots, because I remember the time when some people took the right to be very brutally and cruelly reckoned with members of other national minorities, and then they said they were doing it because it was the ultimate act of patriotism. Finally, it was also an act of patriotism that was very brutally and cruelly dealt with us who by their standards were not big enough patriots, and then we got Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic and what the citizens of Serbia did not forget and what they did not want to repeat and what they were determined to reject in all the elections so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53843	Four minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of Rade, two minutes, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53844	It'll be less than two minutes, just two brief remarks. As far as the SRS is concerned, we do not dispute that on 11 May 2008, Serbian citizens elected in the elections as they chose and that the DS received as many mandates as it had received, but the problem is that you did not accept the election will of the citizens who showed up by receiving 78 seats from the Serbian radicals on 11 May 2008. You allowed a party that did not participate then in the election, the Progressive Party, to win a parliamentary group. You have allowed and you have stolen the mandates of Serbian citizens through the Administrative Board and you have turned the will of the citizens in the most harsh way possible. Don't do what you do to put on the soul of the SRS. As far as the Croatian state is concerned, you've never heard anyone from the SRS say that all Croats are Ustasha and I'm sorry that you think that about our colleague. We have said and we claim that the regime in Croatia is now this Ustasha regime, the same as the regime of Ante Pavelic and Franjo Tudjman, and we cannot change that, those people who live there, those Croats who did not stand up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53845	I don't get into what can change and what can't, but I'm asking you to choose your words carefully. A strong word is never a proof of strength or intelligence, but a lack of knowledge of other words, so I ask that we choose our words carefully, because of those of us living in Serbia, as much as we do for everyone else we address, whether we qualify for the countries or for the populations of those countries. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic jointly submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53846	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment, we wanted in some way to remove the possibility of being arbitrary, and in a way that could harm execution and parties in the executive procedure, determines the enforcer. Of course, in light of the rejection of this amendment, we have received a response regarding the concept proposed by the Government in the case of perpetrators, the possibility that there are private perpetrators who would be elected and executed by the Executive Commissioner. The danger of this concept is that the way in which an executive procedure is conducted by the Executive Trustee and by the concept of a private enforcer will be: whoever gives more money, a greater force will be applied. This concept will very quickly turn into force and extortion in practice in order to achieve a claim that, probably with full right, is based on judicial decisions. The point is that the private perpetrator is someone who will be able to form his team, have his assistants, in a position that, unlike the perpetrators who will be in courts, he has the opportunity to use various types of benefits so that he can carry out a judicial decision or conduct a procedure, and unfortunately this will be in practice to the greatest extent aware of the application of force. The whole concept of this set of judicial laws that we're discussing yesterday and today comes down to one thing. This is where we heard about the decommissioning of the state. This has nothing to do with the detachment of the state through law on law enforcement, through the law on public records. The Law on Lawyerry, by taking over a series of counter-instructions by the bar and the state itself, by interfering in the functioning of law through this law and by selecting the first hundred notebooks, the state and how it does not dissipate but is tightening its power. It tightens its power towards institutions that should be independent, and at the same time it leaves them with jobs. That could explain, about, I want more authorities, but less to do. It's a concept that applies and wants to be inaugurated into the judicial system by amending this law. So we want to have a list of perpetrators, to respect the order of the list, as well as the Law on Judges respects the order of judges when they receive the case and thus will respect the interest of all parties and in an equal manner implement the executive procedure. If we adopt the concept of private contractors, I fear that to the greatest extent possible, it will turn into a serious application of force towards executive debtors. For, behold, one of the powers of private perpetrators will be to investigate the origin of the property or wherever the executive debtor has the property. What kind of office is this going to be a private contractor? One of them will hold the property of the debtors, the other will ring his doorbell and warn him that it would be better to pay otherwise it will be, and at the same time the executioner will be paid very well because of the practice that now exists in courts, that executive disputes are slow and long running. Executive Trustee - just give me the money, I don't ask how much it costs and how you get it. I ask you to respect this amendment, to accept it and to give up that concept that is called here, the detachment of a state that has nothing to do with it, this is the tightening of power and state in independent institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53847	Two minutes of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic jointly submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53848	Madam Minister, I have a question for you personally. Which is why you accept that the bill is written by someone else or here by order of someone else. Here's a completely realistic claim from Ms. Vervain Radeta. Did one of your colleagues say we have a different approach. Of course we have a different approach. Here, I'll show you here, when I say and why you accept. You and I both know what great professors we have at law school both in Belgrade and elsewhere, extremely good judges and other people who do legal science, and they can do a far better proposal than what we have here. You have provided in Article 5 that the first-degree executive procedure and decisions are made by an individual judge, and in the second-degree higher than one judge and two jury judges. We suggested that it change. In the first degree, yes, an individual judge, in the second degree more than three judges. We respect the principle of convention, we respect the public principle in the court procedure, but it is not possible for judges to decide in the second procedure, i.e. to participate in decisions, who you know well that they do not have legal qualifications, i.e. they are not graduate lawyers. You have accepted the amendment of some other Members of the People. All right, he will do well to correct the text of this bill, or Article 5, but you further said it was more precise and better, and confirmed what we suggested from the SRS, but the amendment was accepted where it is said – if the law did not regulate something else. Do not constantly challenge anything else to be regulated. Our laws must be precise. We can't say something like this in one provision, and in another, there's something else we can say somewhere else. So, some members within the same law are opposed to themselves. Unfortunately, one of my colleagues says we're doing what the citizens want us to do. I can only ask if the citizens wanted to be unemployed. Did the citizens want to come slowly to justice? Did you say that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, as well as the President of the High Council of the judiciary, would suggest that you, or the Ministry of Justice, propose to reconsider the decision on the court's network of courts. We talked about it in 2009 and 2010. Now he's going back to what we pointed out. Someone didn't want to hear it or couldn't understand it enough. Some agree, one's policy is for the equality of citizens. How can those who have been fired be equal to those who have stayed to work or are re-received? The difference between them is political belonging and nothing else. Is that equality? Mrs. Kolundjia, if the chairman allows me, I must speak directly to you. Of course Boris Tadic violates the constitution because it is incompatible with being the party's president and being president of the Serbian state. That's what constitutional law lawyers tell you. Look a little bit, so you'll see that no other principle constitutionally violates, that's enough, so you'll wonder deeply what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53849	One minute and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53850	I asked that Article 5 of Section 3 be deleted. For the sake of the public, I will only read this position 3. In which he says - a judicial assistant can carry out the affairs of a court enforcer in the procedure of execution by order of the judge. It is clear to us that as soon as you gave the opportunity to, or a private contractor, give a warrant to some third parties, who can often be suspects, to say both the past and everything, that they can participate in the execution, that this is a lower degree. But of course we have to react to this because multiple damage can be done from this. First, there's a confusion here, then a court's systemwork is being violated, the court's jurisdiction is being violated. Finally, it is disrupted in some way and divided into that legislative, executive, and judicial authority. In the procedure of execution, therefore, powers shall be given to the judicial assistant. Madam Minister, there's a particularly interesting explanation here. The reason is that court assistants are said to have more professional equipment than a court enforcer. I'm sorry, please. I know a lot of secretaries who have more professional equipment than this court assistant. Why don't we let them do some errands, when we can give to someone who has a greater skill, and let's give them who has a greater skill now and then than this. Then why do you do it like that? Without wanting to diminish the expertise and knowledge of the court assistant, it is the least I would like, but don't hesitate all the jobs, don't devise all the state functions, and so many jobs, and put all these things simply on what is said, in the absence of commanding the duty of Corporal Cira. It's not good for this country. It's not good for these citizens. I think you should think this through.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53851	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Boris Aleksic has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with the correction of 17 April 2011, the paper really writes on 17 April, it is a technical mistake, probably on April 11th, whichever April the amendment, with a correction, was brought together by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53852	Here, in this amendment, we wanted to highlight the problem that would arise in the execution process if the concept proposed in this law was adopted that deadlines for all executive operations would be five working days. We have heard in the opening part of the exhibition that this law will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the executive process, which is a fact, because a large number of enforcement procedures in Serbia are taking a very long time. The assumption was that instruments would be introduced, institutions that would speed it up and implement it. However, it is difficult to defend the position that this law contributes to the acceleration of the executive procedure if we make a solution that is worse than the existing solution. Five working days for the implementation of the executive procedure will be converted into seven working days, if we count weekends or holidays even more. We just don't see why the term "workday" was introduced. More or less, that notion has already come out of use in procedural law. Everyone knows who participates in any procedure, litigative, executive, criminal, that it is more effective for these deadlines to be set in full-day, like, three working days, which we have suggested, and we believe that it will certainly speed up the executive procedure. We don't see anywhere else, you have 90-day deadlines, you don't say 90 working days or 30 working days. For the first time, working days appear as a concept in the executive procedure. So there are a lot of contradictory solutions in this law that are supposed to speed up the executive procedure. We believe that the three-day deadline is appropriate, that he can contribute to solving the problems involved in the executive process itself. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment, you say that it is difficult to achieve a three-day period in practice, so we can get information about how it has lasted so far. We don't think we've received any proper explanation or assessment of the Ministry or the Government for why five working days. That's what's left unsaid.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53853	For the sake of a stenogram, just to give information, amendments with a correction were submitted by MPs on 7 April 2011. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53854	Article 9(3) The bill reads as follows: ''The law of the Executive Trustee shall be entered in a public book, or in an appropriate public register, unless otherwise specified by this law. ''The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment suggesting that "unless otherwise specified by this law" be deleted. Why? What are these reasons why the SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment? We agree in principle with the correctness of the provisions of Article 9, where the order of conduct and order of settlement of the request of the Executive Trustee is foreseen. In order to prevent abuses, in order for the executive procedure to be conducted as effectively as possible, we do not consider that a different solution should be given, except as provided for in Article 9, as provided for in Article 3 of this Article. Several executive creditors have claims against one executive debtor, which should be implemented to the end. This amendment, which I submitted to Article 9, just confirms the rule, because it prevents different solutions in order to settle executive creditors. The amendment strictly refers to compliance with this rule and order of settlement according to the time of the commitment, i.e. the proposal submitted. Item 3, if these words are excluded, which are required by the amendment not to be in this position, means that they are deleted, is both precise and concrete. In some cases, in different places in Serbia, for example, in Aleksinc, it is a matter of a number of settlements of the demands of several councilors, who have to the executive debtors and debtors from the opposition political parties in the local parliament, which followed countless conditions, blackmail, threats, and abuse at work, which we say in everyday life is the mobing, by those who want to come to power in the local self-government in Alexinc, and at any cost, not choosing funds for it. You should take care of that. Of course, it's a paradigm, but unfortunately, it exists in everyday life, at least lately, when it comes to Alexine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53855	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 9th amendment. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53856	I really don't understand why this amendment wasn't accepted. All the time we're talking about the need to establish one justice in the executions, that simply all those who were in the day and hour were the first to submit a proposal for execution to come to the possibility that their case would be treated as first, that there would be no abuse, that perpetrators could decide for themselves in relation to relatives, on friendly lines, whose subject would be taken faster into service, and today we have a big problem, which I suppose you know. We wanted to avoid this amendment by any broad norm and opportunity for the perpetrator to come into a position to abuse the situation he was in. We wanted to delete in Article 9(3) the concept of special circumstances. We think that, too, a broad standard of economic claims is quite enough to make that exception, if it is necessary for the case to be taken earlier in work, past the order which determines the day and hour of handover to the court. Special circumstances can now contribute to the continuation of this poor practice that exists now in courts, that cases are taken past the order set by the date and time of the court's application. That's what you do, and be careful what the situation will be like after this law is passed. Please, if they wish to remove the problems that existed in the previous legislation, let us remove them by placing clearly and clearly the powers and obligations of all those acting in the executive procedure. I'm afraid, if this remains, that this will contribute to further abuses in the executive procedure and that many those who have no connection, have no influence, have no opportunity to reach the court to make their claims come true, be on their tail and wait years for their case to be taken into operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53857	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53858	I know the Ministry must have information about how an executive procedure is going on right now. It simply comes down to what Mr Palalic said, that a party or trustee, who has a judicial and judicial decision, must first of all pray that the court enforcer's plead to take the case into his work, to bring it to the executive judge, to go out in the field. Police assistance is often needed, etc. Indeed, there are no specific rules or order of settlement in that galatijas in a way that would require justice. It is certain that this provision will also provide an opportunity for influential creditors and influential lawyers to go to the court's enforcer and he will request consent from the president of the court. Of course, people who work in a courtroom, whether it's a judicial enforcer or a court president, meet daily, get closer to contact, and it can be one stalking scheme, which can greatly disrupt the meaning of everything that the ministry has done well and the ultimate intention. You know how, we live in conditions where in our society there are great opportunities for abuse. We always start from when we norm something that there will be no abuse or that it will be to the least, but believe me, the possibilities for abuse are always applied to the greatest extent in practice. So I think this proposal is appropriate. We also have a provision concerning parallel execution in front of some other state bodies. She's quite clear, quite precise, etc. It is indeed necessary to give a particularly good explanation that these are special circumstances, precisely because it is a good intention of the ministry, which is one good law, regardless of all these objections. And in the world, in developed and regulated legal systems, when the law on enforcement is amended and private enforcement is introduced, the same objections were. But since we have a situation today that really only 5% of the court rulings are carried out in terms of cash claims, then it clearly tells us that something has to change. As MPs, we have fully supported all this, but I fear that leaving this provision will really provide an opportunity for abuses in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53859	Three minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. This amendment has been accepted by the government, but the Justice and Administration Committee has not. Of course, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. During the debate in particular, we will also have an amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration. But now it is the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53860	I knew, Mrs. Comic, and without what you're saying, that these two committees wouldn't appreciate it, because as soon as they heard my last name, they refused. The amendment refers to the two positions of Article 9 which do not belong to the matter of the Implementing Procedure Act, but to the bankruptcy Act. It's an alphabet. I guess someone at the Ministry looked at it and said -- this really missed someone who wrote this bill for the wages. This will be my special question – how much money did you give to the authors of these regulations, which are normally prescribed from Slovenia and from some other former republics? But because of the public, there used to be "when it's hard for Covic", now the situation is completely different -- when it's hard to go to court and in court the wall. Since we're on the subject of bankruptcy, tell me, please, if after the adoption of this law it'll be better for people, let's say at the Shipyard in Apatino. There, some Lazarevic bought for some small money Shipyard, made some commitments, bought some more things in Serbia, transferred all debts to one company, caused bankruptcy. When you look at who's a bankruptcy trustee, you look at his firm again, and so on. Will this law prevent these games? He won't. He won't, he'll just channel them. It'll be under control. The chosen will be able to do it, and these others will not be able to do it. And this whole system of change only promotes one principle - who has money, will have health, will have justice, and whoever doesn't have money won't even be able to get to court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53861	Anyone else want a word? National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Justice and Administration Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the ministerial justice of Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53862	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we accept this amendment. Since there have been discussions and words about this amendment, I want to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to you what is actually accepted. Namely, because of the judgments that existed in the Strasbourg court, related to the suspension of proceedings, if we talk about claims from a working relationship, but not only on the basis of the Strasbourg judgment, but also on the basis of the position of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which is recently busy, such interruptions cannot be carried out under the Law on a litigation procedure. This amendment relates to this, and it is said that the provisions of other laws, which prescribe the termination or suspension of the enforcement procedure, will not apply in the enforcement procedure to be carried out on a proposal for enforcement, and in order to collect a cash claim from a working relationship. I would also like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a working group whose task is to determine the amount of the claim, the number of cases there are and that a particular proposal that we will be able to overcome this problem, since there are a large number of procedures and that the problem is open, and we want to act proactively. With that in mind, I'm going to look back at some of the discussions that were about this law. I want to remind you of the fact that we cannot have an effective court procedure unless we have an effective enforcement procedure. The analyses we did when we approached the creation of a brand-new law on enforcement and security say that the age of the executive procedure is about 442 days, that the duration of the enforcement procedure is on average around 260 days, and that the average in EU countries is 60 days, which means that we are much below the EU average. I believe this law will help us to have a more effective court procedure, because we've predicted some completely new institutes, we've predicted a different way of legal remedies. It has been shown that the biggest stalemate was precisely when an appeal was lodged in the executive procedure and when it was decided by the appeal. It used to take years, unfortunately. With this way, when a complaint is introduced, there is no appeal anymore, and when that complaint is decided within the same court, there are no more jurors. We've accepted an amendment where it will be greater than three professional judges, not two jurors. I agree with all the MPs who have submitted this kind of amendment. This law will contribute greatly, in my opinion, and I believe it will be, in business business. We can't have more investment growth, we can't have a favourable climate in business unless we have legal certainty, unless we can execute the judgments that have been made. As regards this law, the Council of Europe also gave its opinion and I believe that it contributes largely, on the one hand, to efficiency, but on the other hand, it does not violate the attainment of human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53863	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Given that it is an amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, that is to say, it has accepted it and agreed on it by a majority of votes, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, the representative, or the minister of justice, has adopted the amendment, thus becoming an integral part of the draft law. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53864	Article 10 refers to the application of the provisions of the Law on litigation in this law on enforcement and security and says that the provisions of the Law on litigation and security shall be applied accordingly, unless otherwise specified by this or other law. For legal and technical reasons, with the intention to edit the text of the law, we have suggested that this does not stand "if this or other law is not different", because such a provision always introduces inaccuracy, confusion, can lead to abuse, etc. Then he says, "The government does not accept the amendment for the reason it is necessary that in the enforcement and security procedure the Law on litigation as a system law is applied," it is not disputed, which is precisely why our amendment, "which regulates civil proceedings, provided that the bill or other law is not otherwise prescribed". So, if the Law on Legal Procedure is a system law, and it is, then it can't stand this argument either, or what you wrote in Article 10's proposal. So you deny yourself. Now we're wondering if it's based on some verdict in Strasbourg or based on the views of the Supreme Cassation Court, as you just said? Interestingly, what Mrs Malovic just said was that the age of the procedure was 442 days. It seems exactly how long it's been since the successful reform of the judiciary you've implemented, Mrs. Malovic, and then I don't see what the problem is. Either that reform is successful or it's not successful. How is it possible that after such a successful reform, the average execution will be 442 days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53865	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53866	Mrs. Malovic, you are the only one who complains about a failed reform of the judiciary, we will try to fix it through amendments, you accept, and then you will make it easier for yourself to do a little work. I was joking about this, of course. We're talking about an executive procedure. An executive procedure is one of the court's proceedings. You said some new institutions were being introduced, or institutes. We are deeply concerned by these new institutions and institutes. Article 12 regulates the basis for determining the execution. The enforcement shall be carried out on the basis of an executive document governed by Article 13, authentic documents regulated by Article 18. They define exactly what one is, and what the other is, and on that basis there is an execution. Article 12 says, "Execution shall be determined on the basis of an executive or credible document, if this law is not otherwise prescribed." We suggest after the point of point, to delete this "if this law is not otherwise prescribed". There is, therefore, none of the experts, nor any necessary reason for this to remain, but for the execution to be determined on the basis of an executive or credible document. I don't want to scare the citizens of Serbia now, but I would strongly recommend that because they owe Elektrodistribution, TV Serbia, or Public Service, municipal enterprises, if they had something to sell, that they could sell, that they would settle their obligations, because later, when they came, they would take the house and everything they had. In that regard, I suppose they didn't vote for such perpetrators, that they didn't vote for such a regime, so let them think, let them decide what to do next. Today, Mrs. Malovic, if you don't mind us going to Capca together, at 18 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53867	The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53868	Article 13 speaks of the Executive Correction, and we have made an objection to item 1 of point 2) where you have provided that an executive document, among other things, is a judicial, or final decision made in the administrative procedure, we believe that this is where the text should be completed, and you say - and the infringement procedure and alignment in the administrative procedure, if they refer to the fulfilment of the monetary obligation, etc., if the law is not different. Again, if the law isn't different, it's as if what we're doing isn't the law. Well, I guess everything has to be determined by this law. It's interesting that you don't accept the amendment because the amendment is, for legal and technical reasons, unsuitable for consideration. This formulation for as many years as we have submitted amendments and explain them we have never heard from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would be really good if at least these amendments that don't make any changes to the concept, but only legally-technically regulate the law, you accept. But, well, that's your definition. You have your concept, your right. The time will come that we will also have to put this law out of force and bring a completely new one in line with the SRS concept. I am truly sorry that after this amendment, I will not be able to continue to convince you, Mrs Malovic, and to explain to you why you should accept the amendments that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because I intend to move to Sabac soon, where I will join thousands of Serbian citizens there tonight, along with Serbian radicals, to protest against the regime of Boris Tadic and his intentions that Serbs will extradite to the Ustasha regime in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53869	People's MPs, I warned you to choose your own words and that the strong word does not reflect strength or arguments. However, when someone decides to do himself harm, unfortunately I can't help it, as I can't help people's MPs who think they don't want the rules to apply only to other MPs, not to them. So if you take the right to use the time that is intended for discussion in particular in order to express your political position, then you must count on the violation of the Rules of Procedure given to other political parties to return to the National Assembly in the days when the sessions were not conducted and when it was impossible to work in this room, so I warn you that these are not things that benefit you or your political goals, and in contrast with the basic rules of argument and debate in congregation halls. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53870	This amendment refers to the sub-title – the similarity of the enforcement document. It says – the executive document is similar to the execution if it lists the executive trustee, executive debtor, subject, type and extent of fulfilment of the obligation, unless this law provides otherwise. I ask that this "unless this law is defined differently" be deleted. This member marks, Madam Minister, when an executive document is similar to an execution. Here you list, as is the list, if you remember, what are the essential elements of the crime, for example, so it lists what are the essential elements that make one executive document similar to the execution, so it is said – that is the executive trustee, the existence of the executive trustee, the executive debtor, the subject of execution, the type of execution, the extent of execution. These are the essential elements that make one executive document similar to that of the execution. But when all of this is well-listed, what do you need this inaccuracy if it's not specified otherwise? I think it really makes this part of the article quite imprecise, that this is unnecessary and that this should be deleted. This reminds me overwhelmingly of that—unless otherwise ordered. I have the impression that a lot of things in this country are done unless otherwise ordered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53871	The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic jointly submitted the 18th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53872	I have submitted an amendment relating to Section 2. These words "officer duty" I think you should delete. Madam Minister, these amendments, which were previously referred to, would be good if, for technical reasons and better application of them were not introduced into the laws of confusion and ambiguity if words were repeated in a large number of cases in this law - if this law is not different. You know what that meant in the past? If there is a law in it to put certain holes, just say so – if the other law is not different. This is the logic of erasing and disabling ambiguity and that people in practice can't manage, because you had time, and I believe that you in the Ministry didn't have time, perhaps for a short period of time, to detailedly analyse these amendments. But these provisions point to one confusion. Those who make it easy to say it will not be able to do so, if the other law is not determined. Imagine how much time it takes for an executive judge to look into what law that law could be different. We have the Code of Criminal Procedure, the administrative procedure, the Law on Procedural Procedure, the non-partisan procedure, but, if it is said otherwise, if it is not laid down in the law of both the member and that, you refer to the judge and the executioner tomorrow so that it can be easier to comply with the law. Don't let this miss you. You have the authority, but give a little improvement to this text by accepting amendments that are logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53873	The word has an MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53874	This proposal, which was passed in law by the ministry, I think it's good and it's in the best interest of trustees. For what? Well, why should we leave only the trustee if the execution case and the means of execution are impossible to carry out? Why would it not be possible for the court to determine another subject or other means of execution? You'll have a court enforcer who'll come out on the spot, and there's a certain way, the means, the object of execution, say, a moving thing, it's a car, and it's in the meantime a crash, it's burned, it's stolen, or the owner, no matter what the subject of execution, has alienated it. Then the perpetrator must return and say to the party, well, do you want us to do it on another subject of execution? No, I don't. The contractor will find on site that the debtor owns another car, bus or any other means that may be the subject of execution and thus will settle the debtor's obligation. Therefore, I think this is a very good provision and that it should remain as it is written, because it is in the interest of the trustees.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53875	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53876	With this amendment, we just wanted to let it know that the practical court has reached a conclusion that determines the means and the subject matter of execution. That's always been the case, but most of all because of the following attitude, attitude 4, where you show your kind of dialectics, so instead of a bailiff, you go to this private executioner of yours, the executioner's racket. Because when it comes to private individuals, entrepreneurs with an innate sense of market business, then we can experience everything in practice by the perpetrators, who should remove all the misunderstandings and all the failures to reform the Serbian judiciary. I know that's not why the amendment was adopted. However, I must comment on the refusal of amendments to Article 2, where we have said that we are against the insertion of the perpetrator, which withdraws both their chamber and all of this, and then the Government replied that this is possible under the Constitution, and when it comes to criminal sanctions, it is carried out by the administrative authority – the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions. Does anyone at the Ministry know what the difference is when criminal sanctions are carried out and something is done in civil matters? Does anyone know what the theoretical difference is? You're announcing at the next stage of a private prison. The court ruling has an attribute of state authority, right? She commits everything. The state with its monopoly guarantees a commitment to everyone. How can an obligation be guaranteed to a private contractor? Well, even in the transformation and rationalization of the state, we're building new chambers, it used to be a mania with agencies, so a few months ago, you said that it was a bit of an exaggeration with agencies, and so on. When are you going to say it's gone too far with the chambers? A chamber like a hat for a profession. And what profession is the perpetrator? Yesterday you made a bauk out of a public notebook. Anyone with a high school and a three-month course has a super notebook. Now we're listening to epics here. When did the trustee write in his proposal for execution specifically what is the moving thing he wants the execution to be carried out on? A list of estimates and sales of moving things. Well, let the executioner find it. Is there a car now or isn't there? What would the trustee be interested in? We're listening to some fairy tales here to justify something that's legally impossible. It is a legally impossible concept of law on enforcement and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53877	The SRS parliamentary group has taken advantage of all the time available to it as a parliamentary group, with a minute used by MP Zoran Krasic, so that now all applicants of the amendment have two minutes, and the authorised representative is still five minutes away. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53878	Of course, this law is legally impossible because it's bad. Amendment to Article 20(6) Article 20 regulates entities - court, perpetrator and talks about the trustee. We suggest that the position of the 6th of this law be deleted, because it says – taking the actions of the 4th and 5th of this member can be subject to its special approval. Article 4 said – the executioner carries out on the basic means and objects of execution which are indicated in the solution of execution. Paragraph 5 says: to settle the same claim, what can be done. Article 6 leaves the possibility to the executive trustee that he proposes some new items for execution, which the perpetrator cannot accept, and then it becomes pointless, no matter what some academics think, even if it is a respected Chikiriz Academy. I think this amendment is perfectly logical and should be accepted, because it doesn't lead to anything. It is not possible to react on the spot at the request of the executive trustee, because the court officer does not have the authority he should have to meet the executive trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53879	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53880	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, we have heard many times in today's presentations of our colleagues that the ruling majority, especially DS, is passing laws that are not applicable in practice, while at the same time hearing that we are passing laws that cannot live and that will be imagination, which will not be able to achieve their practical application in everyday life. It's a very dangerous thesis from people who are constantly imputing that everything we bring here, we actually bring some dead letters on paper, because these laws don't live at all, that they don't apply, that they don't have their own term of duration and their applicability in practice. Because of these and those, I will read only two passages from the book "Parliamentary Procedural Law", and they concern, among other things, the way laws are passed and it is good that people are educated when it comes to legal science. It is not good that, as a graduate farm engineer, I teach legal studies, but because of those who are constantly accusing us of passing laws that are not applicable in practice, I will read only two sentences. "The law takes more care of reality than the desires and ideals of individuals. The law gave rise to the position of the legislator from the living reality of social conditions and human relations. The legislator's position is true to reality. His justification is for truthfulness and justification, he creates a guarantee and they are a real guarantee of the life of the law. The law contains an idea or attitude about the world and life in order to perfect human society and human relations. "In the end, it is said that every law has a beginning and an end. The beginning of this law is in the current life, and its end is certainly in future life, but this future life will not be with any changes in elections. This will be a law that will be applied even after many elections because we are passing quality laws that, above all, turn to the future and live in practice despite the insects of individuals, despite the criticism of individuals and despite the desire for these laws to be just a dead letter on paper. So we are passing those laws and laws that are in the way of our society, which are the need of our citizens and which, among other things, have a real need in everyday life, not in empty stories of people who are in every way trying to criticize all that the ruling majority is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53881	Two minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53882	The basic objection to the previous law on enforcement and to all previous that the judiciary and state protected more debtors than creditors. The second objection, which the minister explained earlier, is the slowness of execution, the long duration of execution. The third objection is the property of the executive debtor and all possibilities for manipulation not to be implemented. Now, just for the sake of the public, I will read the position of Article 20(4). The draft law on enforcement - the enforcer shall implement the execution on those means and objects of enforcement referred to in the order of execution, and where the means and the subject matter of enforcement are not specified, the executing authority shall carry out the enforcement on the basis of its own conclusion on the means and objects of enforcement most favourable to the settlement of the Executive Trustee. This is all in order to ensure that the settlement is carried out, that enforcement is carried out, and that the honourable colleagues are persistently seeking these amendments to slow down the enforcement procedure and to suspend the powers conferred upon them by this law, and to return to court again, that the court, in particular by some of its own proceedings, is of course, in a special procedure, to authorise the enforcement of certain other means, instead of those mentioned in the proposal for enforcement. So I think that this provision is really good, that it is for the purpose of protecting trustees and for the purpose of making the claims faster and more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53883	One minute and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53884	This is where I asked to be deleted in Article 20. That position 8 states that, when determining the means and objects of execution, that is, the court, that is, the executing authority, is obliged to take account of the proportionality between the level of obligations of the executive debtor and of the means and the subject-matter of the execution, i.e. the security. In its explanation, the Government says it is not accepted, bearing in mind that it is necessary to prescribe an obligation to take into account, when determining the means and objects of enforcement, the proportionality between the level of obligations of the executive debtor and the means and objects of enforcement in order to protect the rights of the executive debtor, in particular the property rights. So this argument reminds the wolf to be full and the sheep to be numbered. Is that okay here? Can the debtor be taken away from his property without being satisfied? The trustee here will be pleased, it's clear, and will that be the debtor? That's the basic question that's being asked here. The government would not only in this law, but in other laws, in some way, be both a grandmother and a girl. You can't do that. Here, to be clear, the debtor should pay the debt and no one slows down the fact that he who owes should pay the debt. But it is a special fact that the state of these same people is by its own actions, inactions, etc. in this series of 10-11 years, it has led them to be debtors in many cases. Made them owe not only to the state, but also to each other. So these are issues that need to be resolved systemically, not just individually or ad hoc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53885	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53886	I still don't agree with this amendment. For what? Of course, it is a priority to protect trustees' interests, but the perpetrator must also take care of the executive debtor. The case works, in practice the execution is carried out. Implementation can be carried out on basic means of working with which someone feeds his family, deals with production, and can be carried out on some luxurious things - furniture, luxury cars, etc. It is certain that it will not be fair to the executive debtor if his labor funds are taken away and a luxury car is left behind. So, first, you have to take away a luxury car and leave what a man does and feeds himself and his family. I think this provision is truly extraordinary and, I say, if the executive trustee is taken into account, the priority in implementing the execution is not to be boastful and to take care of the interests of the executive debtor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53887	One minute used by the MP's group. People's MPs are curious about how much more is available to the MEP for European Serbia. 13 more minutes. People's MPs who question how time is measured are free to check in a stenogram. Compared to time, I'm sorry everyone doesn't have time yet, but they don't. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53888	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted this amendment to the view that we cannot recognise foreign documents in this way as proposed in the law. I'd just like to point out what my colleague Chikiriz was saying earlier. Article 20, paragraph 4, states: The executioner shall implement a solution to those matters and executions which are listed in the solution and execution. Look, there's a lawyer, respected and famous and professional, who can interpret you, Mrs. Malovic, some things from the law. If the means and object of execution are not indicated, the execution shall be carried out on the basis of its own conclusion. Mrs. Malovic, you are unconstitutionally transferring the judicial authority to the perpetrator, who will be the one, as colleagues today have carried out, that persecution, terrorism, threats, beatings, etc. It's a person with no constitutional authority. You have now introduced the enforcer into this law, you have installed it, you propose it, but you are violating the Constitution and you are violating the judiciary. The judicial authority, Mrs. Malovic, is intolerable. Don't take this stuff lightly. When it is said that the executioner will most favourably achieve the order of execution, you have hereby destroyed the debtors and the creditors, if you adopt him as it is. Here's why. I'm telling you this from practice, in good faith. The perpetrator should now execute and implement the decision. He concludes, if at the first auction, a house worth 100,000 euros has not been sold, it lowers it to 30,000, with its own decision, without skill, without a judge. All I have is a guarantee and the SRS is looking into the courts. Judges are our guarantee and the Constitution is our guarantee of the achievement of basic human rights and protection. My esteemed colleague, Chikiriz, is stressing trustees' protection. For years I've stood up for it, but now we don't have to go to another extreme and debtors to put him in such a position that the property is sold to him in vain by an executor who isn't under the control of a judge. You see, the lawsuit has been under way for 20 years, the execution procedure initiated. Now if it cannot be realised in the first phase, the perpetrator gets the powers – he can sell, he can subtract, he can charge, but there is no control of the executive judge. We trust the Executive Judge and ask only the Executive Judge and the Executive Officer, and remove this one from this law, because this law will in practice experience a fiasco.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53889	A minute and 15 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53890	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have proposed in this amendment that a member be amended so that, on behalf of a country or an international organisation located in the territory of the Republic, only mutual security can be determined, i.e. on the basis of reciprocity. There are a number of lawyers in this House, there are lawyers who know what it means to execute a court-law. But we cannot execute other people's decisions and orders without our citizens being able to implement their decisions in other countries. Mrs. Malovic, did you accidentally worry about what happened to the judicial decisions that our citizens of Serbian nationality and Serbs have claims on the territory of the Republic of Croatia? Are you wondering if these decisions are being carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia? We should now allow strangers to come to us, bring judgment and we should easily execute it. It can only be based on an international contract based on reciprocity and reciprocity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53891	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic is coming out, but it doesn't matter. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23(5). It's a bill of law. This position reads: "The provisions of Articles 3 and 4 of this Article shall be applied accordingly in the case of transfer or transition of obligations, i.e. the subject of execution from the executive debtor to the third party after the decision on enforcement has been adopted. "I had the amendment that after the word "the object of execution" I would add the words "only with the consent of the trustee given to public or under the law of certified law". What are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for submitting this amendment? The main reason is the introduction of legal certainty and security of trustees. There are different consequences for the transfer of claims, as mentioned in Articles 3 and 4 of this Article, and different are the full consequences, both legal and any other species, of the transfer of obligations, as referred to in Article 5, paragraph 5 and to which I have submitted the amendment. It is not a problem if the executive trustee transfers his claim to a third party in relation to the executive debtor. There's no legal, and there shouldn't be any material consequences. There can only be psycho-emotional consequences in the executive debtor...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53893	Two minutes, thank you. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28th, MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53894	It is prescribed here that in the enforcement procedure, the court, or the executing authority, act solely on the basis of submission and other letters, and that the executing authority also acts on the basis of a court decision and general authority of the Executive Trustee, unless otherwise prescribed by this law. It's regulated here on the basis of which the executive trustee acts. What is it that binds the executive trustee, and on what basis does he act? These are, therefore, submissions and writings, that is a court decision and that is the general authority of the executive trustee. So when all of this is well foreseen in this attitude, what do you need -- if this law is not different? You know about restrictive and extensive interpretation. There is absolutely one restrictive interpretation here. So absolutely this part is unnecessary. This could lead to confusion with a court enforcer, not to mention those third parties you predicted would be appointed by a private enforcer. You know, those third parties can be all faces and practice will show what those faces are. It's usually going to be people who have the looks of big kalie around their necks, as kids say today, but the question is how much legal knowledge they're going to have. How many will they be within some legal frameworks and be able to behave legally? I'm sure he won't behave like that at all. I'm sure they'll only have one goal ahead of them, and that's to take from the debtor as soon as possible, in a way that will often be brutal, I'm sure of it, take what he owes. If that's the intensity of this law, then this interpretation of yours is fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53895	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53896	The esteemed Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, from the presentation of some of his colleagues in this debate, an ordinary citizen could conclude that the state of Serbia will hire mercenaries, criminals, racketeeres, people of suspicious biography and a suspicious past to do state work. That people will be victims of brutal kidnapping and robbery during execution, that there will be some violence and that practically some odors, long forgotten from the 1804th year, will carry out some selective justice, not to satisfy that justice, but to settle some of their own interests and, by carrying out the execution, to settle it for themselves and to realize some economic interest. It's a very dangerous thesis that aims at only one thing, to make a panic, to scare the citizens and to show that this heartless, merciless state doesn't care about anyone else, only about those who are strong, powerful and powerful. You know, execution will be done in both the Republic of Serbia and from now on and in the future exclusively in accordance with the law and with the applicable legal standards. There will be no kidnapping and there will be no robbery and no hiducia and that job will be done by Kučuk Ali and Mehmed Fočić Aga, the work will be carried out by those authorities who are qualified, trained, trained, professional, and above all will act in accordance with the law. At the same time, the state cannot protect its debtors without taking care of its creditors. The state of Serbia cannot, through these laws that we are now passing and adopting, take care of those who have sinned against the law without taking care of those who suffer injustice. That's right, sir, the sun would warm you up and we'd have public records, so if your resignations were beautifully recorded in those public notebooks, if you knew you were working, and not now here to cry and wheeze that you don't know who confirmed your resignations and that you're constantly calling for lost, you gave them to someone, but to have had public notes, take the resignations and contracts you have to the notebook, and not to the church and mosque to carry your resignations, and to swear there. Do it nicely in those organs that are competent, trained, so you wouldn't be going through the situations you're having right now, to put up with those conventions. Therefore, vote for these laws, you will make it easier for yourself, and only then for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53897	Two minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The Messenger of the people, John Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53898	Certainly one of the biggest problems in general in procedural law and in all procedures is the issue of delivery. It was indeed one plug that in a number of cases led to no proceedings being initiated at all, and even if it was launched, it lasted an extremely long time because of the different ways of avoiding the delivery of letters sent to the parties in the procedure. If something was the cause of the lengthy length of the execution procedure, not to mention the litigation procedure, it's delivery. What I'm saying is that this solution can be partially solved. We wanted to predict and cover all possible situations with our amendment, in addition to pointing out on the court's ad board within three days, unless it could be delivered unanimously to position 2, that it was possible to do so and by mailing and when mailing, within three days, was considered to have been delivered. Just in addition to the court’s advertising board, let it be the post office, that any possible possibility or problem, or failure of the executioner or supplier himself in this way be removed. That's the problem, because now we'll have private contractors. The question is how and how it will be implemented in practice. We've talked a lot about this concept here, and now we're listening to the controversy of who and what kind of people they're gonna be. There is no criterion, Madam Minister, how people will be chosen who will be engaged in the offices of private contractors. It's a key problem. And when we talk about honesty, about education, about the training of these people, I remind you of Article 336. The bill, which says - can be employed or hired by third parties who carry out individual actions in the name and for the account of the executioner. He's hiring. What faces? With what qualifications? What knowledge? I believe it will be people who can make the most of their debt, because the perpetrator will have a personal interest in hiring such a person, because he will be well paid to collect that claim as soon as possible. In the next members, we'll show where this string is best achieved, and that's for credible IDs. Trustable documents, among other things, are accounts, meaning everything public enterprises issue, i.e. those who have money. Those who have the most money will pay the most private contractors, and they will hire the guys with the kalams who will quickly push that debt away. Otherwise, if that is not the case, to remove all doubt, determine who may be the assistant, what qualifications, what knowledge, what dignity? Who estimates this dignity. In this case, it's the mere will of a private contractor to be hired by him. Any person can hire and the court has no chance of stopping him from doing so. You'll see what kind of problems will arise, huge problems, there will be fear. We are in favour of putting priority on executive creditors and Serbia should finally say, it is our priority, to get the right, and to charge the one who has the right to demand, not to protect the majority of debtors, but don't let it go into violence and that the executive debtors suffer for it. I'm afraid it's going to be a case with imprecise norms like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53899	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53900	I want to tell the public why, what was the cancer-earth execution and what most obstructed the execution, it's just the delivery of all necessary notices related to the execution and avoidance of reception of delivery. This law is truly an extraordinary solution. So the way to deliver both to natural and legal persons, advertising on the advertising board, and the difference between the DSS proposal and the proposal in the law is in the number of days. Approximately, the DSS requires that the deadline be reduced to three days, and the bill has five days. We think it would best be one day, but it's impossible and within five days, but God forbid it's all so, that it gets there to do whatever it takes to execute, to deliver neatly and to be based on the law. It is certain that such a proposal is much better than any previous proposal. As far as engagement is concerned, as is mentioned, of the debtors, of whether there is this danger, it is certain that it exists. Is this how it's done in the world? It's done. I would remind you that criminal law is clearly a precise way of applying force, not only in the executive procedure, but in any unlawful conduct and that surely if there are such cases, all of you, I think of all those whom you call debt seekers, and I believe that there will be these phenomena, will be subject to criminal responsibility and that it will also be, when one of them is stuck in prison and when he is held accountable, a warning that they are not acting in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53901	Two minutes of MP time was used. The 29th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53902	Generally, the laws proposed by this government are bad. We think they'd at least be applied to make it much less of a problem than we normally have in this way. Someone said we wanted to delay the execution procedure. Now you will see from Article 29's proposal who wants to delay the execution process. If you carefully analyze a member per member, then you can see that neither trustees nor perpetrators will benefit from this. Whether there will be some beatings, but they are not introduced by the state, it leaves through the perpetrators the opportunity to introduce such, private perpetrators, of course. Delivery; Article 29 regulates delivery to the executive debtor, of course, court submissions and is said, if the natural person is, in any way, and if legally, otherwise, or where, on what is registered with the Agency for Economic Registers as the seat, it shall be delivered to that address. If it is a natural person, then the executive trustee is required to deliver the exact address of the executive debtor. We have suggested that it be the MUP, where the records are usually kept, where the residences are, or the residences of our citizens. If he has an obligation to do so by an executive trustee, and he has problems with the collection of his claims, why do these laws and what it actually solves? Those who pretend normal, I would ask where the resignation of former MP Ferza Celovic was confirmed, in one day of an emergency procedure you realised. Whether she's certified in church or mosque, I'm not going into the motives of changing the MPs, especially what belongs to the Democratic-Sanca Party, but I'm just asking where it's been certified, and it's being realized. The Management Board had no doubt that the MP's resignation would be accepted and the MP would be replaced, only when the SRS asked for it, is the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53903	National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 29th amendment. People's MP Chikirizu, you're reporting under the previous amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53904	And in this amendment, I have recognized a more complicated enforcement procedure. For what? The amendment suggests that if the person is not found at the address which is the address of his residence, or registered in the MUP, a temporary representative from the list of lawyers should be appointed to the executive debtor. What does that mean in practice? This means that the court has to make a decision about setting up a temporary representative, setting up a lawyer, and they're also capable of avoiding admissions and we have a situation that we've had before. The decision proposed by the law is absolutely more effective. If there is no person at the address, the notice shall be made, or delivered to the court’s advertising board, and then all deadlines shall expire and no longer avoid payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53905	One minute of the MP's time was used. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53906	When it comes to this delivery, I think a new practice will be introduced here that will be disastrous in the execution process. I have some experience and my colleagues who work as lawyers have an opportunity to make sure a successful delivery can be made. Now, the executive procedure seems to be down to the delivery board, and if you don't find a man at home, the legislator here has to make sure, to protect the rights, the interests of the trustee, but at the same time the debtor. Imagine if the debtor went on vacation, no notice of a solution to the execution. The contractor will now hang on the ad board, and when five days pass, the man returns from his vacation and finds another owner in his apartment, says he bought an apartment. Do you care not only about one party, about both parties we must take care of. Especially if the ad board is near the toilet in court, where the parties don't set up. Now know what our parties are waiting for. They're waiting for the citizens of the really wrong norms, the wrong provisions and the other executioners to get out of this law, he's going to be the greatest evil. The bailiff is a god, no one else, if we want to execute court decisions. What are we going to experience with this bill? For years and years, ten years won't work out. Now we want on the basis of our impression, it is that we are truly the last in Europe to carry out court decisions. The question arises – should we now endanger the rights of debtors and creditors, to damage them, only to prove to someone that we have achieved efficiency in the litigation and execution process. This efficiency is going to come out on our citizens' heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53907	The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. Proposal for a law which speaks of the costs of the procedure. Namely, in order not to quote the attitudes we ask for to change, not in terms of time, not in terms of the amendment, given the text we propose to be an integral part of this article, I'm just going to say that we have proposed this amendment to make an amendment to Section 1. The bill, as well as Section 7, so, of course, we are the SRS, we accept this principle, and it cannot be otherwise, that the costs of the procedure are borne by the executive debtor. We wanted this amendment to in some way protect the executive debtor only in one case, when there was an unfounded proposal to execute. Then we proposed an amendment to delete the positions from 2nd to 6th. In paragraph 7, when the costs of the procedure were incurred in front of the executing entity, you proposed that the draft law determine the execution by means of a reasoned conclusion. We believe that what Mr Petar Jojic, an SRS MP, spoke of on several occasions, we cannot take away the court's right, even in these cases, to determine the costs of the proceedings. We have proposed in paragraph 7 that the costs of the proceedings be determined by the Court of Justice on the reasoned conclusion of the executioner. The essence of the amendment is about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53909	Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53910	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Minister, have consulted a number of people from the profession and from the practice of lawyers, on behalf of the SRS, suggested that the content of this Article be changed. Why? You don't have a provision here that speaks not only of the credibility of the I.D., but of the execution of the I.D. Obviously, you don't have a service to read and people who need to read the amendments, so that these amendments can really be assessed whether or not they work. We'll be here all day talking about some essential things. It's not about this side or that side, but we're looking at our citizens' interests equally. You in this article, as you have suggested, are putting into an unfavourable position both creditors and debtors. In this provision of this article there must have been a clause that guarantees, first of all, credibility, but, first of all, enforceability. If the executioner takes a credible correction and he figures it out, imagine, past the judge, past the council, he can tell whether it is similar to the execution or not. I don't think that's right. We have suggested that it should contain and oblige the executive debtor within eight days, and in mechanistic and check disputes within three days on the delivery of the solution to settle claims together with the determined costs. When it comes to costs, Madam Minister, you'll be in a difficult situation, you'll see how the costers will settle. The perpetrators will make peace with you by taking off half the price in agreement with the trustee or even allowing the law at 30%, but the sale is the most favourable. The most favourable sale will be 10% of the value of one thing. Imagine especially when it comes to real estate. You give authority to the executor that he evaluates your house. He comes and takes pictures and says, "If it's worth 100,000 euros, in my personal opinion it's worth 10,000 euros, I sell, I finish the case, I achieve efficiency, and in this way I agree with the trustee to take a commission. Crime will be huge. I wouldn't want those sliced gorillas to be found in the name of the executioner. I beg you once again, do not walk away from the Constitution, do not walk away from the court. The Executive Judge is a god in execution, there is no other god. If you step away from the law and the Constitution, everything is suspicious, and I repeat, we trust only the court, the sworn judge, and not these officials who will be a very big problem in our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53911	A minute and 15 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53912	Probably this amendment was discussed in the government this afternoon, the concentration fell, so it wasn't adopted. What is the purpose of this amendment? That the solution is brought to court. Well, you don't accept that, but in Section 3, that leaves the court's conclusion, so the verdict comes to court, huh, ha, ha, but let's not talk because this can be tragic. What exactly is this about? You can also achieve efficiency in the judicial enforcement procedure if people work in accordance with the law, unless political interests dominate, organised crime interests and those who are rich in privatisation and create power. They create this to protect their capital. Here will be the principle - you have the money alive, you don't have the money, and we who have it will earn at your death. It is a natural consequence this time towards the EU and NATO pact. Is it possible that there is not enough guarantee of police assistance in carrying out the execution, that's the message. That's why people with potassium can do the job very effectively. You're going to raise your hand and say, "Kylea is a legal, legal means of exorcising debts." So, you left your apartment today, when you get back from your vacation in your apartment, there'll be Mr. tycoon. Well, respected citizens of Serbia, that's something that's quite certain, that teaches us the eleventh-year trip to the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53913	Two minutes. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53914	Dear colleagues, we once again point out that we believe in the institutions of the state and that it would be necessary for you to do the same, but here you recognize the impotence and the Ministry of the Interior, and the judges and all the state official bodies you've chosen. What's this about? You have no security, because you know what kind of candidates you've chosen, what kind of candidates you've directed. We have submitted an amendment to Article 38. It's a bill of law. It's about delivering an execution solution. In attitude 1, it is said how and how it is done and where it is delivered. This isn't about one essential question, this is simply about one technical question. We wanted there to be no confusion, that attitude 3, to which this amendment applies, be completely clear to everyone. It is now in the bill of law – a solution to the execution of movable things and a conclusion on the discharge and surrender of immovable ones, thought of things, but it does not say, is delivered to the executive debtor immediately before taking the first action, unless this law is different. We have suggested that this "unless this law is defined differently" be deleted. This isn't some conceptual difference, this is really a technical question. What different differences could that be, how else could this be prescribed to deliver this solution, and what does it essentially mean that it has to stay right here in this bill? No, it's just that you don't want to accept the amendment in principle. Nothing would be too terrible to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53915	The 39th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment, with the correction of 7 April 2011, was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if the aim of this law is to solve a really big problem in our judiciary, and that is the slowdown in the process of enforcement of judicial decisions, we believe that this proposal will not solve this problem. It will not solve it for the simple reason that it provides for a solution that will continue to slow down the current dispute. Namely, that's what this amendment applies to. We believe that instead of a three-day deadline, which has been foreseen by the law so far, it is not established to introduce a five-day period, because the procedure of enforcement is being unduly extended. I don't know what the logic of all that was. If we know a five-day deadline is being introduced, it means seven days. In the event of a holiday, that deadline can, of course, be much longer. This solution reminds me quite overwhelmingly of the solution that led to the very reform of the judiciary, which is to achieve greater efficiency in the conduct of our courts. Not that it was not achieved, but it had just experienced its exact opposite. Instead of more efficient court proceedings, we have received a drastic reduction in the number of courts, a drastic reduction in the number of judges and a drastic increase in the number of cases per judge. I think there will be a similar solution in this bill to speed up the enforcement process. Furthermore, what is the problem here is the problem that will further slow down the execution process, which is inadequately regulating the problem of delivering letters to the executive debtor. We have proposed an amendment, which we believe was needed to accept, because that would make this issue much better regulated. As my colleague Jovan Palalic pointed out in the debate so far all the other problems recorded in this bill, I will only mention that the huge problem, in our opinion, and the transition, i.e. the transfer of these public powers to private perpetrators, but he talked much more about it, so I would not hold on to it. If you'll excuse me, I think it would be a good idea for me to take advantage of my time as an authorised promoter now, and I would no longer answer today after this debate. I'll just say a few words about the draft law on public records. It is that yesterday we discussed this law, quite in detail, it was a quality discussion, but I think I should give some of my final consideration to the bill in general. The law on public notebooks, as I said in the principle debate, is a necessary law and it is good to have it brought. We support the idea of the adoption of the law on public notebooks, simply because we believe that there will, however, be a huge dispensation of courts in respect of all those actions that they would otherwise be obliged to do, of course, because of the introduction of greater security in legal traffic and ease of evidence. I have to express my doubts and my disdain that if we've waited this long for this law to be passed, I think we could have waited a little while longer and he was fully regulated. Mostly because I believe that some parts of this law are not in the clearest way formalized, they are, more precisely, inaccurate, while in other parts of this law, they are outstretched. I think that as a good basis for making this law could also serve this law on public notebooks from 1930, which has only a few pages, which is a very modern law during the time it was passed, which was a very short, very precise law that respected all the good features of the Latin system of notaries. I think today's lawmaker could have this text of the law in front of him when he passed a law like this. Of course, our biggest regret is, that's what we discussed yesterday, the problem of just naming public notebooks. We believe that the minister has huge powers in this regard, not only when it comes to the appointment of public notebooks, but also when it comes to regulating all important issues in the field of public notation. First, the minister is scheduled to appoint a public notary as a solution, and that the fact-finding process is dedicated to only a few members, namely five members, which we consider to be very bad. It is also not good that we today do not have a law in front of us that would clearly quote what criteria these are and what are the criteria that the minister applies at the time when he decides to appoint public notebooks. If I'm not mistaken, of those five members of the law, this is only one attitude. It's particularly problematic what we also discussed last night, which is the appointment of the first public notebooks, and why did the legislator define himself as a solution to name them a table in that first cycle? Yesterday I realized your opposition to such a single solution, but you didn't convince me that you were right. In particular, you did not convince me that in the bill itself, you had predicted that the first hundred public notebooks would be elected, or appointed on the basis of the criteria of the territory of the basic courts. If you have already written that in the law itself, then it should be understood that you will name them 34, how many of the basic courts we have in Serbia. Also, I think it would be much more rational and, in any case, more justified that we have left this procedure for the appointment of public notebooks to the National Assembly. You will surely agree with me that in that case the appointment procedure would be much more transparent than the one we have today. Given that the appointment procedure is very inaccurately regulated, since it provides and leaves the possibility of a great deal of arbitraryness in the decision-making process and since it does not remove doubts about the impartiality of the elections itself, it is our opinion that the presence of the Anti-Corruption Agency from the very beginning of its entry into this procedure would be necessary. It would be necessary, at the very least, and because I am the minister of justice, as someone directly responsible for the appointment of public notebooks, would not be able, or in a situation that later, when the whole process of appointment of public notebooks is over, proves its impartiality. Therefore, I think it was very important to provide for the presence of the Anti-Corruption Agency, primarily because everyone knows that the job of a public notary is extremely well paid, it will be well paid to us, but it is well paid everywhere, in all countries where such an institute exists, and that, inevitably, when the appointment of public notebooks itself is made here, great interests will be broken. In addition to all these inaccuracies in the bill, unfortunately there is insufficient attention to regulation of the public record exam. I don't think it's a good idea for this question to be subsequently defined by the rule that you're going to bring. It is also unclear that the status of those persons who completed specialist studies in public law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and who had the opportunity to gain their knowledge from top professors who, in the end of the day, took part in writing this text of the law. We also feel that the very text of the proposal for this law leaves out the provision of compulsory attendance of a public notary academy, because we believe that it would make it clear that ensuring the high expertise of public notebooks is necessary. When we look at this whole bill, we don't even know who's going to make a competition commission. Yesterday there was controversy about it. I support what you said last night, and I'd love to, but there's no guarantee in this bill of law. We believe that the competition commission should be composed of representatives of prominent lawyers, professor of law schools, judges of the highest court in the country. Also, we do not even know on what criteria public notebooks will be appointed and what kind of vocational education they will be. The only thing we know from this bill is that they will be appointed by the minister, based on criteria and criteria which will obviously be known only to him. That's why this bill isn't good, we don't support it. One valid concern remains that this entire service will be subordinated to the executive, which is also not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53917	You have one more minute at your disposal as an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53918	When you talk to one of the lawyers about these matters, it is not difficult for a person at some point, if he sees that someone in the face of these opinions has expressed an opinion that may be stronger or more justified in the law, to admit it. However, when someone who, as the saying says "mells everything", becomes an expert and for the right, for the economy, for philosophy and for the EU in particular, it is not good, then it is like that – if vo knew he was drawing, you know what his deity would look like, the ox. The reasons for not accepting this amendment show that it was done in haste, mechanically and without respecting the essence of the matter. In my explanation for erasing this attitude, I say that the amendment to Article 39, paragraph 1, provides a supplement. So on Article 39, this supplement is proposed. In your explanation, you're saying that article 39 generally refers to an objection against an execution solution. So you haven't even read it. You don't look back at what I say in an explanation at all. But it's not the first time. I am sure that the period of validity of this law, as well as many other laws that you have proposed here since the beginning of that reform of the judiciary, is very short or, let me say, is limited, only to that period until these so-called. They don't finish their jobs, they don't take the last penny from those people who owe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53919	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53920	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I could not accept this amendment. Why, I'll read Article 40, paragraph 4. The law on enforcement and security, which reads: "The objection does not delay the execution of the solution unless otherwise prescribed by law". The amendment said to delete this member. This completely undermines the overall concept of lawmaking, which refers to making the executive procedure more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53921	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Petar Jojic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted these amendments, the Legislative Committee believes that amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendments have become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. You have one minute and 15 seconds at your disposal as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53922	Madam Minister, did you even know, when you proposed this bill, that they should be tried in the second degree jurors, the laymen to judge and participate in decisions where values may be hundreds of millions? That's why we suggested this, and it's good that you accepted, you noticed. On the other hand, this law does not speak well of the fact that your MPs have also noticed a number of illogicalities and irregularities and that this will not produce any valid results in its execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53923	You have another 45 seconds as an authorised representative. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53924	In 2000, Madam Minister, in the Implementing Procedure Act, we dropped the lawsuit, so that a lawsuit against an executive and judicial court ruling could be initiated. Now you see the third person's involvement in the executive procedure. Do you know how much this way you're slowing down the executive procedure? The third face will always bother you now. The third person has the right to have an executive trustee, who owns an executive and credible right, has a court ruling, has waited 20 years and is now allowing a third party to delay and in this way abuse the right, and the judge will say – if he makes it likely, I will allow him to file a lawsuit, but also to include the trustee. What do you do now? Madam Minister, I believe you can understand this. This needs to be lifted, because a third person will slow down your executive procedure. Ask the professional public, ask the judges and lawyers. You're saying we're going to achieve a higher degree of executive procedure. We're not gonna get to him. If we allow a number of third parties to participate in the executive procedure, to interfere with it, and the man has conducted 15-20 years of litigation and has been unable to wait for the verdict and the third party is now in agreement with the debtor – let's make a lawsuit now, let the lawsuit go to court and now we'll have another 10 years of litigation. It doesn't make sense. I think you need to break up with this practice. You see what it's like in Germany and in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53925	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment adding a new member of 50a after article 50a. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 51st amendment has submitted to the 51st amendment, progress on Serbia. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 51st Amendment with corrections since 7 April 2011, were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53926	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have proposed that this amendment be placed on the ground "at the height of the executive demand and the executive procedure" in Article 54, paragraph 1. In paragraph 4, after the word "equity" is added, the words "in the amount of fines and the cost of execution at the collection of fines". By a provision of Article 20. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been guaranteed human rights and their level reached cannot be changed or reduced. All national authorities, and in particular courts, are obliged to take care of the essence of the right to be limited, the importance of the purpose of the restriction, the nature and scope of the restrictions, the relationship with the purpose of the restriction, and whether there is a way for the purpose of the restriction to be achieved by a smaller restriction of law. This applies to both the right and the property, so the proposed solution is intruding right into the property, as one of the basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the international convention ratified by the Republic of Serbia. In the part relating to the property of the executive debtor, which is greater than the executive demand and the costs of the executive procedure, it is contrary to the Constitution and international conventions to force the executive debtor to provide information on the property for which it is not obliged, in particular bearing in mind that the draft law provides for the establishment of a public register of executive debtors. This means that any person, contrary to the law and the Constitution, would have an insight into the total assets of the executive debtor, so that he is obliged to be in the value of two hens. That's how you go. We protect both the property and the rights of our citizens. I think this amendment should be accepted to improve the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53927	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53928	I knew Mrs. Malovic would get away from me. She signed a decision to extradite Karadzic. Article 55 — Procedure for obtaining a declaration of the property of the executive debtor. Article 54 — initiation of the procedure, Article 55 — making a declaration. We have asked the amendment that when a statement of property is made, it is not only about the amount of claim and how much it should be said for the execution solution, but also about the part with which the costs of execution could be settled. We got the answer, probably written in the afternoon, but just to see how that shiny brain works. A moment ago, Mr. Munjic submitted the amendment and asked for Article 40 to delete Article 4 – the objection does not delay the execution of the solution. He received an expert response, without having had the answer in mind what it said in the previous three attitudes. The previous three statements speak of an objection against the execution solution. First position, that the objection can be filed by both the trustee and the debtor. Second, that the trustee may object to the costs of execution. The third position, that the trustee may object if the proposal for permission to execute is rejected or rejected. In the fourth position, it is said that the objection does not delay execution. Please, you wouldn't even pass a medical examination for a driver's license. So if he objected because he was rejected and rejected, the execution is not conducted. What's the point of attitude 4, aman, people? Just to whine towards Brussels. You guys see what kind of mental danger it is when someone pathologically wants to go to the EU? Not in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53929	National MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gordana Pop Lazic submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53930	In Article 58, since it refers to the content of the property statement, of course, the court calls on the executive debtor to make a statement on his property, it stands here on the total assets, we have suggested that this refers to the level of the value of the executive demand and the costs of the executive procedure. We believe it is unnecessary and unnecessary if it is a monetary or any other claim, which may be in the amount of several thousand, that the executive debtor must make a statement about his total assets. That doesn't make any sense. In an explanation for why the amendment is not accepted, it is said that it is not known exactly what the value of the assets, or claims, and then that the executive trustee would be more confident that they would be charged. Of course, anything to make a statement, that's exactly what we're making, and we're absolutely right. We say the value of the property is up to claim plus court costs. It makes no sense to enter into some privacy that has nothing to do with the executive procedure. We believe that this amendment does not disturb your concept, which is wrong, nakaradan and none, and that the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53931	The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (Petar Jojic, from the post: When accepted, means it is cleverly written by the SRS. ) The National MP insists that the amendment is cleverly written by the SRS. People's MP, amendments are written by MPs. The Constitution stipulates that the applicant for the amendment is a People's MP. I have had a dilemma several times during my session whether I should start reminding the MPs not to break the Constitution and not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, saying sentences – I am putting up with it in the name of the party because it cannot. The applicant for the amendment is a People's MP. The legislator is a national MP, not a political party. Not on behalf of the political party, nor on behalf of the parliamentary group, can it only on his own behalf. That's how the Constitution set it. You don't have time for two minutes, because the amendment has been accepted. He's become an integral part of the bill and there's no such thing as a search. You have 45 seconds as an authorised representative. If you want to use it, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53932	Madam Vice President, I'm an MP for the SRS. I'm not ashamed, and I said it, and I shouldn't have to bear any sanctions, and I shouldn't be prevented from saying it in that part. That's what all MPs have the right to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53933	The Messenger of the people, or any of you who punishes you, or any of you who makes it impossible for you to speak. You just got your word. I've just reminded all of us of what a MP can do, what a group of MPs can't and can't party to, and unfortunately, it's a practice we tolerate. The amendment shall be submitted by the People's Messenger. The draft law shall be submitted by the Members of Parliament. None of us dispute pride and satisfaction that we belong to the political parties we have chosen by our own free will, and we are all proud of the political parties we belong to, but we submit the amendments by name and last name. That is how the Constitution prescribes, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure. Neither the amendment nor the law on behalf of the party, but on behalf of the MP. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53934	Article 62 refers to a solution to the entry in the book of executive debtors. On paragraph 4, we have submitted an amendment which reads: If, after the entry into the same case, the basis for the new entry is based on other facts, the court will reach a solution within five working days of the new entry and at the same time determine that the earlier entry is deleted. In the event that the statement on the property of the executive debtor is subsequently only completed (Article 57(3)), the earlier entry will not be deleted but the solution, within five working days, will determine that the supplementary statement on the property is attached to the collection of documents on earlier registration. We are proposing this for purely practical reasons because the proposed standard of that attitude is not a given time limit within which the acting judge has to make a solution to the entry into the book of executive debtors, which is of great importance to conduct the executive procedure and protect the interests of the executive trustee, since it is possible for the debtor to alienate property in a relatively long period of time, and later create problems for the realization, or for the execution and reconciliation of obligations to the executive trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53935	Members of the 63rd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53936	I suggested adding the word "no" in Article 63(4) after the word "refuse" was added. The proposed solution is contrary to the principle of urgency on which the proposed law is based and leads to a delay in proceedings, obstruction and exercise of the Executive Trustee's right and is directly contrary to Article 6. The proposal for a law containing an emergency standard and otherwise a basic task of the executive procedure, in order to settle the request of an executive trustee as soon as possible. In any case, this amendment should be adopted here, so I suggest that the minister consider and assess whether there is any need or no need, and we believe that this amendment has a basis and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53937	The 64th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53938	This applies to the book of executive debtors. The intervention we're proposing is really small, but we think it's very important. This is the final position, paragraph 5, where this is said to be the case – in the event that the executive debtor fulfils the obligation, the court may request a statement from the Executive Trustee. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe the words "to the court's minutes" should be added. I don't know why this isn't accepted because when a statement is taken on the court's record, then, if I can say, the most correct way and the most credible way with an attribute of power is to take a statement that the debtor has fulfilled his obligation and that later no one can deny it in any way at all, and when only the court obliges the executive trustee to deliver a statement on whether the debtor has fulfilled his obligation, so he writes a letter or has to go to the public notary to verify that statement, then the situation is quite complicated and may be the cause of some new disputes. I do not wish for these disputes, but they are possible and therefore I do not think that any problem is that this amendment is adopted because there is no better and more authentic way for the court to determine the fact that it takes a statement from the Commissioner directly on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53939	The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53940	I suggested that article 70 be re-arranged and item 3 deleted. The proposed norm contained in paragraph 3 of this proposal is unclear, inaccurately formalised and allows for a number of abuses by the perpetrators, which is defined as the entrepreneur in the bill, i.e. a natural person whose work does not correspond to the Republic of Serbia. Since it is not prescribed by this proposal that the executioner must have a significant value or that it is ensured by the relevant institution that it can compensate for the damage caused by the parties in the executive procedure, it is possible that the damage which the executing entity is making is irrevocable. The provisions on its powers must therefore be quite clear and precise and its responsibility in the executive procedure must be determined, as well as the possibility of the damage caused. For example, the perpetrator has caused damage to the parties about 50,000 euros and does not possess the property of that value, nor is it secured from damage to that amount, nor does this bill oblige him to own property or insurance of the relevant institution, so the question is who will pay for the damage, as the bill does not prescribe that the Republic of Serbia pays for this damage, which is a serious failure of this law. Such an perpetrator will be tempted to do harm to the parties in the proceedings. He shouldn't be allowed to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53941	Thank you. Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53942	In Article 72, paragraph 3 after the word "face" is placed instead of a point and the words "and by the actions carried out the rooms lock and seal, and in case it is violently open to change the lock from the front door and those rooms and lock it". Madam Minister, look what happened in practice. The law said that the perpetrator needed violently to enter a person's room. By order of the judge, the room opens, things are written, the record is made up, he comes out, and he says, "Wait, man, so lock the room, close the room." He says, "I'm sorry, I don't have the authority to lock, I have the power to open the lock violently, but I don't have the authority to change the lock and I don't have the authority to close the door and seal it." So the property of the debtors remained unsecured, exposed to theft and risk. Now you see what happens in practice. This is what lawyers, lawyers, professional people who have experience and executive judges believe that this would never have happened and that would have been prevented, but you're not familiar with it because you didn't have it in court practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53943	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53944	A colleague Jojic, as a man with a rich legal practice, has been doing this job for over 30 years, has had the opportunity to see what it looks like on the ground and has actually explained this amendment on my behalf. I think he did it well, and I'd only remind him that this is an emergency execution, when the executive debtor is not present, not when he's present. I suggested that in point 3 of the post-point point 3 be placed stuck and that it should be added that the obligation to lock, seal, in case it is violently open to change the lock from the front door of that room and lock it. It's the obligation of a court executor or perpetrator at all. He said what happens in case you don't do it like that. It leaves the apartment or property of the man who's had it for years, left open, that everyone can, and today they break into a locked room, and what do you think if someone leaves it unlocked? Madam Minister, you weren't prepared to accept such an amendment. He's just helping, just providing the property you've entered, getting what he owns, and the rest he needs to keep, he needs to keep an eye on. If we are not able to preserve what the executive debtor has acquired, then it is certain that in the execution process itself, which we are persistently talking about and why we have submitted this number of amendments, surely you will not do this job in quality, I do not mean you, you will not do this, you are the head of the Ministry. Just say, this statement by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court that there will be no problem with those judges who have not been elected in the ordinary procedure, he says - there will be no problem coming back now, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53945	The 72nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53946	New Serbia has submitted an amendment in Article 72rd position 3 after the word "full-age persons" the words "and locksmiths" are added. That might sound a little silly when something is passed into the law because that's the word "locker," but why? Why is that a problem? Reason: A court enforcer is not required to possess a tool and knowledge that enables him to open his apartment violently. This is how it's important to specify this shop, and it's the law to predict it. You're in line for why you didn't accept the amendment said you'd handle it by sublaw. Of course, that's an explanation for my colleague, Sredo Peric, why the amendment was not accepted. This is one specific, Minister, situation. Believe me, in practice we're dealing with this problem, and just if we've ruled it out, for example. You know, if we want to speed up the process, what we're going to do at that point if the executioner comes, regardless of the sublegal act, is make a law of law, it's a good thing. Believe me, I don't see any reason why he's fundamentally changing, whether he'll get rid of it. Well, I guess there's a stronger power if it's legally binding in this part of the executive procedure. I think it's a good solution to speed up execution. I think you really need to accept this amendment because it's meaningful, because it's the wish of us who suggested it to fix the law, without any interference in the essence. It is much better by law to make a commitment to this one word that, apart from the adult face and locksmith, he will be present, and then it will be concrete. And related, and if you need to close and open, what my colleagues have been saying before, this amendment solves everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53947	Tell me, did you use the time of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative? (Srdjan Spasojevic, from the place: As you wish. ) Thank you for your confidence. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53948	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, I cannot believe myself that he has such a proposal and such men to invent something contrary to the law and constitution. Namely, the use of the police in an executive procedure can only be decided by the court as a state authority, not by a court enforcer, as well as by an executive entrepreneur, or by a natural person to whom the powers of the court are conferred by law. Such solutions cannot be accepted in any case. This proposed provision violates the guaranteed constitutional rights of citizens, the powers of police as authorities of coercion that put the authority in a position to engage the police against the Constitution and the law as a private service, if it requires a person outside the court's order. Please, how do you give the right, who just invented it? What's this new thing that the police are now able to hire an executor? Only an executive judge and a court of law can do that. You are now transferring powers to the executor, constitutional powers of the police, constitutional powers of the judge and the court to a single debtor, a gorilla who can appear in execution tomorrow, and he does whatever he wants. He says, "I've got powers, the law has given them to me, I'm an enforcer." He's the executor and he can do whatever he wants. Mrs. Malovic, without a court and judge, there is no absolute guarantee of the exercise of human rights and the security of the rights of our citizens. Don't water this. I suggest you adopt this amendment. You don't have to do this for me, but you adopt him to improve the text of the law, so we don't get into a situation where every dwarve there is pulling the police by the sleeves and going to the execution and these kind of assistances.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53949	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 73rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53950	This is about exemption from execution. In point 3, the erasure of which I seek, says – the money of an executive debtor who has permanent monthly incomes up to the monthly amount that is legally excluded from execution, shall be proportionate to the time until the next receipt. First, there's a lot of inaccuracy in this article. The question arises – what is the law here? So it's an absolutely imprecise member. What's the amount of money you're talking about? You can't see that. Have you thought here that applying this member, as well as many other members of this bill, could lead to abuse? But I'm saying that the whole concept of this bill is, his whole concept is designed to be misused. You're bringing in private contractors here, bringing in people who'll do something that's never been the job of a private person. What are you doing next? They can now engage third parties, there are new circumstances, without any indication of who these third parties are, without any indication of what all these third parties can do, what their powers are, etc. It's just that here in this bill of law, it's part of the promotion of a Kyle execution. Was that your motive? I don't know, I guess not, but you'll see in practice that this will be true. When something's in practice...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53951	Two minutes. Thank you, Mr. Lightning. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 88th amendment. This amendment was also accepted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53952	In the amendment, we asked for the perpetrator to be kicked out of these two positions, but since it is so inspiring what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, just to introduce you -- money, securities of value and valuableness, will be handed over to guard on a court deposit or on an executor. How about the executor, the Kyle guy? That's the same thing in point 4. However, you forgot the spare thing, and that notebook of yours last night, and he has a deposit. And he's taking the deposit. And Cane Sobotić takes the deposit. And Chume's getting into a deposit, and he's doing a good job because he's got a kaila, except he's got a police rally, so he can walk around and close the contracts. These are all European values. I'm just reminding you. Don't be ashamed of it. It's commendable. That's why your popularity is jumping. It's amazing to see your popularity. I heard he bought this university, too, so now the Chums are going to educate people for the perpetrators. There's no problem. He's got experience. He doesn't need to assist the police at all. It'll end. You know what's most important? The most important thing is that after all these laws, these four that we put on the agenda, the unique one, will be much better for the citizens. I call on all those from "Europe Insurance" to report to Mrs Malovic, she will soon finish it, as there are new laws now, new regulations, the state will be far more effective than it was a rotten state a year and a half ago. I also remind these other, Belgrade Robing Houses, all those who object, all those who believe that existing laws do not allow their aspirations to be realised, to address the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Ministry has been trained, armed with European regulations. After these laws, European milk will flow among Serbia. Everything's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53953	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53954	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I just love it when someone invites all the damaged citizens to come forward and try to exercise their rights. I am sorry that he forgets those who robbed pyramid banks during 1998, 1999 and 2000, which also worked at that time, also illegally and damaged many citizens. After the Dafiment Bank and Jugoscanka such banks existed in Krusevec, Kraljev, Vranjačka Banja, Trstenik, Cicevic and those citizens were robbed. But those who were ministers back then don't invite those citizens to be compensated. Those who were then responsible for the work of these banks are now bending their heads as I speak, looking at the floor and at the ground, and doing so rightly, should be ashamed of them because they have made it possible to rob, kidnap and chaos in this country. Of course it doesn't suit them with the introduction of order. Of course, they are the biggest opponents of the introduction of order into this country and they can only implement their policy in a state of chaos, only in a state of madness and only in this state of chaos they know best politically to act, only then they grow the popularity of every day, only then they stand in front of the mirror and say that we are great, powerful, smart and strong and how high we are when we climb onto the people's money robbed. (President: You will now bring it into contact with the amendment that is subject to this debate. Please. Of course. So I don't understand why some people who talk about this time look at the floor and why when they talk about these amendments speak this way, with the desire to challenge those laws that will prevent such chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53955	I ask all the Members of the People to speak on the agenda and to keep the Rules of Procedure strictly, so that we do not come into a situation to interrupt, warn and so forth. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You didn't recognize yourself in these words, Mr. Milivojevic. Members of the 91st Amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53956	As regards Article 92, we have proposed that, at the same time as the list of things, they should be assessed only if the executive trustee and the executive debtor agree on their value. What happens if you don't? If the assessment is not carried out immediately in the presence of both parties, someone will be damaged. That is why we suggest that this can be allowed as proposed, but only if both parties are present to give consent because otherwise the real estate goes away, are the things and assets of the debtors gone to waste. Ms. Malovic, since you are in favour of the efficiency of the judiciary, what does this provision bother you to oblige an executive judge not to call his cases in drawers, but if he does not act within five days to be considered to be contrary to the provisions of the Law on Judges? You want efficiency? You will now have judges who will hold dozens and hundreds of cases unfinished in the drawer. You set deadlines here for nothing, but if the judge doesn't carry sanctions that don't work that way, you'll be free of charge and free of charge. They will not be effective and effective in the executive procedure will not be raised, because the executive judges will have freed their hands to do whatever they want, as they have done so far. Some, I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53957	The 92nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53958	Article 95 regulates time to sell moving things. We've actually accepted what's in the basic text by amendment, and most importantly this is about deadlines, 15 days, or 30 days. I agree that there is a problem with those things where they threaten to be corrupt and that it implies a different procedure, regardless of whether the executive trustee or executive debtor agree on the value of the movable things to be executed. Apropo of this beautiful and lively discussion today, I must remind the public that in 1993 I was Vice-President of the Survey Committee for the Determination of Truth on Old Foreign Savings, "Yugoscanika" and "Dafiment Bank". Then the SRS published a book called "What took the Left without knowing the Right." All the stenograms have been published. Of course, as an opposition MP who fought back then against those who were in power, not to mention who was in charge of you, but I would ask Mr. Novakovic that when someone goes on a break-up like that to go with a big cut, to just rip him off, to remind him that the elemental thing is that coalition partners at least a little respect. If something is not clear, it goes to the library, because someone boasts that he is a member of the library or goes to Ivica Dacic, and has a nice conversation with him, he was a spokesman at the time, he can also talk to Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, there is an exact list of people, but there is no radical that has anything to do with it. This nonsense is good for me because I have long since Mr. Milivojevic, and nothing without Milivojevic, declared that he is a spokesman for Boris Tadic. Dear viewers, when Boris Tadic speaks, when Srdjan Milivojevic speaks, there is no difference, in iot. Srdjan Milivojevic is an idea creator of DS. He designs speeches by Boris Tadic. No one can touch him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53959	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 96. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53960	In this Article 96. I asked the bill to delete certain words, in the first word "executor", in the position of the 4th word "or persons who perform commissions of affairs" and in the 5th word "persons who perform commissions of affairs, mobile things are sold on their behalf and for the account of the executive trustee", so that all these words are deleted. To make one law clear, to be unequivocal, he must not bring confusion. So his provisions so that he does not bring confusion must be clear and concise. They can't doubt one or another solution, that it's a matter of arbitraryity, so tomorrow it would bring an opportunity for someone extensively, for some very broad interpretation that again, the witnesses we've witnessed many times, giving us the opportunity for a variety of abuses. There's no definition here of a person who does commission jobs. There's no definition here. There's no indication who's naming that face, and if there's one who's calling it. So it's not clear what the powers of that person are either. You can't see all this from this article's proposal. That's why we're actually looking for erasing these words, so that it doesn't make a mistake and that it can be interpreted the law in the only way that it's possible, therefore, restrictively narrowly. However, it seems that the purpose of both this and all the other laws that you are proposing here is, in fact, this new European order that you are pushing us into and trying to drag us into. So that's the purpose of both this and all the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53961	On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted the amendment to Article 97. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53962	Here's an amendment, where I'm sure the minister will respond properly, or accept New Serbia's amendment. He's basically practically unsustainable if the witches are eliminated. In this proposal, the law implements, i.e. it will practically eliminate the experts from any assessment. If so, Article 97(1) provides for 60% when bidding the initial price. My first question - who will determine that price if we abolish the experts in the executive procedure? So, Madam Minister, if we did not agree with the locksmith, I am convinced that this New Serbia amendment must be accepted because there is no reason for the initial price not to be 100% and that the competition is going in the opposite direction, because if you start with 60%, there will be someone damaged, and no one can report in competition. It's a completely contradictory proposal 60% if the warlocks are abolished. If there's no skill, it has to be the starting price of 100%, and then we're going in the opposite direction. This is how it'd be sustainable, if we kept the artists. Please, in the draft law on enforcement and security, no amendments to the NS have been accepted, probably because they are quite harsh with private perpetrators, but I must thank you for having accepted a lot of amendments on the public record. This amendment is meaningful and I expect you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53963	Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. No one's answering for a word. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. No one's answering for a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 97. No one's answering for a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 98. The word is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that in Article 98 paragraph 1 "and pay the price he has offered and so on" be replaced by the words "provided to pay 70% of the estimated value of things", not 30% how it can come into practice. In paragraph 2, "to act in accordance with Article 97 of this Law" is replaced by the words "to repeat the procedure". The proposed solution leads to a scandal and a competition and setting-up between the first and second bidders, which is common in court practice and in administrative procedure, for example, when renting agricultural land, when numerous scandals and corruption occurred, bidders with the highest and lowest lease prices are agreed. So, they say like this, we're going to bid and I'm offering 40 grand for a hectare of agricultural land, and this one says, I'm offering 15 grand. The first one to offer 40 grand for a hectare a year, he quit, and what's going on? This second involved in the competition, he gets a hectare of the country to use for 15 thousand dinars. This is a recorded case in southern Banat, and the country has been damaged throughout Serbia by ugly billions of dinars. Less would be a deficit. Mrs. Malovic, check how many thousands of hectares of state agricultural land have been leased and take a comparison of the municipality to the municipality, or this is your plot on the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53965	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Based on article 87, we interrupt work at 1400 hours and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, with discussion in particular on the draft law on enforcement and security. The amendment to the debate in particular is an amendment to Article 98 submitted by MP Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53967	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 98. The bill is part of the provisions that speak of selling things, the way, the time of sale, the obligations and the rights of the buyer, to realize the settlement of the executive trustee. In the provision of Article 98, there is one rule defined in paragraph 3 of this Article and which reads - the buyer takes the matter from the court enforcer or enforcer at the cost of the price. However, there is one exception provided for in Article 98(4) which states that a court enforcer may hand the matter over to the buyer and when he has not settled down or paid a price. Of course, with consent and trustees' consent. Item 5 on which I submitted the amendment's name to the SRS parliamentary group provides for a case where the buyer is given the matter to a trustee's settlement, and this one, within a specified and specified time limit by the court or executioner, has not paid a certain price. This view provides for forced payment in the same procedure by the court to the buyer in order to settle the request of the executive trustee. I have submitted an amendment to the position of Article 5, Article 98. The bill is deleted because we do not agree to do so in the same procedure, because the procedure is envisaged between the two parties, the executive trustee and the executive buyer. He's showing up now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53968	Two minutes. Thank you. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53969	As regards the provisions on powers not only of the judicial perpetrator, but also of the enforcer, the provisions of Articles 97 to 102 concerning Article 123 are unacceptable. The bill, since these provisions allow for the assessment of the value of movable things, and even more dangerous with much more difficult and inconclusive consequences and the assessment of immovableity, is done not only by the judicial perpetrator, but also by the perpetrator, as a natural person who determines the market value of the execution case, and also by a poor solution that the subject of execution can be sold at the first competition for only 60% of the initial estimated price, which the perpetrator himself does without skill and judicial participation. In the event that the first bidding fails, the subject of execution is sold by only 30% of the estimated value, which is determined by the executioner himself again. Here's an example, the house is worth 100,000 euros and now the perpetrator can sell it for 30,000 euros. I don't think it's a good solution here and that this amendment needs to be accepted here, because we're improving the text with this amendment, and on the other hand, we're not changing anything very meaningful. In any case, we try to protect the rights and trustees, and at the same time the debtor, without suffering any harm.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53970	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 105. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53971	I have suggested that Article 105, point 1 of the word "proposal for enforcement" should be deleted, as well as in the fourth word "or the request of the perpetrator". It is the same as the amendment to Article 104, because the proposal for enforcement concerns a private perpetrator, and the proposal for enforcement without words refers to a court enforcer, so by entering the word "implementation" practically seeks a way to covertly transfer judicial powers to a private person, which in practice comes down to debt seekers. We are against it, and that is why we propose to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53972	On Article 107 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 116. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53973	In Article 116, I proposed that this article be changed and that its text be improved. Therefore, the Court will approach the determination of the value of the immovableity following the decision to execute. The value of immovableity is determined on the basis of an assessment of the skills, and we propose that the participation of the experts, to bake the abuses, eight days before the start of the sale at the sale hearing, to reassess the value of the immovable property, if the party makes it likely that this value has changed significantly from the date of previous determination of the value to the day of sale. So, you see, it can happen that the value of some things or the value of some immovableity is increased from the first bidding and the first attempt to sell immovable property to the second and by 20 or 30 percent. Who would have suffered any damage here? The damage would be suffered by the debtor, and at the same time it could happen that the perpetrator of the assessment would do wrong, and in this way one great injustice and great harm would be done to the parties, which is risky to leave this to the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53974	The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MPs Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the NS has submitted an amendment to Article 116 paragraph 1 where we are asking that following the words "execution" the words "under the findings of the court's expert". In our explanation, we have said that the tendency of the legislator to rule out the role of an expert is unacceptable from our point of view, regardless of the goal it aims to achieve. It's to speed up the procedure. Exclusion of skill as a procedural action in this part of the process could result in the consequences of frequent abuses, which of course is not in the interest of both creditors and debtors. Any possibility that leaves space for some abuse in the law should be envisaged and very accurate, explicitly solved by a member who edits it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53976	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 117th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53977	Madam Vice President, I have proposed in the amendment, which refers to Article 123 to change and improve his text. It is again a suspicious bidding, a suspicious competition, and a threat to harm. I suggest that at the first hearing for sale of immovable property cannot be sold below the set price. If the immovableity could not be sold at the first hearing, the court will schedule a second hearing at which the immovableity can be sold below the set price, but not less than 30%. From the first to the second hearing must take at least 30 days. The parties and the notifiers may agree by a statement given on the court's record, and not by the executioner, before which the enforcement proceedings are pending, or by another court, or by the executioner, that the immovableity can be sold through competition and at a price lower than the established value, or below 70% of its value. Again, it is about determining the value of things, both mobile and immovable, without skill and without court, in an appropriate sense, how so far in our case-law works. That is why I propose to the Proposer that he accept this amendment. In any case, they shall protect and guarantee greater rights of parties to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53978	Member of the 124th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53979	I'll try to explain our amendment very briefly. Therefore, the failure to adopt this amendment will not cause any more serious damage under the law, but we felt it would really be a better solution if this proposal were accepted, as the amendment reads that Article 128(3), following the word "best offers", adds the words "and at the end of 10 minutes". So we felt that it was necessary to regulate the time period from the last offer to the conclusion of the public competition, which, we believe, would give special seriousness and legality to the activities carried out. So, what we would say is a psychological time interval that would mean something to everyone, and the law would set it exactly and bring one better atmosphere, if not legality in the competition process itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53980	The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53981	Here, in Article 129(1), I asked that the words "executor" be deleted after the word "judgment." In reasons for not accepting the amendments, the Government says that it is prescribed that the jurisdiction of the courts is governed by the law, that the law can determine that enforcement tasks are not exclusively carried out by courts, but that other persons can be trusted in accordance with the law. For these reasons, according to the Government, we are of the opinion that there are no constitutional restrictions on enforcing the law to be entrusted to other bodies, since the Constitution is not prescribed that it is solely a court of law. So, the government interprets that execution operations, since the Constitution does not prohibit them, can be entrusted to other persons, so it does. It also empowers private perpetrators, that they can now empower some third parties to carry out the execution on their behalf or on behalf of the State. Without a single word to say what are the persons who have the property of those third parties who can hire private perpetrators. Private perpetrators were told, so they listed which faces they could be, or gave some of the conditions they needed to meet in order to be private enforcers. However, for those persons who hire these private perpetrators, nothing is said. Who can those faces be? What kind of diplomas do those faces have? Are those state college diplomas? Are those private college diplomas? Is it possible that these are people without a degree, persons with acquired diplomas, etc? So someone is left out of the will to automatically interpret what faces they may be, and when something arbitrary is interpreted, we know that they will be, or the citizens of Serbia will soon be convinced that they will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53982	The 130th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53983	Madam Vice President, I'm glad that Mr. Novakovic is here, as a man who is quite well ruled by the right, legal matter, as a qualified and professional man can understand this amendment. I don't blame anyone who didn't have a rich court practice like Mr. Novakovic had. I have proposed that the settlement in the executive procedure be carried out in the following order: claims for security of the law of the Member States, claims for remuneration for personal services and the actual burdens to be paid by gas sales if they were incurred prior to the initiation of the executive procedure; thirdly, claims on the basis of legal maintenance, if they prove to be executive documents and if they are reported at the latest on public competition for sale; costs of the executive procedure, but the costs of the executive procedure should in fact be the first place; requests for executive creditors under whose proposal is specified enforcement. Publishing creditors are in line, as previously said Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, who are listed as a publishing trust and a real burden in an appropriate public book. Commissioners for personal services are in line to obtain the right of service. The eighth, costs and interest until the conclusion on the sale of immovable property to the customer, determined by the executive order, is settled in the same order as the main claims. The only thing I'm correcting here is that the costs of the executive procedure are first settled, so all this rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53984	Member of the 138th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53985	I propose that this Article 138 be deleted, because the amendment to Article 137 covers the provisions proposed in Article 138, so it is necessary to bring these provisions together with Article 137, and in this way you get one legal continent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53986	Member of the 139th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 141st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53987	With this amendment, I predicted that after the word "deposits", instead of a point, it would be stuck and they would add the words "to the proper application of the legal rules on the order of settlement with the priority of the hostage trustee who first entered his right in the public register, and if it does not, priority is given to the trustee who first submitted the proposal for execution". So it's obvious that this bill didn't take care of the priority of calming down. The solution proposed to this article did not foresee many cases, whether by accident or on purpose, I do not know. For example, when immovableities are not listed in the public register, then trustees who have a judicial verdict older than this enforcement solution appear. Here, reward question – who do you give priority to in execution? You can't see that from this bill. Will you act on the principle of who is stronger, but not right, beware, but who is stronger physically, his right is stronger? Citizens who owe banks and other creditors must now be clear -- those who make debts will not have much mercy on them. It should be clear to them at any moment after the declaration, after the adoption of this law. Behind and before the state institution, and then these debt seekers will be really easy to implement everything they imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53988	On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one wants a word. On Article 144, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop Lazic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53989	The Honorable Chairman, in agreement with our amendments so far, our position and concept, and here, a large number of responsibilities that have so far been part of the judicial authority are completely unnecessaryly passed on by this law to the perpetrators. This is one example where we really didn't get any explanation why this seems to be, that writing or documentation, which is necessary to make payments on real estate that isn't listed in a public book, can be collected and delivered to competent institutions. It's just amazing. But when you look at the whole of the law, it fits very well into what was desired by the concept of private perpetrators. This private contractor, in addition to being transferred to him the responsibility to collect claims, to carry out an executive procedure, will be able to investigate the whereabouts of the debtor's assets and here, we now see, he will be able to collect documentation that is in the interest of the executive trustee. We're going back to what this private contractor is? So he'll do it when he gets paid. He says he can do it. So, some public firm and some richer trustee will say, look, I'll pay you extra, please, spell out where that debtor has a house or some cottage or some garden, spell out all that paperwork and hand it over to the authorities there, so I can charge myself. Why would an executor do that? Let the executive trustee do it at the end of the line, hire a lawyer and pay him to do it, not the person to whom the public authority and part of the judicial authority are transferred. Look at the explanation. You can see exactly, it's a commitment to the executioner to free the court of that kind of business. The court can't be free of the judicial authority. Why don't you do it in court? Don't pass powers on to people who can very much abuse them in practice, what's going to happen. And they will abuse only because they will be well paid, for they will be persons who will pay well. Please accept this amendment, because the explanation you gave is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53990	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 145. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53991	I have proposed this amendment to Article 147, in order for item 7 to be changed, because Article 147 paragraph 7 should read as follows: "receiving soldiers and pitomats of military schools", and after point 7, I suggest adding point 8, which reads as follows: "A compensation for the work of a convicted in a criminal and correctional institution, except for claims based on legal maintenance, as well as for seeking compensation for the damage caused by the criminal offence of the convicted". The promoter did not give any explanation regarding the claims that were prohibited by law, namely the transposition of the law, which poses a confusion because it is unclear what claim is being made for whose transfer it is prohibited? The proposed standard makes it unclear to apply it and makes it impossible to apply it in practice. In the provisions concerning exemption from enforcement, the Proposer did not take into account the large number of persons present at the time of the prison, who receive compensation for their work in the institutions, which would be contrary to the principle of justice in order to implement and at the minimum amounts which those persons achieve for their work. Especially if they have an obligation to support a person under the law that would be mandatory. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted, because it makes this provision of law more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53992	Members of the 148th Amendment were submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the people is Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53993	To Article 148. I have tabled an amendment amending the position of the 1st member of the Proposal of the law on enforcement and security. It is mainly about the restriction of enforcement, where the position of the 1st law reads: "The execution of earnings and pensions, as well as the remuneration of earnings, can be carried out up to the amount of two-thirds of the earnings, pensions or wages." The amendment that I have submitted to the position of the 1st member provides for a slightly different solution. On the one hand, I believe that today we may have one of the biggest problems that young people in Serbia have no perspective. The basic problems of young people are employment and resolving housing issues. But regardless of this really big problem, young people and pensioners have a hard time living, not all but most of them. There are some pensioners, as well as here in the Assembly, who receive both salaries and pensions. Since there are a large number of pensioners who are barely making ends meet, the amendment has been submitted to this 1st position for that very reason. The amendment proposed that pensioners be able to carry out up to one half of the pension, unlike the text of the draft law in the position of the 1st member, where you provided for the execution of up to two thirds of the earnings, wages or pensions. We think this can be accepted because it improves the social situation and pensioner standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53994	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 150. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 150 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 157th Amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 158 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 159 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 159th Amendment, with a correction of 7 April 2011, were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53995	Since there have been several discussions today on how significant deadlines are right, I would like to try once again to explain what the meaning of this amendment is that, I believe, to the greatest extent possible, it is in the interest of executive creditors when it comes to the implementation of this law. We now have a large and contradictory situation with a proposal for this law. On the one hand, what should be a normal course of the executive procedure, to facilitate the trustee's exercise and exercise of his right, it is largely prevented by such a solution, by introducing five working days. Or, we didn't get any better reasons than the legal standard, that the three-day deadline is too short to realize the rights that trustees have. On the other hand, instead of facilitating the position of the executive debtor, to treat him justly, to act in accordance with the law, we introduce private perpetrators and give enormous authority to repress against them. So these are very problematic concepts that we have here. You will see how this will prove in practice – neither will the executive trustee, in whose interest this law should be, and a propaganda has already been carried out that in his interest and does this law, we see this example of five working days as a deadline, which will count both Sundays and holidays, and on the other hand will not be satisfied with the executive debtors who expect at least a minimum of justice and some normal relationship with them in the executive procedure when we introduce private perpetrators. Please consider this one more time. Because giving us this kind of explanation really doesn't make sense. You'll see in the next amendment, I'll show you how comically your explanation of why you reject our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53996	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 160th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 163. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 165. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53997	With this amendment, I asked for the words "or instead of payment" to be deleted in article 165. The government does not accept this amendment with an explanation, as it says, as Article 165. Proposal for a law of the precise type of transfer for collection or instead of collection, which in practice and most common cases. So, you're saying in your explanation to be in article 165. The bill of the precise kind of transfer for payment or instead of payment and let's accept it. Come on, some of them are a member of 165 and they're specific to that kind of transmission. But the question arises – who will in practice interpret it? Who's going to interpret it in concrete cases, what you call a precise, or a kind of transfer to pay or instead of a charge? Will this be done by private contractors? Will they do so, or might they do those they engage? Who did you give the authority to hire those third parties? Will this interpretation, specifically of this member, make these types of transmissions? Did you know that those engaged faces can be faces that only have eight grades of elementary school, but they're cut off and they're very hard? It can happen in practice and that. Will they interpret the law? Will you allow them to interpret this article 165? A bill of law? How do you think they'll interpret it? It'll be very interesting in practice how they interpret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53998	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 170. Does anyone want a word? MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u53999	Here in Article 170(2), the word "executor" is deleted, and the word "can" is replaced by "can." Therefore, Article 170 provides for a delay in the collection of the transferred claim. It provides that an executive trustee, i.e. an enforcer, who does not pay due attention to the payment of the transferred claim, may be liable for that damage and in paragraph 2 is provided that the court, as you say, may, on a proposal from another Executive Trustee, transfer it to another Executive Trustee. I'm asking here for this "executor" to be erased, that it's only a court of law. So here you are re-generating a legal anarchy. There is a responsibility for the compensation of the damages provided here at 1st position. However, in such a case, I ask that only the court may abolish the conclusion of the transfer of the claim to another executive trustee. To pass it on to some third party, to some other perpetrators, who will re-determin some other perpetrators, is indeed inappropriate. Do not give authority to any third party and those powers which are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court. Once and for all, the granting of such powers and all that you foresee with this law will be brought to your attention. Unfortunately, before that happens, Serbia's citizens will have their heads turned upside down, but after that, they will certainly love you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54000	On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop Lazic. On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 173. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 175 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ). Member of the 177th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 178 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54001	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that Article 183, paragraph 2, after the word "prescribed" add the word "to this", and after the word "legal" the words "which are governed by the budget system" are deleted. There's this reason I suggested. The proposed norm in Article 183(2). The bill is directly protected by a debt lobby, which consists of beneficiaries of budget funds and is prevented by executive creditors from charging their claims from beneficiaries of budget funds, which is, in practice, common, especially for entities who are beneficiaries of budget funds. After ten years or more, workers who have obtained the right to pay by judgments of the courts are unable to make their claims in those legal entities over which the Action Fund has taken over management. The same is the case if the Ministry of Defence owes a certain amount of money to a natural or legal person, the ministry will highlight the objection and appeal to Article 183(2)'s proposed standard in order to prevent execution, and trusts remain short sleeves and do not enjoy any legal protection, so it turns out that they have been suing cases 10, 15, and 20 years. We therefore propose that this amendment be adopted because it is meaningful and improves the text of the law, especially when budget owners and budget users owe certain amounts to workers and citizens on a variety of grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54002	The 184th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 187 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54003	I suggested that in Article 187 paragraph 2 after the word "execution" be placed on the ground and add the words "under the threat of giving the fine to the responsible person of that organisation under Article 51 of this Law". Why? The proposed solution is ineffective, given that the proposing did not provide for the monetary penalty of a responsible person in an emergency collection organisation, which in practice interferes with the execution, because in a large number of cases, no phone conversation can be established, no telephone contact with that organisation, whose numbers are constantly busy or no one is answering the phone, and citizens are turning the thresholds for days, these organisations, looking for notifications for their cases, for example. in Kragujevac they can't get for months and so the citizens stay in a situation that they can't collect their claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54004	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 191. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54005	The New Serbia parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 194 and asked for a new item 6 to be added after point 5 in point 2 of point 6 which reads "accurate number of actions in question", because according to the rules of business of the central register of values, the paper insists on the precise definition of the number of actions under any right or claim, as is most often the case in desert procedures. In the desert procedures, it is often insisted on the completion of the desert solution, in order to specify the number of actions that are the subject of the division, so we felt it would be worth adopting this amendment, although in an explanation for the refusal of the same, we received assurance from the Ministry that this Article 194 was very detailedly resolved. But I think it will just specify the number of actions – we assume there will be citizens who will have more than one action and more than five actions, as it is now shared among the heirs – that it will be an object that could slow down the process of seeking to specify the number of inherited actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54006	The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to article 195. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 195 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54007	We have submitted an amendment to change the word "arthium" in article 195. In the third word "executive trustee" they change the word "judgment". That's what we suggested by the amendment, and Section 5 is deleted. The first change is just alignment with spelling and language rules. That's what we insisted or distracted. The second change is due to the practice which has shown that it is most consistent that the court, rather than the executive trustee, defines the authorised broker or participant in the securities market of value. Paragraph 5. We believe that it is necessary to delete because the trade itself is specific, and therefore the actions as the subject of the executive procedure cannot in any way be subject to the same enforcement regime as other moving things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54008	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 198. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 210th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 213 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, a group of guests from Italy, who are following a part of today’s session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. They are present: Mr Ricardo Miljori, Italian Parliament MP and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, Mr Filipo Qinglosi, Italian Parliament representative, Mr Silverio Angelo, Vice-President of the IPALMO Institute, Professor Oreste Masari of the University of La Sapienca from Rome, Mrs Kristina Gajo, Secretary-General of the Institute of IPALMO, Mrs Kristiana Luciani, from the IPALMO Institute, Ms Anamarija Sideri, from the IPALMO Institute, Mr Pjero Zardi, from the Embassy of Italy, Mr Andrea Arnaldo, from the Embassy of Italy, Mr Francesco Santo, from the Embassy of Italy and Mrs Maja Ćosić, from the Embassy of Italy. Let's give it up for our distinguished guests. The 214th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 215 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 218. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 218 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 219 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 220 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 231 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 233 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54009	In Article 233, I proposed certain amendments and thus tried to ensure, first of all, the successful implementation of the executive procedure, because the proposed solution is not effective, does not provide sufficient efficiency in the enforcement and protection of the rights of the child's interests, because the proposer does not sanction a person who, second time, interferes with the execution, who, according to the proposal of the promoter, can be repeated in a sudden manner but without sanctions. So, it is necessary that this amendment, Mrs Malovic, be adopted. He's protecting the rights of the child. That's very important. I don't know if you'll agree with me, I might improvise here, but I'm not improvised because it's about protecting a child. That is why I say that in this executive procedure, this sanction that I have given in the proposal, and in the previous applicable law, this solution is actually foreseen. I tried to get this into law in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54010	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted the amendment to Article 241. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 251 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54011	Ms Malović, provisions of Article 252 to Article 256. The draft laws are in direct contradiction and conflict with provisions 142 and 143. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whose provisions prescribe independence, independence and unity of the judicial authority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Because these regulations explicitly norm that judicial authority belongs only to courts, so it cannot be passed on to entrepreneurs, i.e. natural persons, the legal status of enforcement officers under the draft law, which is transferred to the enforcement body by Articles 252 to 256. The bill, which undermines the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and its constitution. I think it is possible that this bill of law and law will be found on the assessment of the constitutionality of our Constitutional Court if adopted in such a text.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54012	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 252. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 253 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 254 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54013	The objective of this amendment is to prevent the taking over of judicial authority by other entities past the court, past the Constitution and beyond the law. I therefore propose that the provision of Article 254 be deleted in full, as this violates the Constitution and violates the judicial authority. There's no way that the court government can get hurt, and neither can it be torn apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54014	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 255. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 255. It's a bill of law. It's about a complaint from an executive trustee. The essence of this part of the Law proposal is that, in a special procedure for the reconciliation of certification based on municipal and similar services, a proposal for the execution on the basis of credible documents for the achievement of a monetary claim on the basis of the public and similar services performed is submitted to the performer whose area is the seat of the Executive Trustee. Article 255 reads: "against the conclusion of Article 253 paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Act, the Executive Trustee may declare an objection". Article 253(2) and (3) states that the perpetrator may reject a particular proposal, i.e. he may refuse to conclude a particular proposal. The main thing of the amendment is that we in the SRS believe that this should not be done by an perpetrator, but by a court with all the prerogatives of its judicial authority, that we should not transfer our powers, our authority to individuals, civil servants, officials, because this devalues the importance of the judicial functions of the court and throughout this bill, the MPs of the SRS point out to you, as I do at this time, that there is no need to devalue and reduce the importance of the court in relation to the powers and powers it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54016	Parliamentarians Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54017	I would say that this member, and the amendment that we have submitted, is crucial to the whole dispute that we have in relation to the government, when it comes to the concept of this law. It's really amazing what you're transferring to the jurisdiction of private contractors. We have changed attitude two here where you give the possibility of a private person, who will be a private person, to make a draft decision on the objection and then, in fact, only to your own press court accept such a draft decision by a private enforcer. Before that, one thing I want to point out to the Justice Department, to the people who have been doing the answers to our amendments, this is really unacceptable. The reason why amendments to the DSS parliamentary group are rejected is because Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 251 has been rejected. When we come to Article 251, it is said – the amendment of Peter Jojic, which we refer to, was rejected for reasons in which the amendments of Ms Gordana Pop Lazic, Article 104, were not accepted. When we come to Article 104, the amendment of MP Gordana Pop Lazic is rejected for the reason that Mr Zoran Krasic's amendment was cited. This is really amazing. Really, it's really funny, but something like this to come to the National Assembly that we have to deal with this kind of reasoning, rather than explain how the reasons for your rejection should be explained. We have to go through five amendments to maybe come up with a reason why this amendment was rejected. So it's impossible to transfer such great authority, Madam Minister, to the executor. If he's making a draft decision on the objection, be careful that's the second degree. I'd like to hear from you why you're working and transferring this power to a private contractor. There is, however, a serious legal knowledge required. Then, in fact, the court doesn't even discuss what's in it. He, it says here, puts a print of the press that proposes a draft decision to be adopted. This is a serious problem. It'll cause serious problems in practice. You're giving tremendous power to a private executioner. In addition to the possibility of hiring private persons without any qualifications, they will now make decisions on complaints, collect documentation for unwritten immovableities, check the property of executive debtors. Now he's going to make decisions by objecting to where the judges work. You can't play this way by judicial authority. This is absolutely unconstitutional. I agree with all the colleagues who spoke, he's an absolutely unconstitutional member. We understand that the court will dissipate certain responsibilities, but at this stage, it is absolutely unacceptable – executive debtors will face huge problems, huge irregularities and pressure when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54018	Three minutes. The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54019	I accept the criticism of writing an explanation. It's just, there's been a technical mistake, and I think you'll have an understanding that we've had a very short time to write fits. That's why I serve here that everything that is unclear and what needs to be complemented, to do so, which I will be very happy to do. As for private contractors, it was about the introduction of this institute into our legal system of dilemmas. We've considered both possibility, whether the court perpetrators might strengthen and whether to introduce this institute. I simply want you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to know the fact that there was a project with USAID back in 2007, signed by the minister of justice. This was the beginning of 2007, when a defacto decision was made to introduce private perpetrators into our judicial system. This Department of Justice continued, after all, something that had developed much earlier as an idea. Private perpetrators are the perpetrators to whom certain public powers are transferred. And that's true. So, the powers that he had until then are passed on to certain private persons. This does not mean, however, that they will be able to do what comes to mind. First, they are restricted by law and by the Constitution. On the other hand, there is a surveillance that will carry out both the executioner's chamber, the court, and the Justice Department. This solution to the draft decisions can also be considered, but as a counterargument to your position. I can point out how the court acts when it gets a proposal to execute, for example, for a communal service. He gets a proposal to execute on which he seals and it represents an executive correction. Yes, but this is the draft decision they're preparing for court. The court will make a final decision on that. I believe that, as I said in my previous discussions, this law will bring improvements. It remains for all of us to monitor law enforcement and to exercise serious control over the work of a private enforcer, both by the Ministry of Justice and by the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54020	Member of the 257th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 260 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54021	Madam Ministers, EU members who have signed various agreements, including in the field of judicial co-operation and enforcement of court decisions, can tell you that they do not oblige other countries to regulate them, although the previous minister has signed the agreement or contract bilaterally, he does not oblige EU members to deal with enforcement in a manner or similar way. They prevent such enforcement and the application of provisions of any agreement that are contrary to the constitution of EU member states. None will apply any provision if it is contrary to the constitution of the host country. I suggested that in Article 260, point 5 of the word "corresponding to the provisions on delivery" be replaced by "personal delivery". There is no other, there is no advertising table, because this advertising board will make many citizens of Serbia turn black, especially the debtors who are not in the house and who have not had the opportunity to receive timely notice from the court. Besides, what a colleague from DSS Palalic said, please, he's right. Don't give this much authority to the executor, he's a physical person and he's not a constitutional category. You're opening the door for him to commit numerous abuses. He's not being controlled by the judge, he's being told by the law that he's making decisions. He draws conclusions. The conclusion is a decision, you know? Still, then, making decisions concerning complaints or complaints. It's not right and it's not good. These perpetrators are not similar at this time, at least according to our national legislation and according to our case-law, and you should have only increased the courts, increased the number of executioners and the number of executive judges, but to carry out competent controls from the competent court. That way we wouldn't have the situation as it is. Otherwise, the advertising board, it will be a disaster for both parties. We only guarantee the parties, and Serbian citizens need to know this, that their only guarantee is court and personal delivery.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54022	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The 264th amendment, with a correction of 7 April 2011, was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 264 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Petar Jojic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal to Article 279 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 281 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 283 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54023	On Article 283 paragraph 1), I have submitted an amendment that provides for the words "executor" to be deleted. This Article 283 in the context of the abolition of the previous measure, which reads as follows: ''The Court, on a proposal from the Executive Debt, will suspend the procedure and abolish the actions carried out: (point 1) – if the Executive Debt is passed to the Court, or to the Executive Officer (I have proposed that these words be deleted by the 'executor') the amount of the claim to be secured, with interest and expenses. All this time in detail, the MPs of the SRS have been telling you that it is unnecessary to give such power to the executioner. You shouldn't do that and we think you're making a mistake. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Malovic, you are one of the participants of the so-called SRS, reforming the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia. We don't think this reform is good. In doing so, I personally don't blame you for this reform, although you are a minister, but you have responsibility, given that you are in that position as minister of justice. Now both through normative acts and through laws and in politics during your performances, not personally, but those representing power, you are constantly using terms, principles, institutes or criteria for the dignity of the participants in the reform of the justice system, judges, prosecutors. Now you're giving great importance to the executioner. But in doing so, I think you're substituting the thesis, using the word "worthy", and you're applying the term "like", politically similar, because we know this in the bar, and we know in general in Serbia that people get the right seats in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54024	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 285th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic to Article 288. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 294 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 297 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic put together the amendment. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54025	This is a very important chapter of the draft law relating to the register of court bans. As in a series of previous amendments, we wanted to contribute to the solutions that we proposed to speed up and in this case, regardless of the interest of the executive trustee, we want to speed up the process. To, again, specify the legal standard that is often used in the standard - debt-free without delay, means that the executive trustee, who has an interest in enrolling in the security ban register, is set deadlines until he has to do so. Wherever we can get those legal standards, if we really want to speed up the executive procedure, we can remove them. So within three days, you have to do it. You have an interest, of course you have an interest. The law puts the number of institutes in a more favourable position than the executive debtor. It's okay, there's nothing to delay. What does it mean without delay? Three days, he finishes the job, let that ban be entered, it's a legal interest, and that protects legal certainty. The explanation that we have received, that this once again creates opportunities not to carry out this obligation for some objective reasons within three days, really does not stand, as we do not agree with a five-day deadline, where it is said again that it will not arrive within three days. Then why are we talking about speeding up the whole executive procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54026	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54027	We think it's more appropriate that all procedures concerning and these substances related to the court order register are not removed from the justice domain, so now to put in place that ministry of commerce to deal with legal remedies. What does that have to do with the court order register running the APR? I think it's still a very sensitive matter of security. That kind of surveillance should be run by the Justice Department. At the end of the line, according to all the decisions taken regarding enrolment, the ministry should work. Watch out, Department of Industry, i.e. The regional development, which has no more competences, deals with employment to the NIP, to everything alive, now they will be dealing with this kind of procedure. How deep are they going to get into the problem of judicial matter in the first place? It's really not clear why you rejected this amendment. However, we believe that the Ministry of Justice is going to pay attention to any sector in the ministry when problems or legal remedy arise. Please don't bring the Ministry of Economy into this story now, believe me, there will be more problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54028	People's MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted an amendment that, part of the seventh, the perpetrators, was deleted to the eighth in general. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 312 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54029	In Article 312(1), I proposed that it be changed. The perpetrator should only implement the decisions of the court, not as set out in Article 312(1), - the enforcer shall exercise the public powers entrusted to him by this law. What does this look like? How come these powers are ridden, like this in the hands of an executor, debt seekers, a physical person. Do you see this? Do you know that this is contrary to Articles 142 and 143? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Do you know that this public authority that you are transferring to that debtor and executioner is a constitutional category and falls exclusively within the jurisdiction of the court? Who's playing with the court's jurisdiction? Who's playing with the Constitution? What are these innovations that are going to harm Serbia's legal order? Please don't. Get rid of this. The executor, you can only give him the authority to execute the court's decisions and nothing else. Without a judge, everything is insecure. The incursion of judicial authority, as provided for by Articles 142 and 143, is a disaster. We are destroying our constitutional and legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54030	National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment to add the word "justice" to Article 312 after the word "Minister" in Article 3, as well as to add the word "justice" to all other members of the bill, where the word "Minister" appears in a given decline. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 313 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 313 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 314 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 314. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 314. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54031	Madam Vice-President, I have suggested that in Article 314(4), following the word "on its property" the point is replaced by a comma and the words "and about the property of members of his family in the first succession order". Now you know what's at stake here. It is an objective that the promoter wants to achieve and cannot fully achieve this norm because the basic assumption that the perpetrator may benefit, which he has achieved by acting unlawfully, perhaps in the course of his work as the performer in the performance of his duty, to transfer to members of his family the first inheritance order and thus to defuse the execution and compensation of damages that he can easily cause. This way, he must make a statement to the circumstances of his property and assets owned by his successors of the first succession order, which gives one guarantee to the state and the legal system, on the other hand giving assurance to both the debtor and the trustee that they can exercise their rights in one legal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54032	The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to Article 316. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 319. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54033	I have submitted an amendment to Article 319(1). The word "lowest" is replaced by "highest." Madam Minister, you, as the legislator, did not have in mind the consequences that would appear in practice if only the minimum amount of insurance was prescribed. What will you do if the executioner gets the 100 million dinars and you prescribe its operations at about 20,000 euros, and let's say half a million euros can be the subject of execution. You only prescribe the lowest, and why don't you prescribe the highest, because what are we going to do with those items where the executive order is going to be ten times, and this is not how damage is guaranteed. You can get into a situation, I have knowledge, and even you, even in courts, in steel registers, there was a theft of valuables and currency. What do you do now with an executor who can get, collect debt and demand, put it in his pocket and run away with half a million euros, and he's nowhere to go. It's all risky. I'm saying again, I believe the court, I trust the state, but I can't trust these kind of exorcists and private entrepreneurs to believe, because in practice it has proved to be people who are prone to crime, to corruption. The notebooks and perpetrators you have in Europe, in the EU, say they are the biggest criminals in the book, that they have the biggest problem with the crime of the notebooks and that many are in prisons, and that is the case with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54034	Member of the 319th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 319 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 320 and 320. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to Article 321. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 321. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54035	Madam Vice-President, I have proposed, in Article 321, item 1(3), that the words "and members of his family in the first order of business" be added after the words "executor". As an explanation, I state that the objective that the proposer wants to achieve the proposed norm cannot be fully achieved because the basic assumption is that the executioner can benefit from the illegal treatment, so he has charged the claim and retains it in his possession, in the exercise of his duty to transfer to the members of his family. Therefore, the property is transferred to members of its family, to the heirs of the first succession order, to protect themselves from the control prescribed by the legislator. This amendment is proposed in a reliable way to achieve the objective of this norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54036	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 323. Nobody wants a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to Article 324. Nobody wants a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 324. Nobody wants a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 325. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54037	In Article 325, point 1(1), I proposed that the words 'proposal to execute and determine how to execute, if the Executive Trustee did not determine how to execute' be replaced by 'judgment resolution'. In Article 325, it may also receive money obtained by seizing and selling, which may be of high value, and in particular that in such a case, the executive debtor does not have the guarantee that damage can be done. The provisions of Article 326 explicitly suggest that the executioner shall be held accountable to all of his assets for the damage incurred during the enforcement procedure, but not suggested to the extent to which that property should be worth, nor shall it be proposed to represent the maximum amount of the insurance of the executioner, as proposed in Article 319. It's a bill of law. It proposes that the minister prescribes the minimum amount of insurance for the perpetrators, but not the highest, so the question is who will pay for the damage if the perpetrator causes damage above the security amount, given that according to the bill, the state is not responsible for the damage because the perpetrator is an entrepreneur, so he is personally responsible, which is a really bad solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54038	The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to Article 325. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 325 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 326 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54039	I suggested that Article 326 be changed and read as follows: "For the damage caused by its work by the perpetrator is the Republic of Serbia, which can be regressed from the perpetrators". Why doesn't the state take responsibility for the damage caused if someone suffers from the perpetrator's guilt and thus the state is regressed from the perpetrator himself. This way, gentlemen of the Ministry, you will have a big problem, because in front of the International Court of Strasbourg, there will be a thousand lawsuits and complaints about such a solution, because if only the minimum that must exist is prescribed, and the perpetrator must be secured at a certain height and value of the property and if that property is small and insignificant, that perpetrator will do damage to his work to the citizens, and above all, the trustee, but the state is not responding. I suggest that the state assume responsibility and obligation for potential damage that is not excluded and that the State be regressed from such a person. It would be justice, the safety of our parties in the executive procedure, if we want this executive procedure to be effective and comprehensive and the citizens to exercise their rights in good time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54040	Member of the 327th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 328. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 328 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 328.Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 329. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54041	I suggested that Articles 329, paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 be deleted, as well as the amendment to Article 326. The bill, because Serbian citizens are equal in front of the law and the Constitution under the Constitution. However, according to the proposed solution, this equality of rights is violated, so the executioner is placed in a privileged position, and in practice, the contractor who is obliged to settle this debt to the burden of the executive trustee, whose money has been paid into his bank account, and the executive trustee has no idea about it, because, under the provisions of the Bill and the applicable law on the execution of a solution in certain financial means, that is, to be delivered to the debtor only after the severance has been carried out. So it turns out that the executive trustee is a debtor of the executioner as a debtor to a third party, with the provision of Article 329(4) of the declarative nature, because he has a lengthy court procedure, with a uncertain outcome that the executive trustee recovers the money without whom he has remained. This will in practice be a common phenomenon and manipulation of third party perpetrators. What happens if I, as an enforcer, answer to someone and I have an obligation to pay them any damage or any other bond giving, collect the claim by the court's decision and the executive verdict and repay myself to my trustee, but at the same time I do not immediately inform the trustee of the correcting executive and credible that the money is immediately handed over to him and thus put an end to the proceedings in the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54042	Word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54043	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with the discussion of this amendment for the simple reason that this member of the law is just predicting the obligations that the perpetrator must respect for the trustee. For clarifications to the citizens of Serbia, and to you, I will read what this member of the bill regulates. Paragraph 1 states that "the executioner owns on his behalf at least one bank account exclusively paid for in the enforcement process or security procedure". Item 3, which is also proposed for erasing, says, "The perpetrator is obliged to transfer the funds paid under Article 1, without delay, to the account of the executive trustee." Paragraph 4 states: "The funds in the account referred to in Article 1 cannot be the object of the confiscation to settle the debts of the executioner". If it comes to the fact that the perpetrator does not transfer to the trustee, it is primarily a disciplinary violation prescribed by this law, but may also be the subject of a criminal offence prescribed by criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54044	Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54045	Madam Minister, this is a declaration of what you say and it may well be imagined, but in practice it's extremely risky, because you don't have such an enforcer today, although you are this bill or which may be passed, and I believe you have most and you will, you have delayed it long, so it's "vacated legion" very long, from the day the law is passed until the day of its application. What you're commenting on now, when it comes to this member, I've read it ten times, and I'm telling you what's going on in practice. Did you arrest the judges and prosecutors? Yes, it is. Were they wrong? They did. Watch out, more court and prosecution, these are the institutions I trust, but everything is risky when you transfer jurisdiction to the executor and trust. You may only have good intentions for the efficiency of the enforcement procedure, because Serbia is the last one at the rate of enforcement of judicial decisions and other decisions by the competent authorities in Europe. That's no reason now that we are making laws for individual cases and thus creating chaos in the executive procedure, and I believe that you appreciate it and that you are dealing with it and I respect your efforts as a lady. I have to tell you, this is after the Constitution and the CAP the most important system law. You know very well that citizens, and today I haven't mentioned the case to you in 40 years, has been published in the newspaper, that a Belgrademan has been running a lawsuit for 40 years. If you care about us having to predict something at all costs, and it is not applicable in practice, and you have to stand by the law, because you are the proposer, and you will have to eventually, if the citizens are unhappy or those who are applying this, you will have an obligation to make bills, because you are behind it. (President: Two minutes. I believe that you have good intentions, but you must think about everything, only what is effective and what is good for the law to work better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54046	Time has been used. Thank you. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54047	I thank you for your suggestions, because I know that you want to contribute to this bill, when voted, to be applicable. You know, this amendment of yours reminds me of an anecdote that is being convinced of our legal tradition of the moment of criminal law in Serbia. Namely, when Miloša Obrenovica, in time, suggested that he should pass a criminal law, he said that this should not be done, because then our people will see what is prescribed by criminal law, and then they will begin to do those acts. Thus, the laws are adopted to regulate certain procedures, the way the state authorities work or certain institutions, etc. This law is exactly what it does. Is there going to be a violation of it? So if there is a violation from anyone, then there is a criminal law, then there is the police, then the prosecution, then the judgment, etc., which you know well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54048	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54049	Madam Minister, it is true that you say there are competent authorities, but citizens who have been awaiting the verdict for 20 years have no time nor can they rely on a public prosecutor or court to lead a new lawsuit or to wait for whether a criminal case will be brought against the perpetrator. The citizens of this Serbia want to have a court, to believe in it, to believe in the judicial authorities and at the same time believe in the state, as a state body, and in such a way that you, as a proposing, and this home as a legislative and highest body, should provide citizens with legal certainty. If we predict this, then postpone it, and we have another remedy, these citizens can launch litigation, and maybe a criminal case will be brought against the perpetrators. What do you have out of it if you are robbed by the perpetrators and transferred the property that he has charged from you as a debtor to his successors? Here and in that direction, I have a good intention of having a tighter foundation in the law to make it stronger and better. It is good that you have taken good provisions from the 2000 Executive Act and that has improved the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54050	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 333. No one wants a word. On Article 333 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. No one wants a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 334. No one wants a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 335. No one wants a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to Article 335. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 336. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54051	And in Amendment 336, I suggested that for the damage caused by its work, the perpetrator corresponds to the RS, which can be regressed from the perpetrator. Clean bill of long love. Is that right? Why? You see, I'm not excluding that the perpetrator will do harm to someone during the execution procedure. If the perpetrator to whom the state gives public authority and causes that damage, whoever gives him public authority, which is the state, let the State bear the damage caused by the perpetrator, and let the State, as I have already said, be regressed from the perpetrators, and she shall lead the case for 15 years. So she can see how the state will feel when she's in a situation where years and years of litigation and litigation are delayed, so let her suffer some damage once. The state is always trying not to hurt her. Here's the model. We couldn't charge public utility that citizens are in debt to public utility companies, but now we're going to give it to debt seekers to give, make a little effort to the debtors, let them see what to do, and what Mr. Palalic said, I fully agree with it, he's a lawyer, and above all, a man and a well-known of good rights, there is Mr. Novakovic, too, could be said the legend of the legal profession, which can also tell you whether it can be excluded from the perpetrator here. Secondly, is it your turn, Mrs. Malovic, to have the state stand behind this and let the state do damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54052	Two minutes. Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54053	This is a very important member. He regulates the question of the assistant executioner. I've already said in the course of the discussion that an opportunity has been missed for this institute to be arranged more precisely. In fact, here I expect the greatest abuses when it comes to the appearance of private perpetrators. If you have already defined which conditions should be met by the executioner and his deputy, why is that not done when it comes to assistants? (Hope Kolundji, from place: Amendment accepted. No such amendment has been accepted. This is a very serious matter, and I believe the Minister knows what I'm talking about. A private contractor, who will be well paid by executive creditors who have money, and that will be mostly public enterprises because the largest number of his actions will be when it comes to credible documents, which are bills for utility and for all else, will be hired by third parties who do not have any professional equipment, can be without school. Here it is said, in an explanation of the rejection of the amendments – they will be able to carry out some less complex or individual assistive tasks. What's that? They'll knock on the door, we're here from the private contractor's office, just to warn you to pay. When a citizen sees what he looks like, and he sure as hell won't look nice because he's not here to be nice, but to make a debt, or have a school, then there'll be trouble pressing on the debtor. And that's what we were talking about. It's okay to shorten procedures to speed things up and do this in the interest of an executive trustee. And that's what needs to be done. But let's protect the interest and the executive debtor, not to be subjected to the pressures of people whose expertise, qualifications, biography, all that would be important to know who they are, whether they're convicted, whether they're bandits, whether they're thugs, we don't have them here. You should've worked this out just like you worked out for the perpetrators and the deputies. This is a very sensitive thing. That's why I wanted to discuss this amendment because if this is missed, I'm not sure the Ministry of Justice or the Chamber will have full insight. In the Chamber, the interests of esnaf will bond with each other and will not want to control each other. But this is where the Justice Department would have to have oversight and it would be good if this were done more precisely, or at least by some sublegal act, at the very end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54054	Name of Chapter 5 and Article 338 to 345. National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment titled Glava 5th and Article. 338 to 345 are deleted. No one wants a word. Title above Article 345. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment that changes the title above article 346. Excuse me, that's the title above article 346. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54055	I suggested, ladies and gentlemen, that the word "justice" be added in article 346. Mrs. Malovic, our government has 17 ministries, it is not clear, and I think it belongs to the minister of justice's authority, so I think in this amendment as a whole you are mentioned as a minister, but without the words "justice". This should be accepted because that's how the norm is complete. It is now a complete norm and points out precisely, not to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or agriculture, or health care, but to the Ministry of Justice. I don't think there's any dispute here, and I think it's necessary to point out in the law that it refers not to any ministry, but rather to the Department of Justice. So you're the minister whose authority and authority belongs to this area and the justice minister should stretch. So I ask you to accept our amendment, because it aims to strengthen the position of the minister of justice. Not to confuse which ministry it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54056	The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 347. No one wants a word. On Article 349, the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 350th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 350. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic's MP submitted to Article 351 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 351. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 351 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 351 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 352 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 353. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 355. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 355. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic's MP submitted to Article 357 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 357. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together to Article 358. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54057	This is the last amendment submitted by our parliamentary group. We have submitted it for the reason that we really want, regardless of the legislator's intensities, the legislator's proposals, the executive procedure, which we support, and should not lead to legal uncertainty when it comes to the start of proceedings. There's really going to be a lot of trouble. When the reason for the rejection of the amendments is read, it is true in one part that new institutes are being introduced, but there are procedures under the already applicable law. Imagine what a new procedure will now look like to be interrupted by the law and continued completely under this law? Let procedures, regardless of the problems that exist, end under the applicable law. Because there's a absence of this kind of practice. It is very rare that retroactivity occurs, except in criminal law, when it comes to less threatened punishment. But in executive proceedings, you start the proceedings, now introduce a new law – it is absolutely unacceptable. So our amendment refers to the procedures that have been initiated under the law that was in force at the time of the proceedings, to end under that law, and the new procedures when this law enters into force should be governed by the new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54058	On Article 358, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 359. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 359. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 360th Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54059	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, and in article 360, I suggested that the first word "comora" be replaced by the words "Minister of Justice". Therefore, the SRS considers that, in the given conditions and circumstances, it is quite unacceptable to introduce a bulky structure of the executing chamber, as proposed in Chapter 5. The bill, which largely generates additional and unnecessary costs to be paid by the executive debtor. The SRS considers that the enforcement process should be simplified and made more economical, efficient, more efficient and more per party-friendly, not the multiplication of bureaucracy and administration, which will cost the debtor a lot of money that came into the situation to finance an unnecessarily massive administration on his hump, as the promoter constructed it – in the chamber. Are there few hundreds of different chambers in this Serbia? This structure did not know our legislation so far, nor did court practice. These are the novelties and fashions of new promoters. So, on someone else's back, there's a hundred beatings. I also ask the question - why is this bureaucracy paid on the burden of debtors, if the proposer wants to do a more efficient and economical enforcement and security procedure? Let these costs be paid out of the judiciary budget, not extra from the debtor. The perpetrators will also be reported by those who have not passed the election for judges and prosecutors, and have also become members of some political parties, which has been notified to the public. Madam Minister, this is the last amendment that the Serbian Radical Party has invested, you do not have to accept them, because I have the impression that most amendments when it proposes another political party from the ruling coalition, you are ready to analyse them and adopt them. But I don't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54060	Two minutes. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to Article 360. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 363. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. The Minister of Justice has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54061	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we accept this amendment and since we are already at the end of the debate on this law, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54062	Given that the Committee on Justice has proposed that the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and that the applicant's representative accepts it, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law to Article 363. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of Criminal Sanktions (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill: Boris Aleksic, Milorad Buha, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinović, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop Lazić, Milovan Radovanović, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić and Nenad Konstantinović, as well as amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54063	When it comes to amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, I must say that over the past 13 years, legislation has been amended several times in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions, but, Madam Minister, in prisons, something that is absolutely unacceptable is happening. First of all, you know that in prisons you have people who support a prison sentence from the lowest to the highest. There's no classification in prison detention offices. The prisons are full. In prisons, corruption and crime are booming, drug trafficking, gangs convicted of crimes and other crimes hard to deal with and up to 40 years, where they are being punished, harassed and threatened by the safety and security of those citizens, those people who support prison sentences, say, for traffic. There's chaos in prisons. The prisons are full. From 2000 to today, the number of convicts has increased, but there is no order in prisons. I remember after 2000, after "Sablje," I was on a commission to go to prisons. However, the question arises – why now the competent ministry does not take appropriate measures to establish order and peace and security for all convicts living there. To prevent drug trafficking, to prevent corruption and crime, to ensure the safety of those people who have come into a situation to support a prison sentence, say, for a felony or for a prison sentence for up to a few months, but up to 40 years? Sorting not done. You promised, and you said the prisons would be built. Like a prison in Pancheva. From Maria Teresa to today nothing has been done...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54064	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54065	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs here have been made very serious accusations. With one piece of your exposure, I'll agree, with the fact that the prisons are overcrowded. It is that we have a large number of convicted and detained persons. More specifically, from the moment the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in July 2008 to today, we have 2,500 more people detained and imprisoned in Serbian prisons, which is the result and a sharper criminal policy. As far as your discussion is concerned, there's chaos in prisons, there's no order, there's no sorting, I won't agree, because it's simply not true. It's all going on, it's going on. There's order, rules of conduct established. There are disciplinary procedures to be conducted when there are violations of certain rules of conduct. Then certain criminal proceedings were conducted, and I will speak freely and openly. Even in one prison, several individuals who were in the security service were detained when torture occurred to a convict. These are all the facts that deny your allegations, and since the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly has the authority to supervise Serbian prisons, according to the law, we are fully open to this matter, so I urge you to see to it that the institutions themselves are doing what they are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54066	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54067	Madam Minister, have you read the newspaper what they're publishing? Even convicts who plead, and even the former prison manager, what is public, that this condition that you are now claiming is all right, I do not dispute that you are taking some measures and should take them, but there are many objections. Tell me, please, when you say I'm wrong, there's no crime and there's no drug trafficking, why are you introducing this law of an investigative dog to discover drugs in prison, if there's no drug trafficking why are we doing this? Second, are the prisons too crowded? That's right. Third, is it true that prisoners are classified according to categories? That's what I'd like to make sure we go to prisons and see. I wish you were right, I'd like you to be right, but the public has been informed by people from these institutions that the situation in prisons is not satisfactory and that's why I have objections. Don't argue with something you didn't deny. Why don't you file criminal charges against those who wrote in "Politics" or in other journals, if they've been deceived by the public? But you didn't deny it. If you had denied it, it's okay. But you didn't deny it, and that's why a lot of things out there aren't you able, Madam Minister, to do anything. You can't go to a hundred pages, I know that. You have great responsibility, you have great ambitions and I see you're trying and that's good, but please, more control of those below you, who are required by the Rules of Procedure to exercise control, to submit regularly, but true reports. There are no reports, you haven't taken measures. Inform the public and go to the facility and see. Secondly, are there any rooms in CZ that are issued to private persons or not, and the prisons are overcrowded? There's something wrong. (President: Two minutes. One more thing, if you'll excuse me. Did you say there's a county prison in Panchev's wall, if there's funds? Here, please, do something. There he sits in one room for 16 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54068	People's MP, you've used your time for replication. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54069	Here in Article 8, he says: "The decision to take special rights shall be taken by the warden of the prison. An appeal may be made against the decision referred to in Article 4. The appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. "I asked for this "appeal not to delay the execution of the solution" to be deleted. The government does not accept this amendment for reasons why it says: "Some special rights mean leaving the office for several days. "It's simply that the government's explanation is not in line with the real situation. This argument is not in line with life. We ask that if certain rights of the convicted person are taken away and the person lodges a complaint on that, that the provision that the appeal does not delay the execution of this decision is, therefore, the last, to delete it. In particular, the convicted should go, say, on leave. He was given the leave by the warden's decision and now by some other decision, for only his known reasons, his manager suddenly and suddenly took away that right, denied him his already acquired right. He complains of such a decision and the proposed solution does not apply to the original decision, but to the latter. With the proposed solution, we are trying to protect a convicted person's rights already acquired. Unfortunately, I think, however, with many of you in power and those on the loose have in some way the status of convicted persons. If nothing else, at least they're doomed to live under a regime that takes care of its citizens at all or very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54070	The 10th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to article 14. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54071	I asked that instead of listing it, as it is in the proposal, where the police and BIA say, therefore, the Security and Information Agency, it is said that electronic surveillance of the defendants can only be done by the authorities. I suggested this because you were counting, when you told the police, the Security-Intelligence Agency, said – and others. Who else are they? Who else can conduct electronic surveillance on the defendant's face? It's simple why you put that "and the other" in the bill. There's no other, no third, no other, etc. If you say competent, you rule out all the other ones, thirds, others, etc. At the same time, you rule out the possibility of abuse, and you also protect the rights of all, even those who are accused, right? Clearly, we all need good and better laws. That's why it is such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54072	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 23 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is wanted by a proposing representative, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54073	I'll just take a minute. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54074	I find that, given that the proposer's representative has accepted the amendment, and there is agreement between both the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 29. I have submitted an amendment to the bill, and I can say, Madam Minister, that I am a member of the 29th legal and technical order and there are certain justifications in one of its works. You have made it nice for a five-member commission to be educated on a proposal from the competent committee, that the commission is no longer independent in its work and that it submits to the National Assembly, at least once a year, which has been elected by the competent minister in the field of justice. It's all right. However, it was mentioned here, and Petar Jojic, an SRS MP, said few prisons were overcrowded, and you agree there. The females are not conditional on the execution of a prison sentence by a certain number of prisoners. There are not enough conditions to stay prisoners in our prisons, but there is a certain level of bribery and corruption among certain people in the administration system. You know that and I believe you're doing your best as justice minister to eliminate both bribery and corruption. There is no classification according to the severity and type of sanctions, i.e. the sentence of prison, no categorization among prisoners, which means closing and the conditions in which you should bring in the measure, weight and time of imprisonment that prisoners maintain in our institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54076	Pursuant to Article 29 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54077	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment and express my satisfaction that the National Assembly itself, which is to form a commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, has formulated this provision. I also expect that the commission will be formed very quickly and that the National Assembly will be able to assume its full role if we talk about the control of criminal sanctions. I want to remind everyone, both the public and the MPs, that we have so far held on two or three occasions a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration in the institutions, once in Pogorevec, the second time in Nis. I think it's the right way to control and exchange views and opinions on improving criminal sanctions. In the name of the Justice Department, I call on us to do so in the future. As I said, I express my expectation that this commission will be formed very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-14-0.u54078	I also find that this amendment, which was tabled by the Committee, which the Legislative Committee considers to have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, given that, on behalf of Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, it accepted the amendment on the commission for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. This concludes the search of all amendments. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This is what we do for today. The paper continues on Tuesday, April 19th, at 10:00 p.m., by searching the details of the agenda points on which a joint principle search was carried out. Thank you, everyone. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have conditions for the work of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so we continue to work. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position, that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, and on the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, the President or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group may also, at a session of the National Assembly, address, within one session, for up to five minutes Tuesday and Thursday, immediately after the session is opened and the number of MPs attending the session is determined, and before moving to a further debate. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wants a word. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
