ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I am opening the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards from the ambassador's unit of the electronic voting system. I find that 113 MPs are present in the hall and that there are a Rules of Procedure set out the conditions for the session of the National Assembly. I also inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and MP Miletic Mihajlovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the members of the Government to whom the interpretation applies, Srdjana Sredkovic, Minister of Faith and Diaspora, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Predrag Tojic and Miodrag Jaksic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, Vukman Krinokuća and Djorđe Prstojevic, Assistant Minister of Faith and Diaspora and Aleksandra Kotic, Secretary of the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the Government’s response to the interpretation, and within the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, on the basis of Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in agreement with the decision of the National Assembly, were established as follows: Consideration of the government's response to the interpretation on the legality of work, business and responsibility of Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjan Srekovic, who was submitted by a group of 57 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, we move to work on the agenda. You have received interpretation on the legality of work, business and responsibility of Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjan Srekovic, who was submitted by a group of 57 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. You received a response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to a noon interpretation. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as to be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of MPs of members of the Parliament's group, namely the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS parliamentary group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, and on the basis of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, as well as the parliamentary groups that decide to be represented during today's debate by MPs who are not representatives of parliamentary groups, inform the National Assembly so that we can inform the MPs. Is there anyone who wants to hand over the list of speakers, and he didn't do it until this moment, before the search opened? No, I don't. According to Article 225(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. In accordance with Article 225(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the word to Srdjan Sredkovic, Minister of Faith and Diaspora. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62325	Article 27. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, it's a shame what you're doing. Such a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure exceeds every measure. On June 26th and 27th, the Serbian Radical Party submitted two interpretations, one about trying to join us in the NATO Pact, and the other about the government's KIM policy. It has been 90 days since we submitted this proposal, and you are required to schedule a session by the Rules of Procedure, no later than 45 days. The government has 30 days of her response and another 15 days, that's 45 days. You are trying to bury all the problems in Serbia and deceive Serbian citizens. And now, although this interpretation came late, after 67 days, you are trying to cloud the problem facing Serbian citizens, which is the situation at KIM. Computer – Srdjan Srekovic, SPO, it is the least of your damage to discuss. That's what you're trying to avoid being held responsible for Kim. You no longer represent anyone. That's what citizens in the north of KIM tell you best. They told you nicely not to recognise your decisions, or your negotiating team, do not recognise the president of the Republic of Serbia, do not recognise the government. The more you want, the more you cheat on the citizens of Serbia. What you are doing is one of the most shameful acts in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62326	Article 27's injuries are not explained by the reasons you gave in your presentation, for the simple reason that the interpretation, submitted by the SRS Group within the deadline of the Rules of Procedure, was also on the Administrative Board and within 30 days and on the Government. The National Assembly has an obligation to schedule a session within 15 days. That deadline would expire on October 29th. People's MP, who is surprised, please consult the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the ways and deadlines for interpretation. The MP who gives an explanation that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I assume he gives it in accordance with the procedure and wants me to hear an explanation or want to break the Rules of Procedure. You can do both, one is punishable, the other is not. This session is scheduled within the deadline. The deadline would expire on October 29th. National MP Dragan Todorovic is right when he talks about the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but this has nothing to do with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rather than having to do with the control and control of the government's work. If the Government had sent the answers to the interpretations which the applicant was an SRS, two more, then those sessions would have been scheduled in the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to carefully separate what is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what is a political criticism of the government's work, in which we can always agree, because the government can always do better. Do you want to make my explanation a statement to the Assembly? An explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The MP wants to. Do you think another member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? Yes, we agree, there is no injured member, and this injury will be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. Please wait patiently, everyone will get a word that requires a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as everyone is obliged to listen to others who speak. According to Article 225 of the 1st and 2nd paragraphs, this session runs in the same procedure as the session at which we are considering the draft law. My proposal was for the People's MP, Milorad Buha, to be the representative of the interpreter, and after that, Minister Srdjan Srekovic would have the word. Since we do not have a clear agreement on this, I remain in accordance with Article 27, however, on the right to give my word to the People's MP, Milorad Buhi, if he wishes to use it as an interpreter. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62327	I'm reporting under Article 107. I believe that you have just injured the dignity of the National Assembly, because you know, just as well as I do, that Mr Todorovic has advertised the right member of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, because you are obliged as chairman of the Assembly to give and to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that the Serbian government, which you tried to defend and say -- we have nothing to do with it, they do as they do, as you tried to tell us at the College session that it is something that offends the basic sense and dignity of this Parliament and every MP. You know, just like Mr. Odalovic and his deputy, with whom I spoke, informally, about why this interpretation came on the agenda, not the two mentioned by Mr. Todorovic, the SRS regarding your entry into the NATO Pact, against whom 92% of Serbian citizens are against, and the situation at KIM. I got the answer, and you gave it now, because it came from the government. Mrs. Komic, you should have asked yourself as Gordana Komic, since you are the promoter of this special session for this day, when you already know everything and know what the order is, you could have called nicely and asked the President of the Assembly for an answer and asked the Government what about the response to these previous two interpretations. No, it answers to you now that this Mr. Sretkovic, whose three SPO deputies didn't go into the O.R. to defend him, is so much of the misery SPO here, but the DS have come to hear how they're going to defend him for these numerous abuses. You're telling us now that we're calling on the wrong member by asking the government to do its job. Their deadline was 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62328	There's no damage to article 107. I've informed the National Assembly of the procedure and the time limits for interpretation. Please don't throw it away. If we want to respect the Rules of Procedure, then let's start by respecting the Rules of Procedure and not thinking that the rules of business apply equally to everyone, but only to some. According to the procedure and time limits, the interpretations submitted by the SRS were sent within the deadline to the government for interpretation of the National Assembly and the session was scheduled within the deadline. There's no damage to article 107. On the contrary, the National Assembly has scheduled a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62329	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 223, which refers to the interpretation of the work of the Government very precisely in the first position, speaks of it...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62330	National MP, this member cannot be harmed during this session. I refer you to Article 103, which states that the MP has the right to receive his word and to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure only if it is an injury that occurred during the session. I fully understand, and I find it legitimate to use the free word and to apply it, but I don't find it legitimate to abuse it. I give my word to Milorad Buhi, the representative of the interpreter, to explain the interpretation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62331	Ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, the SRS parliamentary group, with a total of 57 signatures of MPs, has given an interpretation of the legality of the work of business and responsibility of the minister of religion and diaspora, Srdjana Sredkovic. On behalf of the SRS, I will present here the basic elements that the SRS has come up with by following the work of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, and I will divide my speech into two parts, one will be legal, the other will be financial. In the legal part, I have to point to the basic elements of the interpretation. Interpletion is a constitutional-legal concept, defined by Article 129, which says "at least 50 MPs can put up with the interpretation of government or individual government members' work. The government is obliged to respond to the interpretation within 30 days," etc. The SRS parliamentary club, within the prescribed deadline in formal terms, sent an interpretation that was accepted at the National Assembly's office on 8 September 2011. According to the provisions of the Constitution, Article 129(2) of the Constitution, the government was obliged to respond within 30 days, so it stands in the Constitution. The government responded in writing under number 05021-7749 in 2011 on 14 October. That was also accepted in the National Assembly office on October 14th. It means it's been more than 30 days, which is a violation of the Constitution, which isn't the first time. We've heard, from my predecessors, that in two interpretations directed by the SRS, it's a far greater shift than those 30 days, but it seems to be with this government normally. What is important to point out is that the interpretation is sent in accordance with the Constitutional basis and provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Labour. Formally the right conditions are met, as has the Legislative Committee, so I will move on to the second part of the lab relating to the financial part, the organisation-technical and financial part of this interpretation and the meaning of the interpretation. Namely, the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, adopted by the assembly since 2009, envisions the activities of the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region. However, in the aftermath of the government's reconstruction, this Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, but does not change anything, since it is a law that is now in force, which at point 4, says - that among other activities, the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, the work of preserving and strengthening the ties between the mother country and the diaspora. In article 6, which will be the most quoted here, there was an injury. The title above Article 6 is – Subfinancing of projects. The member reads – In order to realise the realisation of Article 4, I said, I quoted Article 4 - The Ministry of Diaspora responsible for diaspora as calling for a competition for co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of parent and diaspora ties, as well as the mother states and Serbs in the region. What's important is to point out, I'm now going to quote Article 7 which is related to this Article 6. So -- it's an obligation for the ministry to call a competition, and when the funds are allocated, then it's submitted by the users of these funds to report on the implementation of the project. So we're going to go a little bit wider on the realization, that is, this report and the realization through this preliminary exposure. The 2011 budget law, the Ministry of Diaspora, has been defined by the 26-function 410, economic classification 481, amounting to 30 million 300,000 dinars. Based on the quoted Law on Diaspora on Serbs in the region, the minister adopted a Regulation on the coming conditions in 2009 on the granting of funds for co-financing of projects, which provides that funds for co-financing of projects can be granted to organisations of Serbs in the region, as well as organisations based in the Republic of Serbia, based on their proposed project aimed at, under 1-use, learning, preservation and care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, the preservation and care of Serbian, cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity. Under 2 - improving the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, such as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region. Based on the call for competition and the administrative procedure for meeting the conditions, the minister made two decisions. One decision is to co-finance a total of 39 projects and the decision was made on 14 June 2010, a total of 39 projects were adopted. The second decision has been divided since 5 November 2010 and a total of eight million and 100 dinars and 27 projects have been accepted. What's the matter? What are projects that do not correspond to the essence, the meaning of the Diaspora Act and Serbs in the region, the Rules of Procedure, as you say here, to the nearer conditions, a bit of a strange name closer, and the process of granting funds to co-finance projects. I'll quote here, they're listed in the interpretation. In the first decision of 14 June 2010, project number 19, which has no project name, is controversial. The applicant is FK "Obilić" – Herceg Novi and the total amount approved is 450 000 dinars. Why is he slow? The question arises how the FK, which is not registered for the activities covered by this law, will neither be registered for the international co-operation's work because of the club in Montenegro. How will this same club work on the use, learning, preservation, care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter? Or the preservation and care of Serbian, cultural, ethnic and religious identity? Or improving the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region? That's controversial. The second disputed project has also been a project since 14 June 2010, under the name of project "Early Mountain First Victory". What does it have to do with preserving, preserving and improving Serbia's relations with the diaspora? The applicant is the Yugoslav Army in the country in 1941 to 1945, standing from Belgrade, with no address and no other information relating to this association of citizens. Again, how will this association of citizens work to improve and co-operate between strengthening economic ties and relations, etc. In total, the project provides for 100,000 dinars. Then, the decision of 5 November 2010, the name of the project is "The 11th judo trophy Zvonko Osmajlic", which is the applicant of the project's Battle Sports Centre, Zvonko Osmajlic, again without an exact address, without other data, totaling 150 thousand dinars. The fourth disputed decision, the fourth disputed project, has been a decision since 5 November 2010, the name of the project is "The 11th Veselin Boskovic Memorial Tournament", which is the submission of the project by the Šahovo-Sports Society Veselin Boskovic, in total of 100,000 dinars. The name of the applicant, from the name of the project, from defined funds, from the registration of these clubs, it is evident that it is not about associations of citizens working to improve links between Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the queen. Furthermore, if it is not about the dedicated funds clearly defined by the member, economic classification 481, it is about political abuse because the funds are shared on a political basis. In addition, the minister and the team acting on behalf of the ministry who carried out all the administrative procedures committed abuse of their official position because they allocated funds to associations of citizens and thus made possible the same, property and financial benefits, by unlawfully placing in a privileged position, i.e. status, through a conscious violation of Articles 5 and 6. Diaspora law and Serbs in the region. In addition, the remaining funds in the economic classification of 481 in the amount of 12 million and 200 000 dinars have been allocated without competition, contrary to the procedure provided for by the Budgetary System Act and the Regulation on the near conditions and the procedure for the allocation of funds for co-financing of projects. So the first division and the first decision is for 37 applicants a total of 10 million dinars and the second of eight million and 100. The remaining funds in this economic classification are 12 million and 200. What is the fate of these funds? We can see this in the government's response, and it is said that – funds to preserve and strengthen the ties between the mother country and the diaspora, as well as the Serb mother states in the region, provide the budget of the Republic of Serbia specifically to the 2010 Budget Act for the economic classification of 481 grants to government organisations, division 26 of the Diaspora Ministry, are defined by the funds of 30 million and 300,000 dinars. A share of 305,000 dinars from this economic classification has been transferred to the economic classification of 483 fines and penals after court resolution. How is it possible that the dedicated funds used to finance the diaspora and queen co-operation projects should be directed for a completely different purpose, in this case they are fines and foams for the decision of the courts? The answer further points out - the available resources of this projection of 7.279.524.92 dinars, the funds of this position are intended for the implementation of the government's work programme for 2010. Finally, the amount of 4,661,511.31 dinars were returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I must point out that I asked the Ministry of Finance on 17 January 2011 asking the Ministry of Finance to provide all information relating to Article 59(4). The budget system law at the end of the financial year, which was transferred after the end of the financial year, which has not been spent, which has been passed on to a direct or indirect user and which has been returned to the budget. This is an obligation to Article 59(4). I got a response from the ministry where no money, no penny was returned by the ministry, etc. So what was brought out by the government, that 4,611,000 was returned to the budget, that's not true. I have confirmation here by the Ministry of Finance. The provisions of Article 59(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council should therefore be amended accordingly. In addition, in response to this impelation on the supervision of the first decision of 14 June 2010, so say this - the Minister's decision number and that, as of 17 January 2011, a working group has been educated at the Ministry for the Control of Reports on the Implementation of Projects in Competitions for Financing. I must once again warn of the provision of Article 7. Diaspora law and Serbs in the region which obliges the user to submit a realisation report within 30 days. The report's working group held a meeting on 17 March 2011 and found that 20 out of 37 total, meaning 25 project applicants met the contract of the envisaged link. One project applicant partially fulfilled the contract of the envisaged obligation and 13 project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled the contract of the envisaged obligations. Furthermore, on 29 March 2011, project applicants who failed to submit a report on the implementation of the project, or who submitted a partial report, were invited to submit a report on the implementation of the projects, or to supplement the report already submitted. The applicants are contacted by telephone. The report's working group was on 22 September, so 15 months after the decision was made, 15 months had been an obligation to deliver or a shorter deadline to deliver the report, according to the task force found - a task force to control the report on 22 September 2011 held a meeting and found that a total of 39 project applicants met the contract of the project, five project applicants partially met the contract of the project and four project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled the contract of the envisaged obligation. It's unacceptable and it's not allowed to be monitored this way. The funds, which are intended to co-finance certain joint projects of these entities and the state, in this case the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, not to submit a report after 15 months. That's how you do it, and then in the end, you find out to the applicants who haven't delivered an orderly report a warning will be sent before the prosecution as the last means of warning. To this day, you have not delivered that warning before the suit, and the question is when will the service come and how will you charge. It's been 15, 16, 18 months, etc. What's that court gonna do? It is similar with the second division, you have also spent ten months konstating – the applicants who have not submitted an orderly report will receive a warning before the suit as the last warning. I must warn you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the near conditions and the procedure for the granting of funds for the co-financing of projects. The provisions of Articles 6 and 8–30 are clear and you must include your surveillance system. First, you didn't participate in these activities, you didn't participate in adequate surveillance, and that's why this interpretation is. What is required in the end by this interpretation? A debate is required in this parliament, to determine the responsibility of the minister of religion and diaspora and to resolve it because the excessive provisions of the Ministry Act, the Law on Serbs in diaspora and Serbs in the region, the Law on the Budgetary System and many other laws which, unfortunately, are not applied in the way they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62332	The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62333	Madam Vice-President, the President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, first and foremost, I would like to express my satisfaction that the democratic institutions of this country are increasingly functioning, which is an increasing opportunity for the representatives of the legislative authority and the executive authorities to discuss matters of importance for the functioning of the country, and in that sense it is really good that the interpretation practice is being introduced as a new opportunity to discuss the representatives of the Government and the National Assembly on the functioning of our country. It is particularly important for me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its response to the interpretation, which is the subject of today's debate, completely rejected all the allegations from the interpretation of the SRS MPs and actually gave me full support for a new policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region that we started by establishing this government. I think the whole public can see that a really significant shift has been made when we talk politics towards dissipation, which is very important, given that nearly four million of our people live outside our country's borders. The Serbian government, in its response, has found that the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora respects the principles of efficiency, economy, efficiency and the public in full and accuracy of the single budget classification when preparing the budget. The same applies to the co-financing of projects where legal and dedicated economic and efficient use of budgetary projections is strictly taken into account. The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora treats the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally, and public competitions are used in practice imperatively, with the desire to give everyone an equal chance to present their ideas that contribute to the development of relations between the state of Serbia, the diaspora and Serbs in the region. The Serbian government has really taken this interpretation very seriously, because we wanted to do so within the government, as well as from my ministry, to really explain the whole procedure, so that it would actually be clear to the citizens of Serbia how responsible, serious and domestically we treat the objectively modest resources that the Ministry has, given that the ministry's budget represents 0.025% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia, but we have managed to really make a significant shift when we talk about the relationship between the state of Serbia and our people living abroad. So, the Serbian government has found in its response that unfounded are all the allegations from the interpretation of a group of MPs of the SRS Parliament club. The ministry law stipulates that the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora performs the tasks of the state administration, which inter alia concern improving the ties of immigrants, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, living abroad and their organisations with the Republic of Serbia, informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad about the politics of the Republic of Serbia, creating conditions for the inclusion of immigrants, persons of Serbian origin and citizens of Serbia living abroad, into the political economic life of the Republic of Serbia and their return to the Republic of Serbia, as well as other tasks set by law. One way to improve the ties between diaspora and Serbs in the region with the country of origin, one of the conditions for the inclusion of emigrants, persons of Serbian origin and citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, in the political economic and cultural life of Serbia, is achieved in part through co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and the diaspora, as both the mother states and Serbs in the region. The co-financing of projects is carried out fully in accordance with the Law on Ministries, the Law on Diaspora, Serbs in the region, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for each specific year and the Regulation on the Near Conditions and the procedure for the allocation of funds for co-financing of projects. It is very important to note that just at the time of this government's mandate, during this call by the ministry, the National Assembly adopted the first law on diaspora for Serbs in the region, which is actually prescribed that a competition be called for to co-finance projects. When I was elected minister of the diaspora, I faced the fact that there was no normative basis for the ministry's functioning and for policy-making towards diaspora and Serbs in the region, and that was why we adopted this first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, which is one of the few laws in which we did not see too much of the solutions of other countries, but other countries are now using the solutions that we provided for in our law in the procedure of adopting these laws. It is these days that the Croatian Parliament adopts a law on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which are largely based on the experience and good things of our law, and it is a special pleasure to me because it shows how well this law is a quality and good basis for policymaking. At all the regional international forums and gatherings, when it comes to migration policy, when it comes to diaspora and compatriots of some citizens living outside the country's borders, this law is always a good, positive example and practice that others look up to, it is indeed a great pleasure and recognition for me and my colleagues who have participated in the making of this law. And once again, I would like to stress, therefore, that making this law to a Serbian citizen in a budgetary sense has cost no single dinar, no foreign expert has been hired on the side, only using positive experience and the positive will of those people on the side to help us make a very good quality law that Serbian citizens did not cost funds from the budget. The intensities of the legislator, when we talk about a segment that in some way refers to interpretation, was just to avoid any arbitraryness, the discretionary right of any individual, firmly representing the position of the policy towards the diaspora should be the result of a broad consensus, and I think we've really done a lot in that field. The funds for preserving and strengthening the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora as the home state of Serbs in the region are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for economic classification 481 and in 2010 the funds amounting to 30 million and 300,000 dinars are defined. The Ministry of Diaspora in 2010 in line with the budget and the Law on the Budgetary System used budget adjunction up to the amount determined for each purpose in the budget. The ministry has no obligation to take over in accordance with approved appraisals and not implemented during 2010, so nothing has been transferred over the next financial year. On the contrary, 7.279,524 dinars have been returned from the economic classification 481 to the Serbian budget, and funds from this position are also intended for the implementation of the government's 2010 work programme. I would especially like to stress that the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora is acting according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally, and that is the basic principle that I, as Head of the Ministry, introduced when I and my colleagues set out to deal with the policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region, and I really believe that this should be one of those segments of state policy that should not depend on the composition of the executive authority and the interest of individual political parties and that this is one of those issues which, as a society that slowly matures, we should reach a broad consensus. The terms and procedure for the grant of funds for co-financing of projects were prescribed by the Diaspora and Serbs law in the region and the Regulation on the nearer conditions and the procedure for the granting of funds for co-financing of projects, which was also the result of the ministry's appeal, therefore, did not exist before. The ministry is calling for a project co-financing competition that contributes to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and the diaspora, where participation rights are held by diaspora organisations, as well as associations of citizens whose headquarters is in the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora for each year announces a project co-financing competition that contributes to the preservation and strengthening of the ties between the mother country and the diaspora, on which the participation rights of the Serb organisations in the region that are registered and have its head office in the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and the Republic of Hungary, precisely with the aim that the state of Serbia as a country that regains credibility to define and represent its own state and national interests, in fact, to be a point of focus and to encourage members of the Serb people in the countries of the region to meet their international standards of guaranteed rights, and to be a promoter and advocate of policy for the development of good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation. The right to participate in this competition for co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora as the home states of Serbs in the region do not have, I stress this, and in particular direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets, individuals and economic operators, i.e. profit entities. The subject of the competition is the co-financing of projects aimed at the use, learning, preservation, care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters and the preservation of everything that involves the care of the Serbian cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity and under two, the improvement of the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region, which gives great attention to the huge economic potential of our people living abroad, which for decades has not been used enough, and I think that in the last three years and on this plan we have indeed made a significant shift. The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora makes a decision to call every concrete competition for co-financing of projects, and the text of the competition is always an integral part of the decision to call a competition, i.e. it is absolutely public. In line with the principle of public work, every co-financing contest is published on the official website of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, which I can proudly say is highly visited, as it provides a very large number of concrete and relevant information for our people living abroad. Also, the co-financing contests are published in the Serbian-language public ballots, which go out in the diaspora and have a high level of coverage, and this is "Frankfurt News" all editions, the European edition "Kurira" and the European edition "Evening News". The application to the competition, which is submitted to the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, is very complete, very comprehensive and actually defines all those elements to make sure that those who pass the application procedure can come to the attention of the consideration in support of their projects. Under one, basic data on project applicants, name of organisation, seat of organisation, name and last name of person authorised to sign the contract, telephone, internet address, account number, contact person, signature of the applicant and seal of the organisation. Under two, the content of the project, i.e. detailed and reasoned content of the project. Under three, data on the participants in the project. Under the four objectives of the project, i.e. the detailed and reasoned objective of the project and the results to be achieved. Under five, which are target groups and users of the project results. Under six, the justification of the project, i.e. the detailed justification of the project in relation to the tasks and objectives of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Under 7, time of project realization. Under 8, the earthly realization of the project. Under 9, the presentation of the co-financer, thus informing participants in the project, users of the project's results, the media and the general public that the project is implemented with the help of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. Under the 10th pre-account, i.e. a detailed overview of the pre-calculation of the costs necessary for the implementation of the project and below 11, a project evaluation plan to assess the feasibility of the project. The competition application must be signed by a person authorised to represent the organisation, which is determined on the basis of insight into the solution, registration in the organisation's register. The application must be certified by the seal of the organisation which is the applicant of the project, and if the application is not signed by the authorised person or not certified by the organisation's orderly seal, it shall be automatically rejected as messy. In addition to the application for a competition, it is submitted as a mandatory document on the entry into the register of organisations, as well as evidence that the organisation in the diaspora, i.e. Serbs in the region, is registered in accordance with the regulations of the foreign state in which the diaspora lives, i.e. in accordance with the rules of the state on the basis of which the Serb organisations in the region act. The decision to register an organisation as proof that the organisation is registered in accordance with the regulations of the state in which it operates must be translated into Serbian language by an authorised court interpreter. The attached documentation remains permanent in the archives of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora and is not returned to the applicants. Also, along with the application for the competition, a statement by the authorised person of the applicant was made under criminal and material responsibility that all the information listed in the application for the application is true and accurate, and that the applicant has no unfulfilled obligations to the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora of the Republic of Serbia. The statement, as well as the application form, can be downloaded at the official website of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. The minister of religion and diaspora makes a decision on the education of the task force of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora for the selection of projects in the competition for co-financing of projects, which also sets out the task of the task of the task of the working group for each individual project co-financing contest. A special solution is called the Coordinator and members of the Working Group, and this solution sets out by name the duties of members of the Working Group, in relation to the tasks that need to be done in order to realise the competition. One member of the task force is a mandatory civil servant who is responsible for accepting applications for competition and keeping them on the list of acts and is responsible for recording, keeping, sorting and archiving materials, which has been prepared and which was created in the work of the Ministry throughout the competition process. Reports have been received for the competition at the end of the time limit for receipt of applications, to state officials who are graduate lawyers and who are tasked with considering competition applications and documentation attached. They actually determine the timeliness of the applications received, therefore, whether the application has been filed within the time limit provided for in the text of the competition, then the permission of the applications received. Therefore, they shall verify whether the application has been submitted by the authorised applicant, i.e. associations or organisations, under 3. – completeness of the documentation and regularity of the application. They therefore verify that the application is orderly and complete and that all the necessary documentation is attached, which includes a solution to the registration of the organisation, as proof that the organisation is registered in accordance with the rules in which it operates, with translation of the authorised judicial interpretation for Serbian language, a statement signed by the authorised person and certified by the organisation which is the applicant of the project, the project table and the detailed project according to all the individual items in the application. The processors shall prepare a table picture of all the applications that have been received which must contain: the date of submission of the project, the name of the country from which the applicant is the project, the name of the project, the year of establishment of the organisation, the classification of the project, the total budget of the project, the amount requested by the Ministry of Sufinancing, the fulfilment of the formal conditions, the name and the name of the processor of the subject. Untimely, unauthorized, incomplete and disorderly applications, by authorised members of the task force at this stage of the competition process, are automatically rejected and these projects are further and are not considered. Processors, graduated lawyers, by their signature, confirm that the applications they have reviewed are timely, permitted, complete and orderly or rejected as untimely, unauthorized, incomplete and disorderly. Thus, a tableboard presentation of all the applications received for the competition, together with a complete documentation of the project that meets the conditions for co-financing of the project, shall be submitted to the members of the working group who are tasked with establishing a proposal for a decision on the grant of the project co-financing fund. The members of the working group tasked with establishing a proposal for a grant decision, analyse each project individually, and only those projects for which graduates have previously found that they are timely, permitted, complete and orderly, estimating whether, by their quality, these projects contribute to strengthening the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region, as well as the overallity of the project, taking into account their content, objective and justification of the project in relation to the tasks of the Ministry and after reviewing all the orderly applications for the competition, they set out a proposal for a decision on the grant of funds to co-finance the project. Otherwise, this part of the working group is made up of state secretaries and assistants of the minister of diaspora, as they handle the round areas of work of the Ministry for which sectors are educated and on status issues, on economic issues of diaspora and on cultural, scientific, educational and sports co-operation with the diaspora. When analysing projects and project choices, whose funding will be proposed by the minister, this part of the working group is strictly responsible for risk management, which includes identifying, assessing and controlling potential events and situations that may have a opposite effect on achieving the Ministry's objectives than those desired. On the basis of a proposal for a working group decision, made up of state secretaries and assistant ministers, the minister of religion and diaspora sign a decision published on the website of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora and thus becomes available in an appropriate manner absolutely to everyone. The decision shall contain the name of the project promoter organisation or association, the name of the project, the country from which the organisation is designated and the amount of financial resources approved for each individual project. On the basis of the decision on the allocation of funds, the co-financing agreement with each organisation shall be signed with the individual who has been authorised to co-finance the project. In addition to the basic elements, the contract shall, in particular, specify the obligations of the user of the means relating to the purpose of spending of the appropriations. Thus, Article 2 on co-financing is provided that the beneficiary of the funding is obliged to implement the project in accordance with the cost forecast provided for in the documentation, to enable the Ministry to take into account the documentation and to keep it permanently, to submit a narrative and financial report on the dedicated use of the necessary evidence within 15 days after the completion of the project, the Ministry shall submit an extraordinary report on the course of the project, as well as on the funds spent at any time when the Ministry requests it to inform the public accordingly, i.e. that the Ministry has participated in the co-financing of the project. Article 5 The co-financing agreement provides that, in the event that the project is not implemented within the intended period or not all defined funds are spent, the beneficiary shall be obliged to return funds to the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. State officials who have prepared each specific Sufining Treaty shall prepare the documentation necessary to make payment to the taxpayers of the funds - signed contract, application to the competition, proof of the legal status of the entity. After the signing of the financing contract, a transfer decision shall be adopted within seven days. Project applicants who have not been approved shall be informed that their applications have been rejected as untimely, unauthorized, incomplete or disorderly, or that the working group is unable to support their project financially at a given time. To control the dedicated use of funds, the decision of the minister of religion and the diaspora is educated by the task force to control the report on the implementation of projects from competition for co-financing of the project. The control of dedicated use of funds shall be carried out on the basis of a report on the implementation of projects which are required to be submitted within 30 days of the day of implementation of the projects, but not from the day of transfer of the funds. The project implementation report shall contain the following data – evidence that the projects are implemented in accordance with the pre-account of the costs mentioned in the competition documentation, evidence that project applicants have sent a report in accordance with the assumed mandatory report on the written form containing data on how the approved funds are used, evidence that the public has been duly informed that the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora has participated in the co-financing of projects and the signature of an authorised person. The Diaspora Labour Group is in constant contact with the co-financing project applicants and is making sure that the procedure for the implementation of the co-financing contest is prescribed. Contact with co-financing project applicants shall be made by e-mail, telephone or personal means, continuously throughout the project implementation period. After the deadline for submission of the co-financing report in the contract provided for by the deadline, the evaluation of the implementation of the projects and the funds spent shall be carried out. The report control working group reviewes all the reports received and determines which project applicants have not submitted the required reports on the implementation of the projects. The working group also makes up a report on the financial reports received by the users of the funds, their full and contained, as well as accompanying documentation, as well as a narrative piece containing a description of the concrete implementation of the project. Those project applicants who have not submitted the requested reports, or whose reports are not fully written, shall be sent written notices to submit, or to supplement, reports within eight days. If the projects are not implemented within the intended time limit or not all allocations are spent, the beneficiaries are obliged to return funds to the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. If they do not return funds at the expense of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, the ministry shall initiate court proceedings in the legal manner provided for, through the Republic of Public Attorney's Office. For example, the Association of Serbs from Greece did not submit a report on the intentional use of funds, so a procedure was initiated before the competent judicial authorities. When we speak of co-financing of projects that contribute by their quality to strengthening and preserving the Serbian country of origin in the region, on 15 April 2010, a competition for co-financing of projects was launched, which contribute to strengthening and preserving the ties between the mother country and Serbs in the region. The decision educated the Ministry's Working Group for the selection of projects in the co-financing contest, and the Decision to appoint members of the Labour Group of the Ministry has appointed members of the group and state secretaries and assistants, in particular, not only from the Ministry of Diaspora, but also from all other ministries whose work is part of the work so that they participate more or less in implementing policies towards Serbs in the region. Under Decision of 14 June, the Diaspora Ministry, on the basis of a proposal from the Working Group, co-financed 39 projects, and with project applicants approved by the co-financing funds, concluded co-financing contracts under the law. In accordance with the commitment contract, the beneficiaries are obliged to submit to the Ministry a report on the implementation of the project, or to provide evidence that the project is implemented in accordance with the pre-account of costs given in the competitive documentation, narrative and financial report with all evidence, a report signed by an authorised person, as well as evidence that they have appropriately informed the public that the ministry has participated in the co-financing of the project. The resolution of ministers from 17 January 2011 educated the Ministry's Working Group for the Control of Reports on the implementation of projects from the co-financing contest. The task of the Working Group is to establish and establish in the record whether the project was implemented in accordance with the pre-account of the costs given in the competitive documentation, whether project applicants sent a report in accordance with the commitment, I mean a narrative and financial report, with all evidence, whether the report signed the authorised person as well as in the competition documentation and whether the evidence provided that they adequately informed the public that the ministry had participated in co-financing of the projects. The report control working group, on 17 March, held a meeting and concluded that a total of 25 project applicants met with the contract of the envisaged obligation, one project applicant did so in part and 30 projects failed to provide the envisaged evidence by that time that they had fulfilled the contract of the envisaged commitments. On 29 March 2011, project applicants who failed to submit a report on the implementation of the project, or who submitted a partial report, were invited to submit a report on the implementation of the project, or to supplement the reports already submitted. The applicants are also contacted by telephone, to deliver, or to supplement project implementation reports. On 22 September 2011, the report control working group held a meeting and concluded that a total of 30 project applicants met the contract of the project, five project applicants partially met the contract of the project and four project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled the contract of the envisaged commitments. The applicants who have not submitted an orderly report shall be informed of the action, as the final means of warning, and after that, in accordance with the law, a judicial procedure in co-operation with the Republic of Public Defence shall be initiated. When we talk about a project co-financing contest that contributes by its quality to strengthening and preserving the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora in 2010, I would like to stress that on 10 December 2010, a competition for co-financing of projects has been launched that contributes to strengthening and preserving ties between the mother country and the diaspora. The Decision of 16 September 2010 educated the Labour Group of the Ministry for the Making of Projects in the Co-financing Competition, and the Decision appointing members of the Labour Group of the Diaspora Ministry since 16 September appointed members of the Working Group. The task of the Working Party is to consider competition applications and documentation annexed, to confirm compliance with the criteria foreseen by the competition and to establish a proposal for a decision on co-financing of projects. On the basis of a proposal for a decision from 5 November 2010, the diaspora ministry co-financed 27 projects. The project applicants, which have been granted funding for co-financing, have concluded co-financing contracts, and the beneficiaries are obliged, in accordance with the contractual obligation, to submit to the Ministry, after completion, a report on the implementation of the project, or to provide evidence that the project has been implemented in accordance with the pre-financing of the costs given in the competitive documentation, a narrative financial report with all evidence and a report signed by the authorised person, as well as in the competitive documentation, as well as evidence that they have appropriately informed the public that the ministry has participated in the co-financing of the projects. The resolution of ministers from 13 January 2011 educated the Ministry of Control's Working Group for Control, Report and Realisation of projects from the co-financing contest. The task of the Working Party is to establish and establish in the record whether the project has been implemented in accordance with the pre-account of the costs given in the competitive documentation, whether project applicants have sent a report in accordance with their commitment, is meant to be a narrative financial report with all evidence, whether the report has signed an authorised person, the same as in the competition documentation, and whether the supporting evidence has been adequately provided, whether it has been demonstrated that the public has been informed that the ministry has participated in the co-financing of the projects. The report's working group, on 23 May 2011, held a meeting and found that a total of five project applicants met with a contract for the project, while 22 projects still failed to provide for a commitment contract. On 2 July 2011, project applicants who failed to submit a report on the implementation of the projects, or who submitted a partial report, were invited to submit a report on the implementation of the project, or to supplement the report already submitted. The applicants are contacted by telephone to deliver, or to supplement, project implementation reports. After that, the Report Control Working Group held a meeting on 21 September 2011 and concluded that 21 applicants met the contract of the intended obligation, two applicants partially did so, and four project applicants failed to provide evidence at that time that they had fulfilled the contract of the intended obligations. The task force for monitoring project implementation reports has submitted a report to the minister of religion and diaspora since 21 September 2011. The applicants who have not submitted an orderly report will be given the last warning before the complaint as a special means of warning. It will then be possible to initiate a judicial procedure in accordance with the law, in co-operation with the Republic of Public Attorney's Office. During 2010, the funds provided by the 2010 Budget Law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Budgets of Economic Classification 481, in addition to the basic payments made by two competition decisions, realised another 4.661.511 dinars, to implement the government's 2010 work programme, which was adopted by the Government's conclusion of 4 February 2010. The government's 2010 work programme envisions, among other things, the implementation of the project "Serbia in Europe – Meet the State of Serbia", the creation of conditions for granting national recognitions for outstanding contributions, results and merits in the area of realisation, co-operation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and the diaspora, as well as the countries of origin and Serbs in the region and creating conditions for improving and co-operation in areas of importance for the preservation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and Serbs in the region. In accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The government law is responsible for implementing the government's programme and policy. According to the Law on free access to information of public importance, the work of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora as public authorities is transparent and public. All information of importance arising from the work or work of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, and regarding everything the public has an interest in knowing, is available to all applicants for access to information of public importance. In the last year alone, the ministry responded within the shortest legal period to more than 30 requests for free access to information, all under equal conditions, individuals, organisations and public ballots. In particular, I would like to stress that there is also a very detailed informer on the website of the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora on the work of the Ministry, which contains all relevant information for the work of the Ministry that can be of importance to the general public. In accordance with Article 23. The law on state administration, the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora is run by a minister of religion and diaspora representing the ministry, making rules and solutions in administrative and other individual matters and deciding on other issues from the work of the Ministry of Religion and Diaspora. The minister of religion and diaspora by means of a material regulation has been empowered to decide, among other things, on co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region. However, although there is no legal obligation, the minister of religion and diaspora for each competition educates a competition commission which is tasked with properly implementing the procedure and fully determining the factual situation. State secretaries, ministerial assistants, are proposing what kind of decision they will make. As they manage the round areas of the Ministry's work, for which the sectors are educated, it is a ministerial decision that they establish a proposal for a decision, in fact, the best way to make projects related to all areas, which are: culture, scientific, educational co-operation and sport, economy and status issues, so that they are best represented to make the decision the best possible. The co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region, is fully carried out in accordance with the Law on Ministrys, Diaspora and Serbs in the region, the Law on the Budget of the Republic for each specific year and the Regulation on the near conditions for the granting of funds for the co-financing of projects. All the funds prescribed by the 2010 Budget Law were purposely defined and purposely spent. The funds from those economic classifications are designed to implement projects that contribute to strengthening and preserving ties between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region and to the implementation of the government's 2010 Work Programme, which was adopted on 4 February 2010. The allocation of funds has been fully carried out in accordance with the positive legal regulations, both material and procedural nature. All funds for those economic classifications have been allocated exclusively to authorised applicants for competition projects and for the realisation of the projects envisaged by the Government's 2010 Work Programme. The dedicated appropriations covered by the EC 481 were allocated on the basis of the quality of projects and exclusively for projects aimed at joint co-operation between the queen and the diaspora, i.e. Serbs in the region, legal-valid and established in the affairs of preserving the language and religious identity of our people. All selected projects undoubtedly contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between queens and diaspora and Serbs in the region and there is no conflict between the objectives of selected projects and the objectives of the ministry. On the contrary, the objectives of the selected projects are justified and justified in relation to the Ministry's goals and the government's general policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region. A very thorough, very serious and responsible analysis has been carried out of all users' dedicated spending reports, in accordance with the contract and cost calculation and based on the results of such analysis, the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora is acting in accordance with the positive-legal regulations. The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, when preparing for the implementation of the budget, respects the principles of efficiency, economics, efficiency, public, complete, accuracy and uniform budgetary classification. The same is true for co-financing of projects, where legal and dedicated economic and efficient use of budget projections is strictly taken into account. The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora acts according to the rules of profession, impartially and politically neutrally and public competition is used in practice, with the desire to give everyone an equal chance to present their ideas in order to preserve and strengthen the ties of the mother country and the diaspora. The Ministry and the Government were really trying to make the answer to the interpretation very serious, very responsible, very specific, detailed. We respect the institution of the National Assembly, respect the institution of interpretation and respect every opportunity in which representatives of the National Assembly and the executive authorities discuss all the topics that are important to the citizens of Serbia. Once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that within the Serbian government there is an absolute consensus that this new policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region is being implemented for one long term. I believe this is one of those issues that is very important that there is a broader social consensus, given the great economic, political, cultural, and also the lobbying potential of diaspora and Serbs in the region. I believe that the time has passed when our people outside Serbia were abused, that today's Serbia, as a democratic country that respects international law, also has its own legitimate state and national interests and wants to build the closest possible relations of co-operation with nearly four million of our people around the world, that the task of all of us is to use all the potentials of our national and social corpus for the needs of the country's internal and foreign policy and that in this future development of our country we preserve our own national identity, to be the point of relying and gathering our entire dissipation, I mean the Republic of Serbia, but also that our people feel that they have a democratic and modern state that wants to work with them on partner grounds, but also who wants to be their backdrops and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62334	Thank you. I ask if they want the word of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The SRS parliamentary group, which submitted the initiative, has the right to use time for the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, if it wishes, independently of the presentation of the applicant. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word, I would like to inform you that they are, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted by the MEPs group ZES and the SRS parliamentary group. The first registered on the list of speakers, who wants to use his right to apply for a word in search of the first and only item of the agenda, is MP Janko Vesenovic, and after that, MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62335	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly is the democratic right and democratic achievement of the debate in the National Assembly on one subject which is subject to interpretation. Of course that's quite all right and that democracy in this House is only deepening. However, there is one question that could concern the proponent of this interpretation, the SRS parliamentary group, and it would say: Why did we not discuss this issue on the parent board, the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia? This committee is chaired by a member of the SRS, and I believe that this committee should and could have discussed this subject, perhaps before it is found a subject of impelation, although I do not at all dispute the possibility of finding such a point as an interpretation and that a ministry thus tries to challenge its work and seek the responsibility of the minister. However, on all the topics discussed on the Committee, we had a very correct communication on the Committee, we could say that we unanimously made decisions and that there was no question of who was a member of which party, because we said that the issue of Serbs in the region was not a party issue, but a question of the responsibility of the state of Serbia towards Serbs living outside Serbia, both in the region and in those who are in dissension, therefore, outside the borders of the former state of SFRY. So this issue could have been put at the Committee's session, however, it did not. The question could also be asked why we haven't had a session of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia since 31 March, why haven't we even discussed this session or the budget rebalancing, even though we were bound in some way? With all this in mind, and once again commending the work before that of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, it seems to me that this interpretation is nothing more than an attempt to challenge the work of a ministry and the work of the Government, which, in any case, could not be disputed, which has achieved significant results, I would say results that will be important in the coming years to maintain the continuity of relations between the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region, the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora. Why is this a ministry, or why do I think this ministry and this government have made a serious step in this area? Because before that almost there was no policy of the Serbian state towards the Serbs in the region and the diaspora, no legal acts that would normably regulate the area, no political documents dealing with this problem, but I would say that even before the government's term of office were too much of an interest in this area, especially for the previous government, means the government before 2008, although it was declaratively drilling into the chest when it comes to Serbia and Serbia's interest. The government has regulated the area normally, on a proposal from the ministry now for the diaspora a law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, a law that provides the possibility of Serbia's state worrying about the preservation of identity, culture, minority rights of Serbs living in the region and Serbs living outside the border, outside the region. I would say that this is particularly important for Serbs in the region, given that they lived in one country until the 1990s, that there was no question of threat to language, letters, disputed identity and that the adoption of such a law was necessary. Of course, this law is in line with all international norms dealing with the regulation of the position of minorities of a country of origin. We had in mind the laws of Israel, Italy, Spain and other countries that have significant diaspora. Serbs in the region welcomed the law and Serbs in the region are ruled under this law by asking the Serbian state to protect them when their rights are threatened, and they are not so rarely threatened today. In neighbouring countries, we have very often cases that challenge both language and letter, that even acquired rights are diminished by the adoption of certain acts that have legal character. In any case, the diaspora ministry, together with the foreign ministry and other ministries, will have a lot of work to do next to try to protect the rights of four million Serbs living outside Serbia. When we looked at the last census in Serbia, we saw that practically more than half the number of Serbs living in the country live outside Serbia. Of course, I count on all minority communities living in Serbia. I'd like to say one more thing, we were only on our way to protect the rights of the Serbs when we set up an area of protection for minority rights. So we tried to set an example for our neighbours as well as for the protection of minorities and what rights we give them in order to have the full right to ask other countries to do so. The government's mandate, based on the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, established a diaspora assembly and Serbs in the region as the most representative body of the diaspora and Serbs in the region. Several sessions have already been held within two sessions. What makes me think this is really important? Such congregations have very few countries. True, some countries have a different approach to delegateing representatives of people living outside the borders and even allowing direct representation in the congregation. I think the way that the Republic of Serbia has chosen is right, because this assembly has certain powers, has certain opportunities to propose to the Serbian government under the Diaspora Law and the region, it also proposes to the ministry that some of their initiatives be taken into account. What is very important is that in the term of this ministry, the Strategy for the Conservation and Strengthening of State Relations and Diaspora, as well as the countries of origin and Serbs in the region, has been adopted. The Council for Serbs in the region has also been formed as a consequence of this law, led by the president of the Republic, who at its present sessions has dealt with very important issues for Serbs in the region, but I would say that even the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, from the prime minister of the state, has a very high attitude towards Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora, some may be resented for it. Surely people headed by the Republic of Serbia have an obligation, now and legally, to take care of these people, especially in view of how Serbs remained out of the country of origin in the past war. They are not irrelevant to others, perhaps technical details that this government, or the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, has done, it is not irrelevant that Serbs outside Serbia can now without difficulty follow the signal of national service, i.e. RTS and Australia, in America, Canada and across Europe. We know it wasn't possible until recently, I think last year when the Diaspora Ministry concluded an agreement with RTS. It is not important that our KUD, the ensembles, which are very often supported by this ministry perform in the region and the world and the wider culture of Serbs, but also enable Serbs outside Serbia to monitor cultural developments, or achievements from Serbia. It is not important that Serbs from the region, Serbs from the world from this ministry, but also through other organisations such as "Our Serbia" are allowed to come and learn Serbian, to restore knowledge from the Serbian language, so children living outside the country and who do not have the opportunity to do so by their own means. Surely that's one of the ways to tie our diaspora to the queen. It doesn't matter what sports clubs our sports clubs and sports clubs of Serbs from abroad organize events, tournaments where they hang out. That's why it's really unclear why it could be controversial that one club called Obilić from Herceg Novi, we know that Herceg Novi is oriented against Serbia, which is granted funds to cultivate, or strengthen relations with the country of origin. In the details of the competition, I really wouldn't go in. The minister did it very detailedly. This is also seen in the government's response, it is seen that the rules are respected, that they are even very complicated, I could say, because they would be correct and that everyone can check that the criteria set before those who have applied for each project are respected and that is certainly necessary and that is done by every serious ministry. We ourselves know that these are EU standards, that their patterns and applications are very complicated, we would say, but precisely because their implementation could be monitored across all segments. Of course, and if a commission is formed and a decision is made by a minister, there are objective criteria. Of course there are to some extent subjective assessments of individual projects and when decisions are made it is inevitable. For this reason, we might be able to ask the question why this project has been given priority over this second project. However, it is important that the project, which received a passing assessment, meets all the criteria set by the ministry. Of course, care must also be taken about equality, i.e. to support projects in the same way in all parts of the region. So, in every country, at least one of the projects is funded. Perhaps the project under regular number three, for example, in Macedonia is more quality than the project under regular number one in Slovenia, but it would certainly be unfair to say that at least one project from Slovenia does not pass. I'm talking about having to take care of that factor of even representation. We used to ask on the Committee whether it might be more important to finance some projects from the region than projects, let's say, Serbs in the diaspora? However, we have received explanations from the ministry that there are simply needs in the diaspora and that it is not always possible for these projects to be self-financed, i.e. people living in the diaspora to finance some projects, that aid and states are needed. Certainly, it should not be taken to the ministry for evil by stone projects, which are the bearers of some projects, as regards maintaining ties between the queen and the diaspora, from the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because these projects include organizations, associations, diaspora. So, if a cultural event is organised in Serbia, and it is attended by members of the Serb minority from the region or diaspora, it can, of course, be taken as a manifestation that contributes to strengthening ties between the queen and Serbs in the region. For this reason, I would not owe it, I repeat again, the minister, but also the government in response to a negative response to the interpretation proposal and assessed it as unfounded, enough has been said about the SRS proposal and I do not think that this is an area where we could look for faults and that has been lagging behind the work of other ministries. I believe that a lot has been done in this field and that all together, as it was until 5-6 months ago when it started in a political struggle, we try to help improve the position of Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora regardless of party membership. To try to remove some of the ambiguities, perhaps, not by politicizing them, but by perhaps suggesting a way to make the ministry work even better in the future. I am certainly in favour of not only the Ministry of Diaspora, i.e. religion and diaspora, but all the ministries, given that we have passed 500 laws, each of the ministries on the parent committee shall, from time to time, submit a report on the application of the law, on the implementation of the law, on the work, on the adoption of sublegal acts, etc. I'm saying, this way, I mean in this case, it didn't seem to me to be serious, and that's why, of course, the government's assessment that he's unfounded. I honestly think all those who are familiar with the ministry's work, especially I think that our diaspora and Serbs in the region, highly appreciate the government's work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62336	Twenty minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by Srdjan Milivojevic, but he has an obligation outside the hall at 11. 30 And he shall receive the word if he returneth to the part of the sitting, when the right to speak shall be with the messengers with the enunciations. And after MP Srdjan Mikovic, the word will be given by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62337	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People and People's Parliaments, I suggest that in the day of the vote, on the basis of Article 226(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by voting, accept the answer to the interpretation. In response to the interpretation, I believe that the government has answered clearly and in detail all the questions that have arisen in the interpretation. We can also discuss whether those issues and topics that are in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly or whether they are in the jurisdiction of some other authorities in Serbia have been raised in the context of the interpretation. But in any case, when we analyse the full response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can conclude that everything that is in the process of preparing the competition process, then the decision on competition, the supervision of the implementation of the projects, done first and foremost with the aim of meeting as fully as possible those objectives that were the objectives of the competition, which is the use, learning, preservation and care of Serbian and Cyrillic letters, the preservation and care of Serbian, cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity, the improvement of the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region. In any case, in a detailed response to the Government, you can see in which way everything has been tried and managed to ensure transparency in the preparation of the competition, in the publication of competitions and in the implementation and decision-making itself, meaning which project will receive support and then in the realisation of individual projects themselves. We see, and yet I must say, that the National Assembly has passed the first Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region, and that legislation is prescribed that a competition be called for to co-finance projects. The minister at the time when the law was proposed was the same minister, so Mr. Sretkovic, and he was one with his associates, one of the initiators, the chief initiator to ever reach such a legal solution. The fact is that everything that has been done under the Ministry of Serbs, i.e. the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, is all published on the official website of the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, and I think it is a good practice that should never be abandoned. The fact is that various useful information can be reached on the site, allowing absolutely everyone, regardless of where and at what geographical distance they are, to see up-to-date any information and to respond to it. With regard to the report on the implementation of the projects, the fact is that the ministry in this part was extremely active and that it was absolutely trying and able to report itself, and yet I must say that of all those involved in the implementation of the projects there are different entities, some who are more capable, some who are less capable, but in any case, with the support of the ministry and with respect to the regulations, it has come to the conclusion that a huge number of those participants in the project have met all the requirements, and those who are not fully, they are insisted on completing the documentation. In any case, you saw from the government's reply that all the funds distributed from certain budget items were purposely defined and spent. The allocation of funds was fully implemented with a malt with positive legal regulations, both material and legal nature. All funds from that particular economic budget classification have been allocated exclusively to authorised applicants, means project applicants in competition and for the realisation of projects envisaged by the government's 2010 work programme. The appropriations are allocated on the basis of the quality of the projects, exclusively for projects aimed at joint cooperation between the queen and the diaspora, legally valid and based on conservation and strengthening of the link between the mother country and the diaspora. These budgets were aimed at safeguarding and fostering Serbian cultural, ethical, language and religious identity, thus enabling comprehensive support for our organisations and their activities in the fields of culture, science, education and sport. According to the government's assessment, all selected projects undoubtedly contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the queen and the diaspora and Serbs in the region and there is no conflict between the objectives of selected projects and the objectives of the ministry. The government found that an analysis of the dedicated spending report was carried out and found that the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora was acting in accordance with positive legal rules. It is further noted that the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora respects the principles of efficiency, economics, efficiency, the public, in full respect of the single budget classification. The same applies to co-financing of projects where legal, economical and efficient use of budget projections is strictly taken into account. The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora acted according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally, with the desire to give everyone an equal chance to present their ideas and projects in order to preserve and strengthen ties between the mother country and the diaspora. I must say that all that is stated in terms of the findings, and without checking all that data we received in response to the government, where it is claimed that Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjan Sredkovic is responsible, so it states that the alleged abuse of the official position, the accidental spending of funds, the allocation of funds to associations of citizens who do not meet the conditions and do not exercise supervision. Practically, all these problems are burdened Minister Sredkovic with something that is not the authority to decide either the government or the Assembly, but the judicial authorities. Obviously, if this was the government's response to any public prosecutor, he'd probably smile at everything that's said in the interpretation, because some of these credentials are very difficult for any individual, but I still have to say that this assembly meeting and all of us who have passed the law have called for the individual's responsibility, not the ministry. If the proposal would be accepted by the MPs from the opposition group, then only the ministry, not the minister, could be responsible in such situations. We are not running away from that, in the event of any inaccuracies, irregularities, not to say abuses, an individual should answer, but in any case, based on the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on what was carried out in relation to the competition on project implementation, with regard to the control of budgetary resources, there is no speech. Not that there is no talking about the existence of a criminal offence, but there is no talking about the existence of a failure regarding what is stated in the interpretation of the SRS parliamentary group. I repeat the proposal, I propose that, on the basis of Article 226(1), in the voting day, the National Assembly accepts the response to the interpretation and confirms that everything within the ministry has been done properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62338	Nine minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must say this is one of the strangest debates we've ever attended. Those who follow this in front of small screens and who have not had the opportunity to read the interpretation, to read the government's reply, may have heard something new, but for those of us who have read and signed the interpretation submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and who have read the reply signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, we have indeed heard nothing new. Mr. Sredkovic, I think we had to hear something from you here, that we had to hear your opinion. The first question I want to ask you is whether you were in the role of the speaker of the Prime Minister of the Government, because you read for 35 minutes 15 pages of answers signed by the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, or did you come here personally as the minister of diaspora, as Mr. Sredkovic, to say - this is what she wrote about my work, or the Prime Minister, and here's what I specifically have to say about those accusations, about what was being brought to you and your work? Unfortunately, we haven't heard anything concrete. We've heard about everything and everything, you've read to us what kind of positive legal regulations, general acts, read the regulations of the ministry, which are phrases and flossules, but nothing concrete, about the concrete things that we've mentioned in our interpretation, we haven't heard. To be even weirder, these previous two speakers who tried to defend you, to give you support, what would you have isolated from what they said? What would any of the ruling coalition's representatives have to say something out of those 30 minutes in three minutes? Mr. Mikovic also read the government's reply that you previously read. We expected to hear his opinion, what he thought about it. As for Mr. Vesenovic, who had previously spoken, it was about the interpretation, instead of talking about concrete things, that puts a grudge on the SRS parliamentary group, so it's our fault that this was not discussed at the session of the Diaspora Committee, and if this is a completely different institute. What does the Diaspora Committee have to do with the interpretation? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. Interpletion is tolerated because we want certain data on this to be made public. And this is how it's gonna be hard, and as far as sitting down, that would be absolutely impossible. The second remark, Mr. Veselinovic, who is extremely incorrect, asked the question -- why several months ago the session of the Diaspora Committee, whose president is Branimir Djokic, is otherwise a member of the Serbian Radical Party, was not held. Mr. Vesenovic also called for some correct relations, which exist on this committee and showed that he is extremely incorrect, because he himself well knows that Mr. Branimir Djokic has been in rehab for several months, for sick leave, because he had an accident at the pedestrian crossing, he was hit by a car. He had severe injuries and arms and legs. If there had been a will with the ruling coalition to hold a session of the Diaspora Committee and Mr. Kotric, who is the vice-president of that committee, could have scheduled the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. However, there was no such political will. Here we come to another question – how is it possible, Mr. Sredkovic, that none of the SPO MPs today are in the O.R., that none of your colleagues, here, are getting, say – are ashamed, that none of your colleagues had anything or didn't want anything positive to say about you and your work? There are, however, the only MPs here, I don't know, so many members of the SPO are usually active, if the question came, would we recognize them, the only SPO MP I recognized was Mr. Vlajko Senic, but from what I hear, he's no longer a SPO MP. That's your old pal. One of the MPs who spoke also has deep roots in your party. But the joke aside, we must not forget that your party has been politically dead for more than a decade, essentially politically dead, politically dead because in the 2000 elections to this day you were unable to cross the censorship. When you ask questions of responsibility, Mr. Sredkovic, I really don't want to speak to you personally. You can't be responsible for anything for me. Because, look, here's the turnout we laughed at the beginning of the debate, it turns out now Srdjan Sredkovic is the most important problem in Serbia. We all know very well that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62340	National MP, your MP's group has filed a request and an impelation initiative. I ask you not to demean the effort made by that decision free of any parliamentary group. So please make sure you don't disrespect the SRS parliamentary group and talk about the agenda. National MP Suleiman Spaho in an offensive manner, with irony and cynicism addresses the chairman, which is forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If you feel that the interpretation is an institute that serves only to sit in the session of the National Assembly, I will reassure you. One of the most serious institutes that has every... Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: May I continue? No, you can't, since you have to listen to the chairman, because you're violating the Rules of Procedure. What you're trying to say can be said in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and may I remind you once again that your MP group has filed an impelation initiative. So, the importance of Minister Sretkovic's work is your decision, and the Assembly serves to schedule a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You may proceed. You used a total of five minutes of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62341	You're very kind. Of course, I am aware of the fact that the MPs of the SRS have submitted this impelation. I appreciate your goodwill, but there's no need for you to remind me, because I'm one of the signatories of that interpretation. What is also a fact is that this interpretation was submitted only on September 8th, and it is also a fact that on July 26th and 27th, we submitted correspondence concerning Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact and concerning the government's policy towards KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62342	People's MP, interpretation is not the subject of general order. Interpletion is the topic of a session to discuss the government's response. What you're trying to do, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I now warn you not to work. The topic is the government's response to the interpretation, which was on the SRS initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62343	Thank you. As Mr Cvetkovic said, I will start with his explanation, I think I have the right to do so, he said this is evidence and that today's debate is proof that democratic institutions, I will quote it -- democratic institutions in Serbia are increasingly functioning. Just because of what I said, Mr. Cvetkovic, I can't agree with you because if democratic institutions function, then we would discuss the interpretations in the order they were submitted to. It is obvious that this debate serves primarily to focus political attention on other matters. I think that, at least I can say incorrectly that your political party's MPs do not attend here, but this few others who belong to the ruling coalition are also a complete indicator of how important this issue is, above all, to the ruling coalition, and then you can also say how important it is to other citizens of Serbia. You further said the government had given full support to the diaspora ministry. Now, where does the Ministry of Politics come from and since when does the ministry determine politics? I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia determines politics. What policy do you have? Where's she fixed? Although there's one more thing in the explanation here, and that's how you act on your own, how can it be the ministry on your own? It seems that these relations do not know and I have a lot of moral right to ask you – and what policy do you represent? What policy is that towards diaspora? Do you represent the official SPO policy, whose member you are and who has also delegated you to the government as minister, or are you representing the official policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Because the last time we checked those two things out, they were different. We heard it in the previous period of the president of your party who says - we have three goals, the first is the EU, the second is the EU, the third is the EU. We heard your president say that reality should be recognised in Kosovo, which is KIM's independence. Do you implement that policy or implement an official government policy whereby, at least formally, Kosovo and Metohija remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. This is also important because of some practical things, so that we know how you will treat Serbs with KIM, whether they are part of that diaspora and then the real Mr Draskovic interferes with these events, so he tries to disrupt the unity that exists there, saying that someone else is responsible for the incidents at administrative crossings. You, Mr. Lucky, claim the next thing. You say - The Diaspora Act prevents arbitraryness. I ask you the following – projects relating to the "Sevina Boskovic Memorial Tournament", which also refers to "The Eleventh Judo Tropics of the Osmajlic" and the project called "Emory First Victory", that you are a minister in any other ministry, and such cases have been, you know, changed, in one society you are a minister of justice, in another agriculture, it's a practice in the previous few governments, so do you really think that you convince any of us that you were a minister of sport, that these projects, which, as we all know, are in a close relationship, are people who have been functioners of your party, are people who were relatives of your party's function, or are also, I don't know now exactly what functions they've performed, but what we claim is precisely through these projects that they see this arbitraryness. If you were a sports minister, they'd get the money. If you were a culture minister, they'd get the money. If you were the Minister of Agriculture, they'd get the money. This is your party obligation, not to talk about these satire events, you know who's the top satirist in your party, so if he goes on the show, he's on some show, and then that show is very good for connecting the diaspora and the queen, so they get a certain amount of money. If a famous satirist from your party participates in some sort of satire review, it's normal for them to get 300, 400, 500 thousand dinars. So, here you recognize this seal, Mr. Sretkovic, and even those who, I say, are too politically engaged, can read very well and very well what this is essentially about. You didn't tell us anything about it. Why didn't you give any answer to the specific allegations that the SRS MPs put on you in this interpretation? That, of course, didn't occur to you at any point. Now, if we're talking, I need to get back to that government policy. For this policy that you are conducting, Mr. Sredkovic, you cannot be responsible for me, it is responsibility for whoever put you there, because you are, without a desire to offend you, a political anomaly, that a party that can't cross the censorship for more than a decade, that it participates actively in political life, that it has MPs, that it has ministers, and now as we should think, here's Happykovic is responsible for something. You're just a consequence. So, as a result of the sad fact that in Serbia, the parties that win most of the citizens' trust, who win the largest number of seats, which is in this assembly, like in previous several SRS, are not in power, and that the parties that can't even jump with a pole to skip that censorship, are in a position to decide something. And then how do we expect Serbia to be a happy country, Serbia to be a regulated country, to finally get better at this society and finally have some results and on this work with the diaspora? You talked about the normative frameworks, you didn't say anything, you said – here, the goal is to get people back from the diaspora to Serbia. Let's see how many have come, let's see what you've actually done, see how many children in diasporina have learned Serbian language, see what are the concrete benefits of these projects? They're not here. As there is no concrete benefit from these three projects I mentioned, the "First Victory", the 11th judo trophy "Zvonko Osmajlic" and the "Veselin Boskovic Memorial Tournament". These are projects that are funded from various levels, wherever the SPO is in power. They are being financed, unfortunately, from the Belgrade cash register. They're funded by your ministry. So why, if it's sports tournaments, why isn't it funded by the Ministry of Sports? Well, because there's a G17 plus. They're not crazy to fund other people's organizations, NGOs, when they have their own, so they'll finance it. That is the essence of this debate, not that we are talking about whether we have set a quality normative framework. There's no law where you can't find holes and where you can't break regulations unless there's control. There is no control here, and you yourself claim to be independent and independent. Can you go out here and say, "No, we're under Mirko Cvetkovic's control all the time?" Can you convince anyone in Serbia? I really mean, I don't think you can. That is why we are coming to the conclusion that this may be one of the brightest moments, Mr. Sredkovic, in your political career. You should be grateful to the SRS MPs, but you should also be grateful to those of the ruling coalition, who dragged you here and tried this political lull to, I think, be discouraged and the MPs of the SRS and all the others from some future calls, to re-launch the interpretations as one serious institute to get answers to certain questions. We didn't get any answers. You read us 35 minutes, 14 pages, 13 or 14 pages of reasoning, signed by Mirko Cvetkovic. We want an answer to the essential questions. The essential question is why are these tournaments? The documentation that applies to these tournaments should have been brought in, so to speak, here is why we did it. So the same thing is repeated that we in the congregation can discuss everything, but that those issues that are most important at this point cannot be debated. You look at printed media, electronic media, statements by the President of the Republic and Prime Minister – 80% refers to Kim. This morning, Minister Bogdanovic accused the presidents of municipalities from the north of KIM, as they speak at meetings, the other talk about the public, the third talk at meetings with EULEX and KFOR. What if it's not an attempt to make that unity, what kind of one, that exists, violates it? That's what the essential question is right now. What is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM? Are you going to calmly watch what the president of your party proposes, which is to recognize KiM as an independent state? Do you, in your ministry's plans, want to treat KiM's space as space and country from the region tomorrow, since you make that difference compared to the countries in the region and the one in the diaspora? I think the diaspora is all those living outside the queen. Those who are in Montenegro live outside the queen's home. Unfortunately for us, you know that this is the opposite of SRS policy, because we are in favour of establishing a Great Serbia, but unfortunately, I repeat, and those who live in Macedonia, those who live in Hungary and everyone else, they are a diaspora for us. You're here to give us some concrete results. These concrete results, Mr. Markovic is gone. Excuse me, Mr. Lucky. It's no big difference. Since I have to finish, I would ask Mr. Sretkovic to ask these questions that we have asked you to give a concrete answer and that under any circumstances, you are no longer reading this answer to Mirko Cvetkovic, who you and the representatives of the ruling coalition have already read.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62344	Thirteen minutes now and five minutes before warning of respect for the Rules of Procedure. A total of 18 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62345	Mr. Sarovic, I'm really surprised to see you in this part of the hall. I thought you guys had long gone to SNS. When we talk about the party's composition, let me tell you one thing, both when we're big and when we're small, and when we have bigger and when we have less political influence, the SPO is much bigger than any individual. I am here today – Secretary General of the SPO, Ms. Aleksandra Kjetic, member of the Executive Board of the SPO, Mr. Jaksic, Predrag Tojic, member of the Executive Board, Đorđe Prstović, member of the Executive Board, Vukman Krinokuća, member of the Executive Board. I came here with a whole team representing the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, to talk openly and correctly about the issues that have been defined by this interpretation. You are trying to abuse the debate in a way that implies abuse of the KIM situation which is, of course, one of the most difficult and painful issues this government faces. When we talk about the consistency of state policy, our state policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region is the fruit of the consensus of the entire government and of all coalition partners that form executive power at the moment. Unlike previous times and previous years and decades, when you, unfortunately, had the opportunity to influence the creation of that policy, we now have a policy towards the diaspora of Serbs in the region for the first time. We passed the laws, we adopted the strategy, we defined the principles based on which politics is conducted. We are looking for a broader social consensus, that the issue of politics towards the diaspora of Serbs in the region would not depend on the interest of political parties, and that is the essence. I am really glad that within the government and our state summit, awareness is raised about how important Serbs living outside our country's borders are. We will continue to lead this policy consistently, taking into account both the promotion and good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation, of course, and our commitment, to be absolutely committed to respecting international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62346	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62347	Mrs. Komic, first of all, I have to say that you had to react when Mr. Sredkovic just offended me. He said how he... (President: People's MP, you're entitled to a replica. )......................................................................................................... He thought I had long gone to SNS Mrs. Comic, I am an honorable man. [[President: That's why you got the right to replica.]] It means something to me that I took an oath in church. So, please, Mr. Sredkovic, I've been extremely correct to you. If you want that tone to be the other speakers of the SRS, do not really send these unnecessary insults. Second of all, you were talking about how all your SPO associates are as much about how depolitized your ministry is. You've put that van of yours in the Ministry's kit, only Dana stayed home looks like everyone else has come. The third thing, Mr. Sretkovic, at a time when the SRS was in power, Vuk Draskovic was in the Alliance, who was the foreign minister, was it me or was it him? What are you talking about? What responsibility, what wars? Did I say - which hand raises the Turkish banner, we will cut both the hand and the banner - or did Vuk Draskovic say that? And now, Mr. Sretkovic, you're sitting in power with Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin, whose hands you wanted to bang and sit in power with the SPS, and you accused them of being crime inspirers, of being a criminal regime, and of killing SPO officials. So before you say anything, I'm asking you to think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62348	The word has a minister, Srdjan Sredkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62349	This kind of conversation is really beneath each level, and I'm not going to participate in it that way anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62350	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62351	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this impelation institute, which the SRS has acted on today, must have citizens of Serbia know, and your fellow MPs who are not present in the hall, is one of the most legitimate possibilities under the Constitution and by law for a minister to be relieved of that function. As a member of the Constitution himself predicts, following the conduct of this debate, in case a government report is not accepted, in response to the interpretation, which we call on all the MPs, because the report of the government that signed Mirko Cvetkovic, and did not come today to defend you, Mr. Sretkovic, something that does not correspond to the truth, although you have failedly tried to present it by reading, as counterpart Sarovic said, 35 minutes of this. The truth is quite different for you, if you had all the morals and had all the honors, today you would resign, not only because of these allegations and the response from the interpretation, but because of other concrete things that I will bring to you here as an additional argument – why you and why you should be relieved or resign from the post of minister. Mr. Sredkovic, across the diaspora, people who have had the opportunity to meet with you, and it is good that Mrs. Comic has proposed and set this day for interpretation, because you from the trips from the great meridians probably wouldn't have been able to invite you on Friday to come today, on Monday. So, all these people and your whole world, and especially that two Sretkovic-Jaksic, when you go to people in the diaspora, you talk nonsense, they are bitter to you and from day to day they send you an increasing number of prose letters. For what? Because you did something that would only go hand in hand to someone from such a party, Vuk Draskovic, from such an SPO that brings in seeds of discord, as you have brought into the Serbian diaspora. Mr. Sredkovic, this proposal was supposed to include an additional argument, but I will present it now, that you have misused the Assembly of the Serbian Diaspora, which was spoken of by fellow Vesenovic, who is not in the hall now, because there you have found your listeners and instead of the 45 delegates that this assembly needs according to all the rules and the law to have, because of you, because you are engaged in the lottery of Sredkovic, she has 51 members. The assembly and honorary delegates of the Diaspora Assembly, which held in July of the month, appeared, the largest number of these delegates, and said they no longer wanted you as the minister of the diaspora. For what? Because you remain deaf to all their proposals and because they mostly consider the politics of Vuk Draskovic, the SPO, and yours personally to be a disgrace and shame to the congratulations of Serbian patriots and nationalists, as they consider themselves. Mr. Sredkovic, ever since you're the minister of diaspora, in all the places where these honorable people are gathering and in letters that they're sending you, they're asking you to diaspora, instead of politically acting, giving money for tournaments, for political promotion of the SPO, and I really don't know what you have to do with General Draž Mihajlovic and the Equality Movement, except that you're thinking there and that Vuk Draskovic is shouting – come on, we have to fight fascists, Nazis this time and as he said last time – the Ustasha in Serbia. I don't know who he meant, whether himself or Boris Tadic, but indeed, Mr. Sredkovic, you can find yourself called that. These people in the Diaspora Assembly resent you for spending money unintendedly, and it is not only an impelation of the SRS, but also this year, because in secret, they say - rat channels, give your listeners money to disgrace Serbia and the Serb people, and they are there, honorable people, fighting for the truth about Serbs. They have repeatedly asked you to establish an association that will promote the truth about Serbia and Serbs, that the NATO pact villains, led by America and the West, even though they live on all these continents, broke up the former SFRY, that they have trampled the UN Charter, that we have tens of thousands of Serb victims, that the Ustashas as in 1941 have again committed genocide and the pogrom of the Serb people, but you have remained deaf because of your treasonous policies, as you today do when you speak in a funny way and your president about some of the Balvanies in Jarin and Brnjak, on all their proposals. Then what did you do, Mr. Lucky? In this year, you have gone one step further. You delivered several million dinars this year to a certain organisation that has the name "Danilo Kiš" from Slovenia. What kind of organization is that? They are your listeners, unlike any other association that will not listen to you, including people who, unfortunately, are no longer alive, such as Dimitria Markovic, the president of the Association, the congratulatory Serb who lived there, who warned you even when taking over your mandate what is going on and what seeds of discord you sow on the Serbian diaspora. You referred them, this year in April of the month, even though you were only 13 May, you will likely submit a report by breaking through, as in these cases, all legal deadlines after 15 months, referred a certain amount of funds. What does this organization do? The organization Danilo Kish, which you have chosen, is involved in promoting alleged Serb crimes. It's on the Bosniak site. Which, they use as their source, they find alleged sources of so-called. The Bosniaks of Serb beast crimes and count, as did the evildoers in The Hague tribunal, the Serb victims of other peoples, and you remain deaf to what our people have suffered. Mr. Sretkovic, why didn't you answer when the Serbs from the diaspora asked you to establish this association against the evil UN tribunal and what they are doing? Why didn't you answer against Natasa Kandic and Rekom, who is a new silk gajtan, when they started collecting signatures, what they were doing with me in Kragujevac and in all of Serbia, to accuse them further is not enough for the Hague case, but to continue for decades with pressures and blackmails on how Serbs allegedly committed some crimes. Why did you define yourself as just your listeners and give them money in all countries, all over the planet, and you will not listen to the people who are delegates to this congregation spoken of by Mr Janko Vesenović, but in their own way, in the same way as the RTS and other regimeal media reported? What did they do in this paper, through which you allegedly issued calls for your projects, here, "Frankfurt News" to say? How did he want and how did delegate Srdjan Mladenovic of Sweden address you, which represents a large number of Serbs living there? What questions he asked you about the abuses he suspected and all that was happening in the King, for example, and he could not ask you, or, if he asked you, he did not get an answer. All other delegates who are not your listeners and all those associations that don't get money for a political project and a SPO betrayal project, you reject and do whatever you want. They did not say for free that all the money, Mrs. Comic, Mrs. Kolundzija, which you vote in the 481st budget each year and give to Mr. Sredkovic, they call "Lutrija Sredkovic". Mr. Jaksic deceives those same people, because you say you're a strong set of SPOs, and I see you're all in the same van you came here to. Well, that's the kind of party you are. He has been writing these letters to these people for months, such as Mr. Koreni, whose name I will not advertise here and whose letter I received a few months ago, asking the question – are you, Srdjan Sredkovic, normal? So, on one television, as it stands in this letter, at the beginning of the year, this television, and her not to advertise, the journalist asked you with a national frequency -- Mr. Minister, did you hear anywhere that someone was public, or in some other towers, unhappy with your work? You said, "Well, I didn't hear." Here, now you'll hear. Everyone in the diaspora is dissatisfied with your work. Absolutely all of them, except for your listeners. So, Mr. Sretkovic, I repeat again, that you have honor and morality because you do not represent the queen in the right way, because you are engaged in abuses such as these of this year, April of the month, and there will be many more because we get them from the people of the diaspora. You'll have to, one day, and you'll have to answer. Because when we listened to Boris Tadic, who is at the head of this entire organization of yours and who whispers on his shoulders, he said that we should face a sharp fight against crime and that no individual should be protected. Then how are you protected, Mr. Lucky? Who gives you so much money, that every year you go through your political projects and throw it at the Serbs? Because they are most dissatisfied with the fact that the minister of diaspora is a man who will not protect the interests of the troubled Serbian people. Did he drive them and their ancestors out of like, Serbia's Krajina and other big Serbia's cities to go to those continents? Then you say -- well, you all have to go back and invest a lot of money in Serbia. They laugh and say – when this lucky guy calls us, we won't come for a single penny to invest. So who can trust you? You represent some authority. Well, as you are, so is this government that has chosen you and your coalition partners. So, Mr. Sretkovic, you'd better resign. Of course, you won't, because you still have enough money left in the budget for this year to crunch, as you have given this company Danilo Kish, as you are lurking on all sides, everywhere, and this information is coming to us and we will continue to do so during this debate, but also through the use of all the funds and opportunities in the public to talk about your numerous abuses, and the political aspect of your actions is well known to the citizens of Serbia and to your policy, which your party and your president is implementing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62352	Twelve minutes used by the MP's group. The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62353	Dear People's MPs, although you have said to me that I am not normal, you are truly wonderful and likable to me even when you are telling the naked lies as you have now done, but I don't think that's the way to talk in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62354	National MP Natasa Jovanovic is looking for a replica. The minister complemented, so that the replica on the compliment – difficult. Anyway, you don't have the right to a replica. National MP Janko Veselinovic is entitled to a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62355	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers, the distinguished Miss Jovanovic looked back on the work of the Diaspora Assembly. I believe that she evaluated the work of that congregation in a way that demeaned the people sitting in that congregation, who were certified by the organizations in those countries, responsible for that. I will agree with my colleague Jovanovic that everyone in that assembly may not think the same and that they may not share the same values, but that is normal for one assembly, it is normal to have different political views and that they may either sympathise or not sympathise one or another political option. Maybe it's in the congregation. It believes that it should not be in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region, as in this assembly on this issue, I agree with you that Serbs have had bitter history and that, for economic reasons, they had to leave their centuries-old hearths. This assembly is legal, its representatives are legal, they choose and change according to a certain procedure, their views should be respected and, I believe, co-operate with everyone, and those who are the same political point of view and those who are not. (President: Two minutes. In that sense, I believe that we must not underestimate the Assembly or its representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62356	National MP Natasa Jovanovic is looking for a right to replication. You have no basis for replication. National MP Janko Veselinovic explained his position on the Assembly. There's no basis for replication. The People's Parliament of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, followed by the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62357	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public, I would like to remind you that the MPs of the SRS have submitted three interpretations. One refers to the response and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for its treasonous policy towards KIM. The second relates to the response and responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia for also treasonous action and aims to bring Serbia closer to the criminal NATO pact. The third interpretation, which we are talking about today, concerns issues of the legality of work, business and responsibility of Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjana Sredkovic. We have not asked you, Mr. Minister, to read to us in response to our interpretation what we have already received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in response. I'll also comment on some parts of the government's response, which made it clear that we're right to put up with this interpretation. We asked you, Mr. Sretkovic, to explain to us how you, where you are and whose name you spent 30,300,000,00 dinars. So very specific. Don't tell us political stories, because as a minister from there you have no right, we have. Don't read to us what the Regulation says, we know it's in Article 2. The Regulation on the coming conditions and the procedure for the grant of funds to co-finance projects, provided that the funding for co-financing can be granted to diaspora organisations, i.e. Serb organisations in the region, as well as organisations based in the Republic of Serbia, based on their proposed project, aimed at using, learning, preserving and caring Serbian and Cyrillic letters, preserving and caring for Serbian cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identities, improving the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Serbs in the region. We ask the answer to the question – why did you not comply with this Regulation and with Article 2 of this Regulation? We ask the answer to the question, Mr. Sredkovic, how did you spend the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget as if it were your grandfather's? Or, if they were yours, you'd probably be more concerned about that money than you were about the money of Serbian citizens. You've been boasting yourself a little before you've gathered the SPO party officials around you. It's a shame. There are six of you, three other MPs who didn't come here today to stand behind you and you're all on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and you're all at the expense of Serbian citizens. And that's little to you, but you still spend and abuse money against the regulations and against the law. Mr. Sretkovic, we claim, and we ask the Government and your argument, that the funds have been allocated to the applicants for projects that are not registered for activity whose objective is set out in this Article 2. The regulations that I quoted, therefore, are not registered and this refers specifically to: the decision of 14 June 2010, where you gave 450 000 dinars without the project of the applicant of the Football Club Obilić from Herceg Novi. What does the Obelić Football Club in Herceg Novi have to do with what is foreseen for what these funds should be spent on? Imagine, 450,000 dinars. The decision of 14 June 2010 also, Project 33, with the name – Ravnogorska first victory, totaling 100,000 dinars. Mr. Sredkovic, you haven't answered the question before – what does SPO have to do with the right movement and Draž Mihajlovic? If Draža Mihajlovic were alive, Vuk Draskovic would have sent him to The Hague to protect himself. And you're hiding behind General Draža Mihajlovic. The only question is who are you on the board of directors of this Ravnogorski movement and who you have actually given you 100,000 dinars in particular. We're looking for an answer to that question. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal Look at the wonders, the name of the project: "11 judo trophy Zvonko Osmajlic" – 150 thousand dinars. What does Judo Club Zvonko Osmajlic have to do with the diaspora and the funds to be allocated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? This is first-class crime, Mr. Sretkovic. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Project title: "11th Veselin Boskovic Memorial Tournament", Shah Sports Society "Veselin Boskovic" totalling 100,000 dinars. Can you explain to us, Mr. Sretkovic, what does the Shah Club "Veselin Boskovic" have to do with the diaspora and the money for the diaspora? You have distributed 12 million and 200 thousand dinars without competition and the opposite procedure provided for by the Budgetary System Act and the Close Conditions Regulation and the grant procedure for co-financing of projects. We expect, Mr. Sredkovic, that you will give four answers specifically to these four questions. We have not submitted this interpretation to order, but because we have concrete reasons and because we have concrete information about the abuse of your function, about the abuse of funds coming into the budget from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Says the Government in response – The Ministry of Faith and Diaspora is independent in doing its jobs. This is amazing. You are part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we also see you as Srdjana Sredkovic and as part of the regime and this kind of response of the government actually speaks of how inserious the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, as far as possible, and we will also have opportunities in the following interpretations not only in the ones we have submitted but also in those we are going to submit, to first and foremost in Serbia's citizens, to learn about the destructive and pestilence and treasonous policies of the Boris Tadic regime, which is characterized in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the government said that the working group for the control of the report on 17 March 2011 held a meeting and found that a total of 25 project applicants, I am talking about your projects, fulfilled the contract for the project, one applicant partially met the contract of the project and 13 project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled the contract of the intended obligations, i.e. we read it – did not meet the terms of the contract. On 29 March 2011, project applicants who failed to submit a report on the implementation of the projects, or who submitted a partial report, were invited and informed that they were obliged to submit a report on the implementation of the projects or to supplement the reports already submitted, and these applicants were contacted and telephoned to submit or supplement the project implementation reports. Since the government hasn't written what it's specifically about, we're asking you, Mr. Minister, to answer these questions immediately after my debate. The task force also said in response, on 22 September 2011, it held a meeting and found that a total of 30 project applicants met the contract of the intended obligation, five applicants partially met and four project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled the contract of the project's intended commitments. What are nine project applicants, or project contractors, and who are these organizations? Who are these people? These are some people, some of your officials you obviously share with a hat and a hand. You'll answer, I suppose, and you'll tell us exactly what's going on. The government says, "The applicants who have not submitted an orderly report will receive a warning before the suit as the last means of warning." It is obvious that you are a great fit for the government of the Republic of Serbia, because you all work in the same way, none of you care about the citizens of Serbia, nor about the interests of the Republic of Serbia, especially your president who is also president yesterday, who knows which time, said that KIM are not part of the Republic of Serbia and is really asking what are you doing in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Sretkovic, what you did and what we specifically stated in our interpretation are crimes. This is why you have to answer and go to jail. We are not and will not be satisfied, just smile, Mr. Sretkovic, no one else's burn until dawn, and not just you, a large number of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, will end up in prison for criminal acts, for robbing Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62358	It was used 11 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62359	I really appreciate your consistency, I mean the SRS, even when you're consistent with something that's wrong. These kind of accusations that are flat-rate, which are incorrect, which are false, we've been listening for 20 years and I don't think that's a good political way of working in the 21st century. I would like you, as a party, to accept one civilized, democratic and correct means of communication, exchange of arguments, and even when we disagree on certain topics. I know very well from private talks with many members and officials of the SRS that even you give credit for the progress made in the policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region, and you as a party who likes to say to yourself that it is national, that it takes care of national and state-owned interests, would be correct if you say so publicly. You know very well that in the last three years this plan has been done more than ever before. You keep asking the same question. I can answer one hundred times the same question, it's no problem, here, one more time I'm going to point out. Therefore, after the opening of the proceedings, the processors are graduates, civil servants working in public administration bodies of 10, 20 or 30 years and have nothing to do with any party belongings, their signature confirms which applications are timely, permitted, complete and orderly or rejected. So it is the graduate lawyers who decide which of the projects that are registered in the competition meet the legal requirements. So, only those projects that are in accordance with the law become the subject of a working group decision, which makes up the College of the Ministry of Diaspora, so appointed persons, who then ultimately propose a proposal for a decision to me as a minister. I wanted, from the first moment I became a minister, which is why I proposed a law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, to define very clear, transparent and public procedures for the assignment of these, unfortunately, rather modest funds. When contracts are signed, a working group is formed, again, alongside the ministry's colleges, graduates who have been civil servants for the last 10, 20 or 30 years, have nothing to do with any political party and they analyse, therefore, whether the parties, the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora, have fulfilled all their obligations to the state. So, in that sense, I must say that I am proud that in these three years we have managed to introduce clear, precise and public procedures that did not exist before. Once again, I stress, therefore, it is absolutely clear that absolutely all the projects that have been co-financed that such a decision has been made in accordance with the law and that is something for me, as a man who deals with politics, absolutely implies and never will be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62360	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, right on the line. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Sretkovic injured the dignity of the National Assembly when he said that the SRS MPs were, as he said, taking a flat-rate charge at his expense and at the expense of his ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62362	People's MP, you can only direct a breach of the Rules of Procedure to the conduct of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62363	It's okay, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62364	The letter had the right to reply anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62365	All right, all right. Thank you for the intervention. So I think you had to draw Mr. Sredkovic's attention to the next fact that the MPs of the SRS don't talk casually. Our proposal, or our interpretation, Mr. Sretkovic, has a 15-page explanation. And if no one talks casually in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they are MPs of the SRS. What we expect from you and here you fail to answer our question for three hours – what essential links Zvonko Osmajlic and Veselin Boskovic have with Serbs in the region and in the diaspora. So you fail to answer that question. As a coward, you are hiding behind some graduate lawyers, now the graduates of the ministry are guilty that you have funded a project called Veselin Boskovic and Zvonko Osmajlic, and we have proposed, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, that is to say, by reason of the impelation, the signature of Mr Srdjan Sredkovic to the decision on the allocation of those funds. Are you telling us you don't know what you're signing? That they're going after you in the ministry that you sign, and you don't even know what you're signing. So, pay attention, Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Mr. Minister, that SRS MPs speak very well and ask for an answer to this essential question – what do deceased SPO officials have to do with the Serbs in the diaspora.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62366	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, you'll get your word. Just to give an explanation to the MP that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and that Minister Srdjan Srekovic treated himself during the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with his powers. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't have a president, I can't have a president, I can't have him judging, It is our first time, but we will already put it as a practice, when MPs blame it, or ask the minister for an answer, and the minister has the right to defend himself. It is upside down to believe that the minister has no right to defend himself, but to the MPs of the opposition or the ruling majority he has only to remain silent and to say – you are all right. The dialogue exists for everyone to make their arguments and ultimately decide who is right, whether the government that gave its answer or the parliamentary group that submitted the initiative for impelation. So, MP Verica Radeta would have the right to reply, of course because it serves, and now has Minister Srdjan Sretkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62367	Mr. Martinovic, the people you mentioned did not die, they were killed. They were killed by the regime in which you participated and it would be better and more moral to keep your mouth shut and not to mention it. It's ugly, it's immoral, and I will no longer participate in this kind of debate with you. It's very immoral, and I hope you're at least a little embarrassed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62368	I'm asking you all to stay together in the context of what we do together, and this is a debate about the government's response. Right on the line, two minutes, People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62369	When a timely auditor submitted a report and found some shortcomings in the work of some ministries, then the Prime Minister blamed the chiefs for it. Today, Mr. Sretkovic, blames the ministry's lawyers, so fire the lawyers if they can't work. You're saying that we're not, that we don't know that we live in some democratic and civilized society, so let's just tell us in a nice, democratic and civilized way how you spent thirty million and three hundred thousand dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Tell us, what does Zvonko Osmajlic, Veselin Boskovic, FK Obilić from Herceg Novi, Kravska Gorica's first victory have to do with the diaspora? And how come you spend 12 million and two hundred thousand dinars without a competition? Can you explain this procedure to us? You tried to explain to us how this goes according to procedure. We know how the procedure goes, Mr. Sretkovic, and you will now be as an offended young woman, you will not participate further in this debate and shortly before without the remarks of the chairman, you are the most harshly insulting MPs, and you cannot prevent us, Mr. Sretkovic, from asking. So, the miracle trophy Zvonko Osmajlic, what are the merits of Tink Osmajlic in general for the state, let alone for the diaspora? What are the merits of Veselin Boskovic for both the state and the diaspora? Why don't you sell or rent all the apartments that are left for Veselin Boskovic and finance this chess tournament of his? Whose shame is that? The one who draws attention to it or the one who took part in it? And you let go of that story, Mr. Sredkovic, clear it up with some other people, it has nothing to do with the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62370	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62371	Mrs. Comic, how much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62372	Twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62373	Mrs. Comic, I'd like to draw your attention now that you may have been able to intervene at the beginning, they've probably confused you, too. When you look at this list of speakers, Janko Veselinovic, Srdjan Mikovic, are for impelation, they will vote for impelation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62374	People's MP, I refer you to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the agenda theme is, the Government's response to the interpretation submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. So I ask you that in the context of this debate we can use all the arguments except for the truth about the Rules of Procedure that are in force. Therefore, the Interpletion Initiative comes from a parliamentary group, this initiative is being considered on the committee responsible and the Government is giving an answer to that impediment initiative, and MPs are being made known about the government's response. If most MPs have responded to the government, this means that those who have launched the impelation initiative have made a poor assessment, or have not presented enough arguments, or is it the minister, or the whole government that deserves not to be called off and not to be further in the next 30 days of the interpretation topic. I ask you on the subject, about the response to the subject of the agenda, but the truth about the business provisions, please refrain, that is the reason for the criminal provisions under that same Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62375	We're not going to get punished right away, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62376	So we want every time someone breaks the rules. No rules of violation, no punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62377	Okay. I'm very glad I heard your answer and now I can move on with this item on the agenda. At first, I was really worried about whether maybe the new power since October 5th was not satisfied with what happened to three and a half thousand apartments in Belgrade. There was a conclusion, some abuse, I don't know what the outcome is, what happened in the end. I am also very glad that Rasim Ljajic still has hands. He hasn't been cut off by his hands or Suly's. Thank God, they're alive and they're healthy. Now I see that Jugovic and Meso are like two identicals here working together very well, and that's all to be commended for. That's what I'm saying because of my promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62378	People's MP, you're talking about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62379	It's all about this, Mrs. Comic, the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62380	It is certainly not the topic of the agenda, the topic of the agenda is the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62381	Excuse me, please, there's a matter of political consistency here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62382	People's MP, in the interpretation, set up a request for an examination of political consistency. Since, as a parliamentary group, you have made a request or an initiative for interpretation with a clearly defined and established, according to your assessment, violations of the law by the minister, then the government's response is within the scope of this topic. For the last time, please, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62383	I'm glad I finally cleared things up. Now it is clear to all of us that the MPs of the majority will, until the last drop of blood, defend Mr. Sretkovic. That's what I wanted to do. I've done it very effectively. I can move on now. Now we have a co-financing situation. Sufunding means that someone is reporting to the competition, that there is documentation and that evidence that there are two dinars, two million dinars, so he lacks something very little to complete the project, and because of that little money he lacks, he responds to the competition. Now, in order for him to even consider using these funds to realise his grand project, both Serbs in the region and Serbs as diaspora around the world, he must say his goal is to achieve the following with his money and money from the ministry. First - use, learning, preserving and fostering Serbian and Cyrillic letters, we will continue. I don't get it now, 11. Judo trophy Zvonko Osmajić, center of martial sports. Is that a hidden Cyrillic name? Is this judo in Cyrillic? Let's move on – the preservation and care of Serbian, cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity. Is that judo in the coats? The screams are all on Serbian - ohh. What's this about? The same is true for chess tournament, the Veselin Boskovic Memorial chess tournament, etc. So they have the funds, it only takes another 100 grand to end it. Where are the participants? Where's the Serbian language, cultural tradition? Chess is a cultural sports tradition and cultural, planetary, not just Serbian. It's not a specificity. I understand you've printed brochures, books, DVDs, so you've been nice to our kids abroad through some organization. I would understand that through these two meetings you advertised as a ministry, as it is now, I called you correctly when you formed the government, after you joined the diaspora and religion, which means only Serbs abroad can be baptized. What's going on in Serbia? Here you have shown that they are only left to be baptized and marveled and to believe in God that he can save him after what you do. So as soon as he bears the name Zvonko Osmajic, he bears the name Veselin Boskovic, of course, that part of the pro-European government under the control of the SPO, some of the funds from the joint cake must be transferred there. It's obvious you couldn't make it. Some others have managed to build funds, so Victoria's group has to pay, so this one has to pay, so the foreign governments have to pay. You've got to figure it out yourself. You say radicals are wrong, but what did you write in this response? This is the ministry's response, Mirko only stamped and signed. Under the I – competition for co-financing of projects, so that I do not read until the end, for the preservation of the country's and the Serbs' ties in the region, this is where you found 22 September 2011 for the 2010 budget, and our interpretation was submitted on 8 September 2011. So, as soon as you've heard about the impelation, you're immediately in control, since you're obliged to control whether these funds are being used on purpose. What did you say? Four project applicants failed to provide evidence that they had fulfilled their obligations under the contract. As far as the second part is concerned, it's for the entire diaspora, that's where you made the 21st commission, so you said, and there are four projects that haven't been proven. What are you going to do? You say to the applicants who have not delivered the orderly report, a warning will be sent before the suit as the final means of warning. That's what you remembered when the radicals submitted the impelation. Why did you think of that? Because he texted you "land without hearing to distract." On July of this year, you had a big meeting with the diaspora Assembly. You threw out journalists so journalists wouldn't report what the situation is and what the diaspora about the diaspora and religion ministry says. Then you go with one little story, but no mention of four specific examples. I have to tell you, these four are the most obvious. We've been tracking for years who's been taking funds from the diaspora not only when you've taken that resor, since before. Those NGOs fighting for Serbian rights in Croatia, as far as they get, what they do and have an obligation during the election campaign to appear and show in a picture that all Serbs in Croatia support pro-European parties in Serbia. Well, you yourself wrote in your answer that there is something illegal. This is certainly a political topic – impelation. If they're going to have any legal repercussions, that's another question. You said in response, and you didn't answer what those 12 million past the competition. You expect the DRI won't go over it, we'll skip something, etc. I understand your position. In this distribution of a cake called power, you got quite little, but problematicly, it is defended by Miković, Janko Veseinović, the punch feather of Čotric was not allowed on the line. The one that keeps jumping, he didn't want to jump either. Epic Jugovic escaped.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62384	People's MP, I beg you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and a little more polite about fellow Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62385	I'm most politely expressing myself, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62386	If you spoke politely, I wouldn't intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62387	I'm always in the O.R. when I talk. I never vote from Bodrum, don't forget that, from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, I never vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62388	People's MPs have been warned you're being treated, not voting. I do not mention that you never vote in the Assembly, but that you are obliged to act as the Rules of Procedure says with other fellow Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62389	Of course. So, let's get some things straight. This is a political question. I know there are blank accounts, but there's also glue that binds. Your impatience with the SPS is well known, but it's a question of what binds you now. What's your connection? It is also known that there is a need for someone to make amends, as Vuk Draskovic of the SPS has changed one mayor at a time. What kind of game is that? What's glue here now, in the political sense of words? You're investigating the pro-European and found pathway. You have the same boss and you have to defend the chess club and the judo club, even though it's clear to the sparrows that it's not very regular. But, you know that old saying-- the nail nail doesn't take out the eye. Thank you for your patience, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62390	Twelve minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Milorad Buha. The total time is available for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62391	Ladies and gentlemen, I will count several vital issues for the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, whose solution, in my opinion, Mr. Sretkovic did not work as much as he could and as much as he had to. Simply, we in the SRS believe that the 30 million funds he spent on these things we heard about were much more useful to use to point out unresolved life problems concerning the position of the Serb people in BiH and Croatia. Basically, the most important issue Minister Sretkovic was supposed to be dealing with in his term is the return of the exiled Serb population to Croatia. I remind you that at the time of the Zagreb war and other Croatian cities, 250,000 Serbs were expelled, and some 300,000 Serbian people from Republika Srpska. So far in Croatia, 16 years after the war, they have been returned with a letter and a number of 45 thousand. I think that's the problem you're neglecting. Croatian politics, the Croatian state is preventing its policy from returning to the Serbian population. It's a policy of intimidation that constantly comes down to sudden, but also constant arrests, false charges and mounted court proceedings. I recall that famous information about the trial of Svetozar Karan from Korenica, who was sentenced to 14 years in prison for crimes that, I quote, he and his ancestors together with the Ottomans over the Croatian people, committed 500 years ago. Also, I point to the fact that Croatia has launched 72,000 investigative procedures against members of the Serb people. The next procedure you should be dealing with is that more than two thousand Krajina Serbs are in absentia, mounted trials sentenced to years of prison sentences. The next, perhaps now and most importantly, is that Serbs who have returned to Croatia cannot find a job, especially cannot be employed in public services. The next issue is the issue of freedom of expression of Serbs in Croatia. They do not have full freedom of expression when it comes to national and religious membership. You know that there have already been several cases that Serbs in Croatia have been violently baptized, as you know about the fact that you have a number of schools in Croatia where Serbian children, Orthodox children are forced to listen to Roman Catholic religion. The next thing is the fact that Serbs in Croatia have no right to bury their dead. I remind you that more than 7,000 Serbs from Krajina and other parts of Croatia died in the war in Croatia. So far, it has not been buried in Orthodox customs, in cemeterys, by their families, 1,800 of these unfortunate. Croatian Army, Croatian police hide mass graves of killed Serbs. On the other hand, there are 600 groups and individual graves known to local Serbian authorities in Croatia and known families, but Croatia is preventing the exhumation of these tombs. Next, Croatia refuses to return kidnapped property to Serbs. It is estimated that about 30 billion euros worth of property was seized from Serbs in Croatia. Besides, it's 40,000 apartments. You know the problem of taking away the household rights of people who have lived and worked in Croatia. Six hundred thousand acres of land, of which 320,000 acres of oracica, 120 thousand hectares of forest, as many as 400,000 tractors and other agricultural connections, 10,000 vineyards with more than a million chocolate vines and more than 900 thousand cattle, official data of 220 thousand cattle, 20,000 horses, 260 thousand pigs, 280 thousand sheep, 100,000 goats and 120 thousand bees. The same situation, the same target, is the same distance when it comes to the position of the Serb people in BiH. I remind you that ethnic cleansing was carried out in central Bosnia, during which more than 500,000 Serb people were expelled from the area. It's been 16 years since the war. In BiH, however, less than 10,000 Serbs have returned to central Bosnia by now. I didn't hear you as the minister in charge of the issue once mention that question, mention that persecution, in public, in an interview, in a newspaper, in a political performance, and let alone put it in a political dialogue with representatives of the authorities in Sarajevo. You have 580 pure Serbian villages and villages in BiH that are completely dead. During the war, Muslims killed or exiled the population. After the war, they prevented the return of the exiled population. You have the following official data, data from Serbian associations, in at least 70 Serb settlements in the Federation, there are 15,000 people, among them two thousand children. These villages, these settlements in the 21st century, still don't have electricity. It says – of 527 plus 60 Serb settlements that are ethnically cleaned, 71 are located in the Municipality of Ravna, on Ozren 32, near Bugojna and Gornji Vakufa 42, and there are no more 57 Serb villages from Sarajevo to Zenica. When it comes to the return of the Serb population to urban areas, I will only provide a few data. Of the 2,000 pre-war residents in Kupres, eight returned, two died, in Tomislavgrad 11, you no longer have any Serb in Caplja, 27 of them in Key, in Bihac of 16 thousand Serbs returned 415. Of the 24 thousand Serbs in the Sanski Most, there are now 2,700. The largest ethnic cleansing was carried out in the BiH capital, Sarajevo, out of the pre-war 160,000 Serbs, now live in the BiH capital seven thousand. They do not have the right to work, they do not have the right to national and cultural expression, and the idea is to get a job in public enterprises, public services or to perform some prominent political function. In the end, just to remind myself of the problem of Serbs in Slovenia. I remind you that the government in Ljubljana has made a decision since 1991 and 1992 that has left more than 10,000 Serbs who have left Serbian citizens without citizenship. These people were deprived of citizenship. For 20 years, these people have been living in Slovenia as third-class citizens, practically unable to solve the most fundamental existential problems because they are people who are outside the law. Instead of solving these problems, instead of spending these 30 million on solving these problems, on a campaign that would point to the world's public's problem, you use funds to finance judo tournaments, which is held in Serbia and which no representative of the Serbian people from the diaspora participates. You finance literary dinners held in Serbia and where all participants are Serbia. You finance a chess tournament, which is held in Serbia and you finance a football club in Herceg Novi. This really has nothing to do with the authorities of the Diaspora Ministry, with concern for the preservation of Serbian identity, Serbian letter, Serbian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62392	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad fleas. It's at your disposal for seven minutes. After him, Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic and he is the last on the list of speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62393	In his address to this assembly, the minister said there was no argument for this interpretation. I have to point to the legal aspect of the interpretation and say that there is a constitutional foothold, and we have clearly stated what we are attacking with this interpretation. So the legality of the work and we say - the provisions of the Ministry Act have been violated. The minister signed something that his professional services had prepared for him. Abuse by professional services has been committed, and thus also by the minister, as funds for four specifically mentioned institutions have been allocated. You clearly said and it stands in response to the government, you wrote this response to the government. You've made it clear what the co-financing is all about. What you've funded is not the essence of funding, it's your party's political volunteerism. Keep going. It is evident from the government's reply that you are violating the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, which says and which obliges you to supervise the users of the funds. Not only you, but every direct and indirect user must take care of the purpose of spending. You as a direct user, you who are signatories and decisions, you who are signatories and contracts, must use the dedicated use of these funds - with direct insight, control of spending and the complete documentation that must be available to you. You don't do that. You said it here directly and in one case at the first decision, and in another case. In the first case, it passed, it has been a decision since 14 June 2010. you only say on 22 September 2011 that four project applicants have not delivered evidence etc. Why not after 15 months? Why aren't they sued? When will she be sued? You mentioned only one association you sued. What about the others? Legal deadline – 30 days. So it says in the law, 30 days after the end of the activity, the user of the funds he received, spent a certain purpose, must file a report. That's appropriate and normal. But it's not normal for you. You weren't in control and you weren't in control. Why? Because the citizens' associations are politically favored by your party. You shared it on that basis, and why control it? That's why this impelation is. That is why we say that the minister is responsible and that the minister must bear responsibility. We have made it clear that this is an abuse of official position, because you have allowed these associations of citizens to make a profit. It's a qualification of that crime. You must answer as well as those who participated in the whole process. Papers, documentation and the overall process of document control, means of placement, use of funds and report, it is controlled by the professional services of the ministry. You ministers are responsible for all this. Therefore, it is nothing controversial. You do not deny any argument that we have written about abuse of official position. This clearly violates the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Who in this country is allowed to do that? Nobody. You're the only one who can. This power can and not only in this case, but thousands of cases are done like this. This is a classic example of how this government works. No responsibility. Instead of getting it from the minister when he signed, when he saw what you were doing, he was supposed to apply at the moment to relieve the duties of the minister of religion and diaspora. It's his constitutional obligation. He must blindly enforce the law. He is the first to lead the executive and must obey the law. He's here signing something that looks like, what's written here, I'd say it's one political nomination for you as minister in the next, and I'd even say by the praises he made, that it's a nomination for Nobel. I wouldn't be ashamed if I were you, if the Prime Minister were to characterise me like this with praises, etc., after so many perceived abuses on his part and on your part, and everything that happens in practice. Look, your finding here and counting your associates and pointing out that they're all from one political party, is talking about your hypocrisy, both you and the government. The same government has proposed dozens of laws to this parliament, which it advocates, for professionalisation, for departementisation, for the arrival of young, professional, qualitative etc. Why aren't you applying that? Why aren't you young professional personnel, these are just political personnel who are with you and share your destiny and the fate of your ministry and that's nakarad. It's funny, and it's pathetic. The worst part is that you're talking about who's who in one political party. We didn't talk and point to it. We targeted those qualifications we found. We've found that you've misused your official position, you've purposelessly spent your resources, you don't control your spending, etc. You have violated the provisions of one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth laws, etc., clearly and concisely. Once again, I call upon the representatives of the government for moral reasons, for we have gathered all that was to be gathered. This is the same authority that should also determine that it corrects you and your ministry and all other ministries and says - this is not how it should be done. You can't do this on a political basis. We're not doing it either, and neither are you, but they're doing it. Now, I call upon the representatives of the authorities who will vote on this matter, on their morale, and on honor and honor, to respect what we have stated here and to make it clear exactly as proposed, in accordance with honor and frequentity, and to vote so. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62394	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. He's the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62395	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, dear friends and assembly from the SPO, comes the time when a man finds himself in front of a dark and impenetrable gap, which for years slowly and unconsciously, he digs himself. He can't go ahead. There's nowhere to go. The words are gone. Tears dry. He comes to cry, and he calls out to whom. He doesn't even remember his name. When a man sees that there is only one true suffering on earth, it is the torment of an unclean conscience. Mr. Sretkovic, I thought that in this request to interpret your political reasons, the opposition's desire to replace a minister. I thought there was a desire here for voters to show themselves – here we are, too. We found a victim to target all our attacks. They are bothered by the name of Veselin Boskovic and Zvonko Osmajlic, the mention of the name Obilić in Herceg Novi and, in fact, I hear the victims of a restless conscience. Because this Zvonko Osmajlic and this Veselin Boskovic suffered in 1999, when those looking for your shift were in power. That same year, in 1999, the NATO Pact marched on our KIM. You see, Mr. Sretkovic, when someone looks at the report and reads that the money has been given to associations that preserve the memory of Veselin Boskovic and Zvonko Osmajlic, wakes up with this restless conscience because they need to sleep at night, and then, when you have a restless conscience, they know in their sleep that Osmajlic comes and asks – does he have Kosovo? Lazar comes in, and he asks, "Is the White Church self-sufficient, where I have honored the army?" And Stefan Decansky comes in, and all of them. You know, I've read the explanation for the interpretation, and I've seen the experience say the past work. This is not the first interpretation and whose request is being considered in this high House but thanks to the efforts of the people who have suffered for the democracy and arrangement of this society, as a democratic society, that interpretation is possible. It would not have been possible if it had not been for people like Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic, it would not have been possible for these demands if it hadn't been for people such as Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic, Vuk Draskovic, friends and SPO parliamentarians, but you know, never when MPs discussed in this high House the requests for the removal of some MPs, always this debate went in two directions. Once the opposition asked for the minister's shift, Pasic wanted to change most times and submitted the most requests for interpretation when it comes to Pasic. The MPs used to make arguments to support their claims, and he used to speak from these arguments of past work. See what the experience says, see what the past work says. Abuse of official position. So he says -- unintended spending of funds, the allocation of funds to citizens' associations that do not meet the conditions and do not carry out surveillance. Do I need to remind you how money was once spent on printing party leader books? Am I supposed to be talking about hiring a magistrate now? You don't have to. About the opposition, about those who are looking for your shift, they've all said the best possible way to vote. I want to tell you that I've been to diaspora lots of times. The applause that you, Mr. Sredkovic, got me and the day I heard today, I never heard such applause, rarely when a representative of the government from the former authorities spoke to people from the diaspora. We have a committee that could be involved in your work. Unfortunately, some of them don't trust their board president, so they're moving this discussion from the board to the assembly benches, but I actually think it's the desire of the applicant of this impel to abolish your ministry, because how to be a calm conscience to someone who offered Serbs in the region the limits on the Karlobag line, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica, and then turned his back on them. You remember the columns of tanks they covered with flowers, and you remember maybe a column of refugees that they covered with silence. Today it's the Serbs in the diaspora. Today, those Serbs living in London, New York, the Netherlands, France, Germany, are unsuitable Serbs for them, because in parliamentary elections they do not vote for them and they are consecrated and punished by wanting to abolish your ministry. I understand that argument with my own people, but I don't justify it. It is also important to love those people who do not vote for you, to love all those people who have remained in dispersion because of the wrong policy, to love those people who live on KIM, and who have lived there the way they have lived since 1999, when some people have been in power, but they do not need to push those people into the coverage of the Ministry of Diaspora. There's gonna be someone to take care of them in a serious, thoughtful way. Jarinje and Brnjak would make some in Jasita Jinis, but you know, your ministry is doing a great job. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the government says in response to the interpretation. Of course, I also have to respond to a few comments that we have dragged you from the ruling majority to the post of minister. We didn't drag anyone, nor did we bring anyone. All of us, where we are, have been brought by the people. I will again quote the Duke of Živojin Mišic, the same one who marched on Kosovo in 1912 with his regiments and won Obilić's gold medal for courage, and now the name of Obilić bothers some. This Duke Zivojin Mišic used to say: I have denied from the people, I must obey his will and serve him until the last breath. You must obey the will of the voters and our people in the diaspora, to take care of them. There's four million people out there. Not everyone lives in The Hague. Many live in other, nicer, happier places, but some have left this country because of those who sit in The Hague today. They had to leave this country to keep their heads alive. When we talk about the range of SCI and DS and SPO relations, is there anything else I need to say when we hear all these insults that are addressed to you and the party you belong to? When I stand under the cross of a century-old oak, I don't notice the tiny weeds below, but that oak for a hundred years protects the tiny weeds, and when the storm winds come, it protects him from being blown by the wind. When we talk about the effects of SPO and Vuk Draskovic, time will be the best judge. Some people you can't see in the time you live in, especially if they're big. It's like an exhibition of pictures. To see that little picture, you need to get close. To see a big picture, you have to move away from it, to time to show its size. Those tiny little people, all over the place, ready to push others onto the altar, you can always see them. As I said, I will finish with this: the oak with its shade and its size protects that tiny weed. Only in Serbia, unfortunately, the weeds watered themselves with blood and tears for a time, and he did not cry at widows, at the cry of orphans, but, you know, the people best arranged the field of weeds. When the elections come, you take the hair, you cut yourself, you pass the lawn mower, and then the weeds look like the best lawn ever. I'm sure your ministry is arranged according to what the Committee of Government says. I'm absolutely sure and confident you're doing a good job. Continue to preserve the memory and splendor of Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic, of all the people who have suffered in this country so that we in the democratic atmosphere can discuss the opposition's demands in a civilized manner. You do your job as best you know, and I won't be your judge. Less will be the judge of those who seek your shift. All of us will be judged exclusively by voters and only by time, and I am waiting for calm consciences, because I know that you and I in the ruling majority have a moral law on us and the starry skies of free Serbia above us. In that starry sky, I slowly see that European lighthouse and European stars. We're going to show those sights to those who are behind your shift, because we're not going to leave them down there, and they're going to join us in the better and orderly society that we're all making together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62396	Eleven minutes used by the MP's group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it was removed from Belgrade mayor's post in 1997, late Zoran Djindjic said they had replaced him, quoting his words "false Chetniks and false partisans". What my distinguished predecessor Srdjan Milivojevic said really associated me with those words, and the big question is what would Zoran Djindjic say now that he could listen to what DS MPs say? Before I say anything about impelation, the interpellation contained, or the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the interpretation, allow me to step up with the minister, and with colleagues from the ruling coalition who tried in an unknowing way to defend him. Mr. Janko Veselinovic says Serbia's relationship with Serbs in the diaspora is not a party issue and I agree with it, and then Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic points to all those present from his ministry and says – this is the vice-president of the SPO, this is the secretary-general, this is a member of the executive board, etc. Tell us, Mr. Sretkovic, is the relation to Serbs in the diaspora a party issue or not a party issue? If it's not a party issue, then what do we care if Vukman is going to go home to a member of the General Committee of the SPO or not? It is obviously a party issue for you, and I am sorry that Mr. Janko Veselinovic is not present in the O.R., is he present, and he would have made it clear that he was wrong. What exactly is the diaspora ministry? When the Janitors fled Belgrade in 1804, they took refuge in a place called Ada Kale. The diaspora ministry is Ada Kale for the SPO. All those who once represented something in the party and had some state functions have now taken refuge in the Ministry of Diaspora. It's their Ada Kale. Here Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic is in an unconscious way, I must admit, instead of explaining what people's names have to do with relationships, which I will look back later on, with the diaspora, in fact try to defend the Diaspora Act. The Diaspora Act either makes it better or the worst thing has nothing to do with the fact that money has been misused by the Diaspora Ministry. Here Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic boasts that they, minors, invented the Ministry of Diaspora and never before in Serbia's history has anyone dealt with diaspora issues. Mr. Srdjane Srekovic, from 1991 in the Republic of Serbia, there was a ministry called the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia and when the SRS participated in the Serbian government, from 1998 to 2000, just one Serbian radical was headed by the ministry, Mr. Milorad Mircic. Now, 13 years later, you say you invented the Diaspora Ministry. You're not. I really don't understand the purpose of that nervous reaction of yours as I can mention the names of people who didn't die but were killed. Now I ask you, Mr. Sredkovic, did anyone from the SRS kill Zvonko Osmajlic and Veselin Boskovic? That's what I'm asking you, and that's what I'm asking my DS colleagues. If you have any knowledge that any Serbian radical has participated in their murder, state the name and name of that man, and we from the SRS will try to make them feel guilty. You're actually substituting for thesis. Your leader has not stopped talking about death squadrons since 1999, about some secret units that have conducted political liquidations in Serbia. Tell us, Mr. Sretkovic, did the SRS, did Vojislav Seselj have these famous death squadrons? Who did we kill? Because of the fear of your current coalition partner, for everything that happened in the 1990s, you say it was the SRS. It's our fault that the Ibar Highway happened, we were to blame for that assassination or attempted assassination, whether it was real or staged, on Vuk Draskovic in Budva in 2000, etc. Ask your coalition partner for these death squadrons, ask the SPS. What can you do to honor the Ibari Highway? If anyone should be ashamed, it's you and it's your leader Vuk Draskovic. Never in my life, there is no political price I would be willing to pay to sit in government with the people I accuse of killing my friends and political associates. You've been doing it since 2000, mourning, diving crocodile tears, printing books on the Ibar Master's Department and sitting in the government with a party that controlled the Security Resor in 1999. You find yourself invited to say that me or any Serbian radical is a disgrace to what we say! Mr. Sretkovic, you obviously have no answer to these questions, and I don't think you have a lot of personal courage either, because instead of putting yourself out there and explaining how Veselin Boskovic and Zvonko Osmajlic are connected to the Serbian diaspora, you say -- there are some graduate lawyers at the Ministry, they have settled in these competitions, and I just signed. Do you know who defended himself like that? Andrija Artuković. He said, "I didn't kill anyone, I just signed." That's the same thing you're doing in 2011. Mr. Sretkovic, I don't see your coalition partner, Peter Kuntic, president of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina. That's a different name for HDZ in Vojvodina. I don't know if you've reacted, Mr. Sredkovic, to these pamphlets that are shared in the Vojvodina. Look, Mr. Sretkovic, the news and publishing institution "Croatian Word" Subotica sent the mail "family", according to Grubisic, Livade 101, 22427 Croatians...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62398	People's MP, I would like to ask you about the subject of the agenda and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62399	So that I don't turn out to be false, let your viewers see directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62400	People's MP, I didn't say you were telling lies and you were cheating, I said you were violating the Rules of Procedure, which oblige you to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62401	I simply want to inform Mr. Sretkovic of something that is in his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62402	Minister Sretkovic and his responsibilities are not even a topic. The theme is the impelation initiative that you submitted. So, from what the government has answered try in your discussion that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, send all messages to both the Minister and the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62403	I'll only try to get in touch if you give me a chance. So, "Croatian Word" and the Croatian National Council of Subotica send a letter to the Serbian family currently living in Hrtkovci, who were expelled by Ustashas from Slavonia, to declare themselves to be Croats, to be their Croatian mother tongue and to be Catholics by religion...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62404	People's MP, except that you abuse the rights you have as deputy president of the parliamentary group, you are now seriously violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which oblige you to speak on the subject of the agenda. I'm really asking you, either on the subject or let me warn you. Please don't throw it away. Any attempt to abuse the right to a free word, as well as to abuse any provision by the Rules of Procedure which binds us all, obliges me to remind the MPs. I am absolutely certain that MP Aleksandar Martinovic knows that what he is doing is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I do not think it is worthy of the Institute of Interruption either, it is not worthy of the Assembly's session to continue on this. So please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62405	Here, Mrs. Comic, I am trying to point out to you a real danger that Serbs living in Serbia are diaspora. Mr. Sretkovic is in charge of diaspora issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62406	If you want this session to end in such a way, that I remind you all by punishing you for your conduct obligations, I am at your disposal, so please refrain from reacting to which you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. MP Momir Markovic. I ask you not to throw away, nor does MP Zoran Popovic. If you think that because of the passion you want to put into your political attitudes you can violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then it is time to remind you that you must not and that MP Aleksandar Martinovic does not put anyone in a hypothetical position of diaspora or infringement rights. Please, on the subject of the agenda, or I will be forced to return you to the terms of the Rules of Procedure which binds you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62407	I really don't know, Mrs. Comić, which is why I insult the dignity of the National Assembly and violate the Rules of Procedure, which I am trying to ask Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic, here, may I ask a man if he knows these things are happening and how dangerous they are to Serbian national identity, and according to the Ministry Act. Mr. Sretkovic's ministry is competent to preserve that identity. Now I'd like to say a few sentences, if I may. If I can't, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62408	No, you and I know it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62409	Here, Mr. Sredkovic, since I obviously don't have the opportunity to tell you this in a microphone, I'll tell you when the debate is over, I'll show you this. If you find me a country in a world where a national council, as it is called, asks Serbs to plead not as Serbs, but as Croats, as Catholics, and if it were Croatian mother tongue, I would ask you to tell me which state it is and which state tolerates such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62410	People's MP, and you, when you find a session of the assembly, where the chairman tolerates the infinite violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I will beg you to tell me. Now I'm asking you about the agenda and this is a warning. Next is the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not heard, and I do not think any of the SRS and any of the Serbian citizens have heard that, say Mr. Srdjan Sredkovic responded to the statement by Jadranka Kosor, the president of the Croatian government, who, in order to topple the dignity of Serbia and the Serbian people, went to KIM and said that Hashim Thaci was her biggest friend, the man who traded with the Serbian authorities in KIM and Albania, the biggest friend of the Croatian prime minister. The Diaspora Ministry is silent about that. The other day, Mr. Sretkovic, otherwise these things I'm telling you aren't particularly confidential things, it's enough to turn on the first program of Croatian television, there you'll see such a wave of hatred for Serbs, Serbia, the Orthodoxism to lift each normal man's hair on his head. The other day, Vladimir Seks, Mr. Sretkovic, and you didn't respond to that, counted candidates so-called. "Kukuriku coalition", so he listed Serbian names -- Zoran, Milanka, Rade, etc., and asked the Croatian public if they were candidates for the Serb assembly or for the Croatian Parliament. It's an eclectic manifestation of chauvinism and racism. The Diaspora Ministry is silent about that. You are still worshipping the current Croatian government because they are allegedly going to help you join the EU faster. Is that how Mr. Sretkovic is kept his Serbian national identity? Is it the price of joining the EU, not being Serbs anymore, that we must, as it says here, declare that we are Croats, Catholics and that our mother tongue is Croatian? Mr. Sretkovic, I haven't heard of this debate all the time what essential connections do Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic and the Serbs in the diaspora have? I want to remind you, Mr. Sretkovic, of some historical facts that you have obviously forgotten in your desire to be bigger Europeans than even those who have formed the EU. Mr. Zvonko Osmajlic, Mr. Sredkovic, if my memory is not deceived, was one of the elders of the Serbian National Guard, the paramilitary SPO formation, which worked in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. For some of the crimes committed by the Serbian National Guard, Vojislav Seselj has been indicted in The Hague tribunal. Just laugh, Mr. Happyboy. It's very funny. (Srdjan Sredkovic: Shame. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62412	Please, no direct communication. All participants in the session have an obligation to comply with the Rules of Procedure, so please also the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62413	You see, Mrs. Comic, what democracy looks like in practice. As soon as a man says something the minister doesn't respond to, I should be ashamed of myself. What if I was embarrassed? Now I'm going to read to you what it says in the UN tribunal's indictment against Vojislav Seselj, as far as your leader is concerned. Should it be a disgrace to me or to The Hague tribunal, whom you support?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62414	People's MP, please return to your agenda. As interesting as the illustration of the charges, of the trial in The Hague is, however, so far from the agenda that it cannot be connected, so please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62415	It's not far, Mrs. Comic, and how it's connected, only if you let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62416	I cannot allow you a Messenger of the people, it is not the idea to speak in accordance with the agenda, that the MP should say what is beyond the agenda, and then say, well, this was all about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62417	The minister told me I should be ashamed for trying to quote the UN tribunal's indictment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62418	I reminded the minister that he also has obligations as part of the session, if you listen to what I say when he talks, because I am the only one who can interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62419	Can I just read one sentence and you'll see it has something to do with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62420	It can't be in any way related to the topic of the agenda, the interpretation of Minister Sretkovic, so I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62421	I'll try, Mrs. Comic, I'm not a particularly smart man, I'll put all my intellectual potential to succeed, and if I fail, what to do. So on 23 January 1990, Vojislav Seselj became the leader of the Serbian Free movement, and on 14 March 1999 he joined the coalition with Vuk Draskovic, also a Serbian nationalist, and founded the SPO.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62422	People's MP, to spare you and me both a process that involves giving criminal measures, please, or you will use your five minutes at your disposal to talk about the agenda, or I will thank you. You want five more minutes? Just sign in and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62423	Mrs. Comic, I suggest, but please don't take it as evil for me, so before the session starts, you can tell us a list of forbidden words that cannot be used in the National Assembly. So the forbidden words are Vuk Draskovic, Zoran Osmajlic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62424	People's messenger, he writes in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly what is prescribed in conduct, and what is forbidden in conduct. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62425	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we held a session on the subject of interpretation on the work of a minister, namely the Government's response to that impelation. Unfortunately, as many times as before, this topic has been proposed by those who have been discussing it today and have asked that it be debated by the fact that they talked about everything else, not about what was the subject, that they were trying to be politically accounted for, which, of course, must not be the case, that they were trying to make some ideological differences between the party to which they belonged and the party to which the minister belonged, trying to win over the electoral body, I suppose. Unfortunately, we have missed one good opportunity to achieve what is the role of parliament, which is the control function of parliament when it comes to the work of ministers and the work of the government. What is the subject for us today is a request for interpretation on the legality of work, business and responsibility of Minister of Faith and Diaspora Srdjana Sredkovic. They listed here four reasons why they're looking for impelation. What we are discussing today and what we will discuss in the voting day is the government's response to the interpretation. So, what could have been challenged today, here today, the subject of the debate should not have been and should not have been a minister, and especially not his party, especially the leader of that party or any party, what we were supposed to discuss today is whether the government's response confirmed or denied the allegations from the request for interpretation? Unfortunately, those who applied for interpretation were at least, or by no means, dealing with the very essence. More because of the citizens of Serbia, because I think anyone who tried to turn it into an interparty account or a deal with a minister today - missed the topic. And anyone who has tried to run some kind of political campaign on some topics that are the difficult topics of our past -- has also missed the topic. I believe that the citizens recognize it and that they have long known that they punish and punish in the elections. I expected applicants to ask for interpretation to somehow prove to me that the government's response is not true, that what the government said is not good or there's some hidden argument they see and we don't see from the government's response. Therefore, since the request for interpretation referred to the question of the purpose of spending of the Ministry's resources, the request states that the Government Act was violated, the Ministry Act and the Budgetary System Act, in response to the Government unequivocally states that the Ministry had the resources in accordance with the Government Act, in accordance with the Ministry Act and in accordance with the Budget System Act. If anyone doubts whether the government has responded correctly, then I call on him to have independent state institutions dealing with labour control and control of spending all the budgets and that whenever these institutions indicate some abuse, then the same ones who are now saying -- see, they find that something was not done in accordance with the law, and when they do not find it, they say -- yes, but they are yours. So something's wrong with that attitude, or they're not doing it right, or if they're doing it right, then we have to believe that even if they don't find the leaks, they're working in accordance with the law and their responsibility. What is also completely incomprehensible to me here is that the minister is now reporting on the ministry's work. If we understood what this session is and if we understood how this Parliament works and what all the instruments Parliament has, then we would know that the Diaspora Committee, the committee responsible for monitoring the work of the Ministry we are talking about today, has the opportunity to invite the Minister and the Ministry to submit a report each time. I will remind only that the chairman of that committee is a member of the SRS who has applied for impelation, but has never asked the minister to submit a report on his work. Then again we come to the same conclusion – this session is an attempt to run a party campaign for the purpose of obtaining some votes. I don't want to talk here about the level of communication that falls again below the level that we should really take care of because it offends the dignity of Serbian citizens, but again, I repeat again -- Serbian citizens know it well, and those who have been acting like this have long not seen as any option of their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62426	The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62427	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who participated in this debate, and I hope that this practice of exchanging arguments about everything that is relevant for what is happening in our country between the National Assembly and the Government of Serbia will be something that is common and normal. I also hope that in the time ahead, there will be a greater maturity of the promoters to discuss really some important and essential things, not that the proposals will actually be an attempt at political marketing. I'm sorry if this debate at some point was at a level below what I consider to be worthy of the National Assembly, but I didn't want to be a part of it. I am sorry that certain MPs have mocked the dead people who have been killed by the state and by keeping their memories of these people, we are, in fact, keeping their memory of these ten difficult years of fighting for democratic processes. We have fought to have a situation like this in Serbia, so that we can discuss everything in a civilized, democratic and completely open way in the Assembly. What I can promise to the MPs and the public is that we will continue with our strength and our strength to implement this new policy towards the diaspora and Serbs in the region, about which consensus has been reached within the ruling coalition, within the Serbian government and within the entire state summit. Indeed, the relationship to four million of our people living outside the borders of our country deserves a new relationship that we have been building in these last three years, not in the way that it has been done in the last decades, which has been extremely counterproductive and negative in the interests of both the states of Serbia and all of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-24-0.u62428	I'm closing the search, and before we finish our workday today, I'd like to thank all the participants in the session. This is in this session of the Assembly the first interpretation and answer to the interpretation and I really hope it becomes a regular practice. In this sense, it is to record a stenographically that I really thank all the participants of the session at work. The day for the vote on the government's response will be timely and later notified. The assembly continues its work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, continuing the debate on the joint principle and uniform review of the agenda of the second session of the second regular session that we were working on Thursday. Thank you.
