ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group, and in accordance with Article 209. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Chairman, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic set Thursday, 30 June 2011, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on Current Issues. Current topics on which the Prime Minister, individual ministers and other government officials will answer parliamentary questions are: 1. RESULTS OF THE SARADY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA WITH THE UNSKI TRIBUNAL, SRS' MEP group. I remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked that parliamentary questions on this topic be answered by Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and President of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Vladimir Vukcevic, Prosecutor for War Crimes. I would also like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, and Mr Dusan Ignatovic, director of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, attends. 2. The Republic of Serbia's relation to military alliances, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I also remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked to answer parliamentary questions regarding this topic: Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister and Dragan Sutanovac, Defence Minister. 3. The Serbian government's policy towards the southern Serbian region in the context of the open Western diplomat's demands for recognition is so. The independent Kosovo conditions for EU entry, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked that parliamentary questions on this topic be answered by Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Borisav Stefanovic, head of the negotiating team in the upcoming dialogue with the interim institutions of self-government in Pristina and Goran Bogdanovic, Minister for KIM. Before moving to work, I note that the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, is not invited to today's session because there is no legal basis for the President of the Republic to answer parliamentary questions, since it does not fall within the circle of officials who are under the provisions of the Article. 204, 209 and 210. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required to answer parliamentary questions. Allow me, too, to remind you first of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the way MPs are asked, and on the current subject: - the right to ask questions shall be given to all MPs, and that: the first question shall be asked by the representative of the current subject, then the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered parliamentary group, up to the number of parliamentary groups and MPs according to the applications, and until the total time for asking questions and giving answers. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply and, orally, during the duration of the answer. The MP may ask up to three questions (Article 213). Rules of Procedure); - answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the hall (Article 212). The Rules of Procedure); - the time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, according to the order of applications (Article 214. Rules of Procedure); - during the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure (Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask all MPs who wish to use their right to ask a parliamentary question concerning the current topics, to immediately submit applications for a word with a list of MPs who want to ask a question before we move on to asking questions, so that a list can be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribes order and the way in which MPs are entitled to ask questions. Would any other parliamentary groups like to submit a list of the names of MPs who want to ask a question? I'm asking you to do it, so we can get back to work. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. In line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the right to ask the question as the first in a row is the proposer. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57063	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we all know, the theme of all topics is KIM. Unfortunately, there are only three ministers here from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We do not have persons representing the Republic of Serbia and are negotiating, implementing the principle of effective recognition of KIM, negotiating with the Shiparian Separatists and terrorists with KIM, and it is truly surprising in the first place. So, first and foremost, how could you possibly enter the process of effective recognition of KIM by negotiating with the representatives of the government of Hashim Thaci, the self-called government, which, behold, Dick Marti identified as the main mobster and the man who participated in human organs trafficking. So, in kidnapping Serbs and removing and trading their organs. They sold those organs to rich countries in the West, and now you're in negotiations with such criminals, with such mobsters and terrorists. I remind you that in the report by Dick Marty, it is very precise that even the German public service on 9 January 2007, in a document classified as secret, on the 57th page identified Hashim Thaci as the main mobster in Kosovo and Metohija, that he was also named in another German secret police report from 22 February 2005, along with Ljuha and Haradinaj as the key figures of organised crime in Kosovo and Metohija, ana 27th of that report, which he had insight into Dick Marti, is clearly written and says what all the crimes were committed by the Cypriot terrorists from so-called. Drenic groups. Now you have entered into negotiations with the representatives of Hashim Thaci. It's against the law, it's against the law. By international public law, you exercise the so-called effective recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. Is this policy in line with what Serbian President Boris Tadic said on Friday and transferred by the BETA Agency, that the great Albania, the reality Serbia could live with if there was an agreement solution? Are you, in fact, implementing Boris Tadic's policy implementing the idea of creating a great Albania? So are you preparing to establish interstate relations with Kosovo and Metohija? Look, from the beginning, representatives of Western countries have told you that Serbia will have to recognise Kosovo's independence on your way to the European Union. That was the first said by Andreas Scobel, the German ambassador in April 2007, that Serbia must recognise an independent Kosovo. In 2008, the European Commission organised an "Let's Go to Europe" event in Pristina in the middle of 2008. (President: three minutes. ) The events were sponsored by Mission Eulex and the European Commission Office. It is related to Kosovo and Metohija, so Kosovo's accession to the European Union. Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57064	Are any of the government representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) Minister Gordan Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57065	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs, what MP Alexic said, it is clear to all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has one policy, this policy is based primarily on the Constitution and the Assembly resolutions that were adopted in this assembly in 2007 and 2008. Are we leading politics towards Kosovo and Metohija and the Constitution? Be sure - yes. Do we want to recognise Kosovo and Metohija? No, I don't. I don't want to convince anyone here in any way what we're doing in these negotiations. Above all, the aim of these negotiations is how to make life better for all Kosovo and Metohija citizens, primarily Serbs, and you all know what conditions and what problems the Serbian community faces primarily in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. For this reason, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not view these negotiations as a confirmation of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. On the contrary, we believe this is primarily in the interest of the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and thus the state of Serbia. We are witnessing that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have daily problems, face freedom of movement, legal protection, return problems, electricity problems, telecommunications. This government does not see another way to solve these problems, only to talk to Albanians. Let's have someone in this room explain how we can solve these problems if we don't sit down and talk. If we could solve these problems ourselves, we would have solved them for 12 years. Therefore, this government is firmly defined for dialogue, because it believes that only the talks, negotiations, can bring about solving the daily problems facing the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, the crucial question is status. We expect that after these technical issues we will also sit down and discuss the status of Kosovo and Metohija, because, according to us, the status of Kosovo and Metohija is not finished, nor in any way do we want these negotiations to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. So, in no way do I want to assure you of the correctness of our policy here. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia will give the last word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57066	I ask the People's MPs not to receive and not to violate the Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly shall also apply when the sitting is on the topic and when parliamentary matters are. I ask all MPs to stop talking and, with a loud conversation, interfere with the session participants who receive the right to speak. Once again, please, without throwing it out of the bench, everyone will have the right to speak. Do not make a strategy for making incidents at a session that should be dedicated to the topic in question, but to having a session that respects the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57067	As for the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija and the requirement of some countries, countries that have accepted Kosovo and Metohija's independence would like Serbia to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, however, these are individual requirements, these are individual interpretations. We had opportunities here when the German parliamentarians also visited that it was then denied that the German government was asking for Serbia to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as a condition for joining the EU. Therefore, no one is asking, nor will we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57068	The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57069	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. First, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the status of Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo and Metohija has been resolved as an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia. That is the case under the UN Charter, so is the final Helsinki Act, so is the Paris Agreement and a series of resolutions of Resolution 1244. Take it and read it. Ask Minister Jeremic. You may not think that this process you are conducting in negotiations with terrorists is an actual recognition, but it considers it an international public right. According to international public law, there is "de facto" and "de iura" recognition. "De facto" was, for example, the recognition of China by the United States wasn't a declaration, but Nixon visited China in 1972 and it's considered a moment of recognition. Your recognition is of the Soviet Union, agreements with the Soviet Union of a number of countries from 1921 to 1924, which are an economic agreement, just what your Borko Stefanovic is doing when he negotiates on the CEFTA agreement. When the CEFTA agreement was concluded, UNMIK was present. So they were present at the UN, but you threw out the UN and you started with the factual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, you commit a crime and you violate the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which is why one day you will answer. As for the Western requirements, the European Parliament called on 5 February 2009 to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. On 23 May 2011, Franz Shozberger, rapporteur of the Committee of the Regions and Regions for the Balkans and Europe, called on Vojvodina to join the EU negotiations. German Foreign Ministry representative Warren Hoyer said on June 14th that reality is an independent Kosovo that Belgrade must recognise. German lawmakers said on June 27th that Belgrade would have to recognise an independent Kosovo. German Ambassador Wolfgang Mass said23. June that good neighbourly relations, including relations with Kosovo, are a criteria for Serbia to join the EU. (President: Two minutes. ) US diplomat Galuci said Serbia cannot join the EU until it recognises Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57070	I ask all Members of Parliament to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the regulations for the use of three minutes and two minutes. So MP Boris Aleksic did not ask two questions. Please don't do this. So, the session is clearly well-conceived. The rules of three minutes, used by the MP in the first question and two minutes, used in the second, are clearly written in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your right to get two minutes is the right to ask questions. I ask you in the future, to exercise your right to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with what it says. Otherwise, the session loses its meaning. Do any of the ministers want to comment? Yeah. ) Minister Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57071	Dear MPs, Mr. Aleksic, if the KIM status had been resolved, we would have an army down there today, both the police and all the institutions of the Serbian state. Unfortunately, you and I both know that we don't have any, or we have very little ingenuity on the kim itself. You know how much I face the problems of moving to KIM, even though I live down there with my family. Imagine how other ministers and other people move. Therefore, if the status had been resolved, we would not have had these problems. We would be in a situation to solve problems down there, not depend on the international community and depend on Albanians. That's why we're asking for this dialogue to continue, to discuss status. According to us, status has not been resolved. I know perfectly well also Resolution 1244, and I know perfectly well all the documents related to the KIM that have been brought, not only since 1999, but since 1997. Therefore, I don't think we should use the situation as a difficult situation in KIM for day-to-day policy purposes and give a lesson here – how and how to solve these problems. I agree, every suggestion, every remark is welcome. I expect you to make concrete proposals on these negotiations, and tomorrow on the status negotiations, and how we can improve the lives of people in KIM, not that we realize here that the status is resolved, calling for the Constitution, calling for resolution and calling for a final act, and for many documents that were brought in the 1990s and after 1999. We'd all like to have our insides down. We would all like down there if Serbs and other non-Albanians, and even Albanians, had no problem with freedom of movement, with telecommunications, with electricity. Unfortunately, this is one reality that we have now faced, where we want in an adequate way, in the mutual interest of solving these problems. Now we have a situation at KIM, that Albanians have got everything they've been looking for. On the other hand, we have Serbs who lost everything they had. For this reason, we are going into these negotiations and we are counting, we believe that we will solve mutual interest for both Serbs and Albanians. We do not aim for Serbs to get everything and Albanians to lose everything. We need to be aware of that, too. Down below, we want problems to be solved in a compromise way, a way that will less be unsatisfactory both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57072	Do they want the word, i.e. the right to ask the question of the president or the authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) Does the President or the authorised representative of the Manjin parliamentary group want the word? Yeah. Please sign in. MP Riza Halimi, the right to ask a question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57073	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I ask a question, I will conclude that the topic has been put prematurely at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are currently talking about candidacy, and joining the EU is one of the more long-term processes that this assembly will certainly have the opportunity to discuss in the future. I would support what I heard at the beginning, that it is the concern of the Assembly and other authorities of the state to look after the problems that the Serb community has in Kosovo. That's perfectly legitimate. Of course, they have problems and these problems need to be solved, and they must be solved, with the help of the international community and possibly the institutions of Kosovo, which are inevitable in that context. I ask the question – how much is the issue of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in Presevo Valley of the current state and lack of any dialogue so far at the Belgrade-Pristina route? It is good that Minister Ljajic is there. I asked the question twice – what to do with pensioners who spent part of their employment in Kosovo? They can't, if they've spent their entire work hours, they can't retire. If part of the internship was done in Kosovo territory, they are not admitted. Time's up. Pensioners, meanwhile, are dying, and they can't have that basic right to realize it. I'm talking about Albanians Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. I'm not talking about the problem, the bigger issue of retirement and pension funds in Kosovo. I'm talking about citizens of this country who are part of their internship done to Kosovo. Then, if a child is born in a maternity home in Gjilan, Pristina, they have no right to members of their family. They can't make a child's allowance come true. Even court proceedings are opened against doctors, when they received them for vaccination and based on these certificates, they received a child's supplement. There is a trial in Bujanovac for this situation. (President: three minutes. ) The question is mine – is this the population of this state hostage and what to do, that they do not have these problems, and these difficult life problems that have not been solved for a long time?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57074	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer? Please sign in. I ask all MPs first to concentrate on time of three minutes, and secondly, to ask a very clear question that any minister would have, or a representative of the government, or Mr. Vukcevic had grounds to answer and to answer. Otherwise, the session doesn't make sense unless you ask questions. I don't know why that's not clear. MP Riza Halimi. Would you like to ask another two questions? Here you go. Please sign in. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57075	I got two minutes. Okay. Now I'd like to talk about the problem of diplomas, high school diplomas. I received a direct response from the prime minister, that dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina should wait for this topic. Question – how long should it wait? When the youth goes either to Kosovo, or to Europe, or anywhere, and especially when the problem even arises interstate, and when visa regimes and visa liberalisation are risked, when representatives of the Belgian Embassy or government, or Norway or Sweden, the problem of leaving the area is updated, and immediately forgotten. It is immediately forgotten that this is due to the terribly difficult economic situation in the area, that young people, in addition to not being recognised the diplomas they acquired at the universities of Pristina, Tirana or Tetova, on their own direction, without using any state fund, these diplomas are not recognised and these people then have to find a solution. If in the hometown, if in a country whose citizens cannot solve these basic problems, they must seek solutions -- one part in Kosovo, another in Europe. Then immediately, this Albanian community, along with the Roma community, becomes a problem that, as we can see, this government is still not beginning to solve. It's about serious and difficult life problems. I've asked these questions many times, but the answers are unclear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57076	Two minutes. Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the government want to answer the question, if he understands the question has been asked? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. He's not there. National MP Velimir Ilic has the right to ask a question, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57077	Madam Ministers, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask a few questions. What is the purpose and role of the KIM Ministry, if they do not participate and conduct KIM-related negotiations, on the problems that are evident below? What is the role of the minister in the government? Why isn't his seat on KIM? Can the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia enter whenever he wants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo, or not? What is his relationship and does he respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and very often violate it, making some statements that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? How is it possible that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not admitted to Kosovo when they are due to make a working visit, if the current Resolution 1244, which is the only thing we have and what is the biggest, at this point, treasure of the Republic of Serbia? Who authorized you to simply violate the two resolutions of this House you are in? What did you do as the ministry on the economic plan for the Serbs living downstairs – to get a job, to ensure existence, that they could work? What companies do that, who do they work with? Is Serbia obliged to buy out what they produce, as the Albanians will not? They're completely economically unstable. They have no stability, no protection, nothing. What has been done, as the Ministry, in the 21st century, to gain free movement in Kosovo's most fundamental citizen of Serbian nationality? That's the most basic thing. What does the queen of Serbia do down there to ensure the existence of Serbs who simply leave one by one because they have nowhere to work, have nothing to do? Is it possible that no company works in Leposavic, for example? Why didn't you do something to start companies dealing with wood processing, making furniture and the government of the Republic of Serbia undertake to buy out their products and pay them in time, especially in the area of agriculture what you did as a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57078	Three minutes. Thank you. Any of the government's representatives report for an answer? Five minutes. Please sign in. Minister Goran Bogdanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57079	Thank you. Dear Members, thank you, Mr. Ilium, for asking so many questions. I'll do my best to give you an answer. First question – what is the role of the KIM Ministry and what is the KIM Ministry doing in negotiations? And last time we had a session here, among other things, I answered Kim's question. The KIM ministry gives full logistics about negotiations with Pristina. The negotiating team also includes my advisor and my former cabinet chief and many KIM workers who are trying in every way possible to help bring this process to an end, to the mutual satisfaction of all KIM citizens. Therefore, the ministry's role is logistic, expert and role of the ministry is that in all ways, especially since it knows the excellent situation on the ground, it helps with these negotiations. Why isn't the Ministry's headquarters on KIM? Mr. Ilic, why didn't you fight when there were much better conditions for the Ministry's headquarters or before the coordination centre to be at KIM? Believe me, it would be much easier for me to be in Kosovo, if it were the Ministry of Kosovo's headquarters, to be with my family every day, not here in Belgrade. We have opened two offices, the KIM Ministry, one in Gracanica, one in Kosovo Mitrovica that function where the citizens of KIM can apply through these offices, make suggestions and exercise their rights through these offices. Can I enter Kosovo or can't? Unfortunately, I can't go south of the Ibar River whenever I want. It's a fact, and that fact doesn't mean running away. It's known to everyone, it's also known to the international community. To the north, of course, I can get in there because I live there, and I don't think I've had any problems with that before. Do I respect the Constitution? I respect that, and I respect that. I take great care not only that I respect the Constitution, but also that I respect the congregation resolutions, including Resolution 1244 because it is my duty. What did we do on the economic plan, as far as KIM is concerned? Mr. Ilichu, a lot of things. Unfortunately, I don't have that cheap marketing, so just for reasons I can't show the public, first of all here in central Serbia, what the KIM Ministry has done in the last two and a half years. We've done a lot, starting with a sustainable survival. First of all, when I say that, I mean opening new jobs. It is known that in the last two and a half years we have invested about two million euros in small and medium-sized enterprises' jobs, that we have thus opened about 317 jobs, that we have controlled the spending of every dinar that went to the KIM premises. We've done a lot in agriculture, because we know that the number of people that survived in KIM lives in rural areas. We put a special accent on return communities, primarily in Metohija and Kosovo Pomoravlje. We were getting breeding cattle, so far, we were rebuilding the machinery. So we have a situation where in Methochia, where mostly people live on their work by working the country, we've got a couple of combines, a few dozen tractors, connected machinery, over a hundred breeding cows, a few dozen sheep. We made about 20-30 barns. So I'm talking about the aspect of the development of agriculture in this area. (President: Five minutes, Minister. Please finish. ) We went with a pilot project in a municipality where we planted about six acres of raspberries, strawberries, where we provided the existence of 40 return families, to have revenues of over 500 euros per month.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57080	Thank you. Does the MP want to ask two more questions? You have two minutes. Just sign in, please. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57081	Mr. Minister, listening to you, I am extremely disappointed. You report to Parliament and you say, we got 30 cows, we got a few dozen sheep. You know what those results are? When a minister from one serious government says he has acquired 30 cows and a few dozen sheep in one province. Well, that's sad, that's sad. What are the meat producers down there? Where are they exporting, where are the milk producers? Who buys their products? Where do they place it, in what way, what kind of organization did you make people survive to work, etc.? Your story and, don't be angry I beg you, but the concept you used – we've done a lot. You know what that means? That can be said on the street by a shepherd or somewhere when you meet him, what you did, and he says, much. For example, I'm telling you, the ministry where I've been has done over a billion investment works in Kosovo, 400 million houses, buildings that have been done. What you're opening down there right now, that's what Mr. Gilas and I have opened and provided for everything. In Zubi's Stream sports grounds, halls, etc. A series of buildings, road infrastructure, approach monasteries, approach many of our villages and enclaves, etc. Therefore, I ask you, when you come to Parliament in the future, bring a report, very concrete and clear. Please be a serious minister. When you come to expose the results of your work in Kosovo, write down the material and... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... divide the MPs and specifically so many roads, so many objects, how many houses were built, how many apartments, etc. (President: Two minutes. ) So many people are employed, as many companies are open, not like this – we have done a lot, so please, you are a serious minister. Buy 30 cows, it's a simple host...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57082	People's MP, you've used two minutes. Thank you. Minister Goran Bogdanovic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57083	Mr. Ilic, yes, we've done a lot, unlike you who haven't done anything. You mention the number of a billion, that you invested in Kosovo's space. Where are your roads? Well, down there, the people of KiM know who built the roads and how many roads we've only done in two and a half years. What time? Come on, exactly what time did you do it? I live downstairs in the territory of the municipality of Leposavić, where I live every day. Which road did you do, which road you did on the territory of Mitrovica municipality, which road you did on the territory of the municipality of Gjilana, which road did you make on the territory of the Municipality of Gracanica, Strpce? So please, I know best what you did and how much you invested. We now have much less money, much more apartments, houses, roads than you have. I don't think this session should be a topic, I agree, I don't have that problem saying everything we've done, because I have and what I'm proud of. That's what KIM citizens know best. For these two and a half years we've done a lot of things and roads and apartments and houses. If I tell you that in just two and a half years we've done 130 apartments, 70 houses, we've done a few miles of roads. There's no local self-government, there's no village on Kim where there's no asphalt. And that's what we've done for the last two and a half years. There is no more settlements where there is no sewerage, there is no urban environment in the municipality of Leposavic, neither in Zvecan, nor in Mitrovica, nor in the Zubi stream that there is no street. So let's use arguments and facts. I don't want to belittle the difficult situation in Kosovo in any way, but I can't go beyond the fact that you treat me and the Ministry in that way and that you claim that we didn't do anything down there. We did what we did. That's what citizens know best.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57084	The word has been given by MP Slobodan Samardzic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. People's MP Velimir Ilic is asking for a word. ) National MPs, I refer you either to reading the provisions defining the course of the session with the topical theme, or to reading the stenogram, as I have read how the session with the topical theme is going, or to an example of the session scenario available to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. The word is by MP Slobodan Samardzic, the mandated president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57085	Thank you. The honourable MPs, the President-in-Office, are ashamed for this National Assembly to speak only about KIM on parliamentary matters. It's the only form of our work, in which we can say something about kim. In three years of this House's work, we had a day-to-day topic about KIM, initiated by the government, you remember last year. If it's a shame to have a rock of a state for a second to say something more, because the Rules of Procedure is like this, it's no wonder it seems that way. In fact, we are present these days and these weeks at the final stage of recognising KIM by Serbia. That thing started with the beginning of your term, so July 2008. Many moves were then taken, which this Assembly did not discuss, and moves that are actually the international community, i.e. Western countries and Albanians in KIM have made it clear that Serbia is ready to recognise Kosovo and will do so, therefore, step by step, phase, because it is not ready to do so immediately and suddenly, but will do so in one period to come. Now we're somewhere near the end of that process. We have open these talks and these talks need to end with some result, some agreement between Belgrade and Pristina on certain issues, and this agreement will in fact be the final act, which will be called the de jure act of recognition of Kosovo. So, since the acceptance of Eulex, which has no international legal basis and is based on Marty Ahtisaari's plan, through a police agreement with Eulex, through the adoption of the EU dictatorship regarding the draft resolution of the General Assembly and the launch of these talks, it is a step by step. It is the government's tactics, and in accordance with that tactics, it is that the Assembly does not discuss it. The goal is to let the public know as little about it as possible. These discussions in the congregation, however, make it clear to the public what it is. So, the matter goes to October 12th, when the commission should give the green light to the European Council for Candidates and until then an agreement must be made with Pristina. Now, about that, I'm going to ask one specific question, because I'm running out of time. That's a question for one of the government's representatives. Tell us – what will be the form of the agreement between Belgrade and Pristina? So what kind of document is it going to be, what kind of document in a formal sense? We ask that because it is not only a formal question, but it is a very significant and practical and legal issue for this relationship between Belgrade and Pristina, but rather before the public knows anything about it... (President: three minutes. ) And before much speculation is made about it, it begins with the Prime Minister in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57086	Are any of the government representatives answering for a word? Minister Goran Bogdanovic, I'm just asking you to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57087	Thank you. I agree that the KIM problem is a burning problem and that the Serbian Parliament should discuss it. Make sure that happens. However, I cannot agree that Serbia is ready to recognise KIM, that it has done so from 1 July 2008 to today in any way. These negotiations, in any way, do not prejudge the status, in no way confirm so-called. Independence of KIM. What form of agreement will be, surely, that whatever we agree on in Brussels will not be signed, but I do not want in any way to reconsider these matters, nor to speak on behalf of the head of the negotiating team. I expect every moment that the head of the negotiating team will arrive here, and he will give you an adequate answer to those questions. What's safe, we're not signing any contracts or pre-contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57088	National MP Slobodan Samardzic, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57089	This response is unsatisfactory, and even I don't think it's worthy of your position in the Serbian government. You should know that, what form of this agreement is going to be, and really, or Serbia doesn't know where it's going from the beginning, it has to know what the finals of these talks will look like, or someone else is doing, which is quite possible and that's why you don't know, or you're not really in the game to give us information on this issue in these internal relations. This is a very important question. Therefore, the answer is completely inadequate and although perhaps the president of the negotiating group, the group for discussion, will come, for me it is too late, I can no longer talk about it with MPs. You said these talks didn't prejudge the status. In fact, these talks have already recognised the status of the very fact that you have set out to speak to Pristina as an equal party. In the General Assembly resolution, Serbia and Kosovo are called sides of the talks, and you negotiate when it comes to the EU to achieve good neighbourly relations. That's where the status is already on. Good neighbourly relations can only be developed with a good neighbor, and a good neighbour, in an international jargon, is a country. The countries are neighbours to each other, only they should be good. It's something that deny your thesis, that you don't actually prejudge the status. The status has already been prejudged and it exists. Now that we've mentioned the status, I'm going to ask you a question about that, because you said in the previous answer that you're going to open up the status issue in the next phase. Please tell us precisely – do you have any positive signs in the international community or in the Western countries that operate this side? What the public knows is that the United States and the large EU member states are saying - status is a finished story. There won't be a word to talk about. (President: Two minutes. That's what Thomas Cantrimen and Robert Cooper said. Please say, do you have a basis on which you claim the status issue will be opened?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57090	The word has a minister, Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57091	Of course I have a basis. As long as the state of Serbia does not recognise Kosovo, Kosovo is not independent. As long as KIM are not members of the UN, while they do not have chairs in the UN, as long as KIM is not present in all international organisations, KIM cannot be independent. Yes, the fact is, it is true that the great forces that have recognised the independence of KIM oppose the reopening of the KIM status process, but on the other hand we have almost two thirds of the countries in the world that have not recognised the independence of KIM and which I am sure will help us to continue to insist and get, to sit down to talk about KIM status because, I repeat, KIM for Serbia is not independent, KIM for a good part of the international community is not an independent state and as long as it is, we will do everything to talk about status again. What the result will be, it depends not only on us, but depends on many factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57092	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has the right to exercise his right to ask questions at this time of the session for a word? If not, we move on to asking questions, on the current topic in the order of MPs reported to exercise their right and from members of many smaller parliamentary groups, to members of a number of larger parliamentary groups. The first reported MP with the right to ask a question, MP Velimir Ilic, and after that, MP Zoran Ostojic. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57093	I want to take the opportunity to continue a conversation that was very incorrect by the minister, because I was very specific about the issues and I asked you to discuss some life issues. We heard the questions that were asked about status, but you didn't even participate in it, but you said very incorrectly that some government didn't do anything, and you did a lot. Now I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, when I was in the government and we worked in Kosovo a lot, as you say, you were in the government of Hashim Thaci and you were in that government, and we're in this government. We may have been able to cooperate, but there was no co-operation, because you were on the other side and you've gone through a lot of our jobs and you didn't even know what we were doing. I remember once, you were talking about the Smurfs, when I was coming from Strpce just in the evening, we were doing something, and I met Thaci when we came down from Strpce to the master's office and the column of the vehicle where they were members of the government of Hashim Thaci, he headed for a tour of some settlements where you were in etc. So we've been on different sides. Of course you're going to say now that we didn't do anything, and you've done a lot, but for the Albanians, you understand, because you were on that side. I accept that, you've done a lot to make this happen, what they have today. Now you've come here to balance something. How come you, I don't know, the Prime Minister knows that for sure. Maybe someone said you were very cooperative in that government, so he said -- this, you'll have one co-operative minister, to be a bond between the two governments and the two prime ministers. So, I don't know if you've defined yourself now. Your wife's still there, still getting paid there, and you're here, right? What kind of balance is this, how you handle it, I'm not the best way to do it, but you'd have to define what government you work for and what your goals are and what your goal is. I can tell you, Mr. Rasim Ljajic is now entering the hall, he's done more downstairs for Serbs from Kosovo than you do, I think ten times, as a minister, although not in charge of it. You're the minister for Kosovo. So, Mr. Bogdanovic, I'm very sorry to have to tell you this, but the truth is cruel, but true. Are you still friends with Hashim Thaci, are you seeing each other? (President: three minutes. Do you cooperate, as a minister in this government, and why not let us go to these sanctities at times? Why does he always banish us when we come to Kosovo... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... Completely legitimate, if resolution 1244 is respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57094	Thank you. The word has a minister, Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57095	Thank you. I really want to take this session seriously and deny you what you're saying. Yes, I was a minister in the KIM government, but from 2001 to 2004. At the time, you were not the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At Rexhepi, that's right, sir, and your party president himself, and at the time, the president of the SRJ invited us, Mr. Kostunica, to participate in the work of the government and in the work of the KIM Assembly. Therefore, we did not only participate there in the initiative, but by order or with the agreement of the Serbian state. I'm not friends with Thaci, but I'll try, Mr. Ilic, to make it possible for you next time, so let's go together, because I have problems, and at the same time I might solve my problem going south of the Ibar River, so we can go through all the projects I just gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57096	MP Velimir Ilic, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57097	Mr. Minister, I'm glad we kept one continuity in Kosovo with the minister of that government, this government, where you were all the best you know, Bajram Rexhepi, Thaci, everyone else, that god can't get in. However, I did not enter that political structure and your authorities down there, but you were when the foundations of the independent state of Kosovo worked with both Rexhepi and Thaci and everyone else who worked with them on it. You've hit those foundations, and it's hard for you to solve it. I don't know how this government would define a human resources solution with you, so maybe this happened so you wouldn't be on the negotiating team, it would be one of your advisors. It is humiliating for the ministry, for someone to come and talk about topics that are extremely important for Serbia, not for the resolution minister. So you have to think about it fat and don't be angry. I'm telling you this well-intentioned, but it doesn't make any sense if you were in that government to talk about this right now, and I'd be glad to have you bring us in once, some of our MPs, since you have good connections to get us through it. We couldn't make it to the Patriarch's entourage in Patriarchy, but we were expelled. But we'd be happy to show you what we've done, and we'd love to see what you've done specifically. You've done a lot to make the Serbs fight down there, to split up, to start that conflict Serbian-Serbian, to do a lot of things, to create conditions, to create one unhealthy. (President: Two minutes. You've done a lot of work on this, too. I was in your campaign. Remember when you shared calendars... (President: Two minutes MP. )......................................................................................................... And when you dropped five euros from your calendar. You remember in Leposavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57098	Please, MPs, or I remind you, that the two minutes that the MP has been given to the Rules of Procedure, he gets to ask questions, so please do not violate the Rules of Procedure by not using the right for which this session has been called, which is to ask the question, because then the Rules of Procedure forces me to remind you. Minister Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57099	Thank you. Mr. Ilic you didn't see well, it was 10 euros. Ten euros fell out of those calendars as you say, I know what I was giving. It's a joke on the side. Believe me, I'm not ashamed of my participation in the KIM economy government, because it was a decision at the time, you know well yours, because you were a member of the DOS then, you even had your MPs in the Kosovo Assembly, who sat next to me, you participated in the work of the Return coalition presidency, and you know well that we sat together several times. Therefore, transferring me to participate in business institutions, at the time, when the state of Serbia was behind all of this and I can say freely that we have done a lot of things down there and helped people with these critical 2000, 2001, 2002, and in 2003, it was hard to survive and live down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57100	The People's MP Zoran Ostojic has the word, followed by MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57101	The lack of seriousness of this session is not only due to the quality of those who represent the government but also to the desire to come out with radical initiatives to meet, so all three topics are joined by Kosovo, and The Hague and military integration, and I doubt that they are happy about it. Indeed, who should I ask about these integrations, with the respect of Mrs Malovic, because I know that you will repeat your position, Serbia's policy, military neutrality, as is the position of all these in the Assembly, except us and I will not waste my time on it. I will use the presence of Mr. Bogdanovic, but I am sorry that there is no chief of the negotiating team Mr. Borko Stefanovic, I would have asked him, the other day when he was in Pristina, and when he saw Mrs. Tahiri, Deputy Prime Minister who is also the head of the negotiating team, that is normal, but he also sees Haradinaj Kuci, Deputy Prime Minister of Kosovo, and besides Kuci, there is Slobodan Petrovic, Deputy Prime Minister, the office and he will not be seen, even Kuci asks him, why you do not see the Serbian, Deputy Prime Minister. This is the government's attitude in Belgrade towards Serbs who have taken responsibility for their lives and are no longer listening to Belgrade. It's inconclusive this session when you mention that you've done a lot, three vans and 317 jobs. You for five years couldn't finish the trip of the Chaglavica-Laplje village-Grasanica, but Hashim Thaci could finish it, but the Kosovo government where Serbs sit. In Novi Brdo, you boycotted as an election and in past local elections planted a list in the municipality of 70% of Serbs because of your activities in Belgrade, local Serbs living there could not win, so some unfortunate Albanian became the president of the municipality. So, in the municipality where there are 70% of Serbs. These Serbs have the mayor, i.e. the president of the municipality in Gracanica, Strpce and another municipality. In Kosovo, decentralisation is essential, not Dinkic's. The head of the municipality is a great authority and is appointed by both the chief of police and the director of the hospital. My question is this, since you called for a boycott of the election this time, I'm talking about parliamentary elections in Kosovo, but you didn't even ask out, but you had your list, so-called. The Serbian list. The list received four times fewer votes than those Serbs living and taking responsibility for their lives compared to those Serbs in the government with Thaci and you in particular call Thaci's Serbs. Tell me, how much money did taxpayers spend on these Serbs' campaigns that didn't participate as in the elections, but actually participated. That's the first question. I accept the suggestion, the question, how much did the Serbians' campaign, which were essentially a Serb list, like Serbia did not participate, and in fact it took part in preventing others from taking responsibility to continue the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57102	The word is made by Minister Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57103	Mr Ostojic, firstly, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia did not have a list for elections in Kosovo. That's the first one. Second, how much did the campaign cost? Not a dime, not a dime, I'm quite responsible for that. The fact that someone doesn't want to talk, I will never in my life take the right to call someone Thaci, not Milosevic, not Tadic, it's not my style, I don't use such a dictionary. I don't have that problem, talking to all the people on KIM. I don't have that problem talking to all people who do well to the Serb community in KIM. Among other things, Petrovic, Jeftic and Nikolic and all the people living on KIM. I have pointed out on many occasions that every Serb and here in this Parliament should defend the interests of their community, because that way it does not endanger the other community. That is why I often ask those Serbs who participate in both the Kosovo government and the Kosovo Assembly, to truly protect the interests of Serbia. Excuse me, who would be here has members of all national minorities, starting with Albanians, Bosniaks, Hungarians, Croats, who would vote in Kosovo's government to abolish telecommunications to the Serb community south of the Ibar River. No one and no one should vote. We have to fight for our interests, as I said earlier not endangering the interests of another people or other community, as we did, the Coalition Return, from 2000 to 2004, we fought lionishly and it was not easy for us at all and we suffered many consequences. Therefore, we do not have that problem, every participant in that government and in that assembly, who defends the interests of the Serb community, will have support, not mine, but these governments. As far as decentralisation is concerned, you were talking about New Hill, Partesh, Ranilug, Gracans, Strpec. Are you telling me that there are really so many people out there in that election? Mr. Ostojic, not even 5% of the people came out, believe me. These are analyses of many international organisations that were observers in the local elections. I don't want to disrespect anyone this way, but those are facts. You have local governments at KIM today who don't know where their borders are, they don't know what their competencies are, what their competences are. It's not decentralisation. It's not the decentralisation where me and Mr. Samardzic fought in Vienna to be. It's not. If you have local self-government, let's say, I'm going to talk specifically about Ranilug, Partesh, Gracans, they don't know the limits and they don't know the competences. They don't have the authority. We've entered this process very naively, believe me. Unprepared. Then they didn't listen to our suggestions and our suggestions. I've had conversations with these people, and you know it, they must have passed it on to you, because I know you have contacts with them. I don't see that that's the way to solve problems. I agree that Serbs should do anything, wherever they are, in Kosovo institutions. We Serbs also have international organizations that help the same. Let's go in a synchronised, constructive way, not afraid to raise our voice and protect our community. Here's the latest example, two days ago in Gazimestan, where five people were arrested, we have a deputy police minister down there, we have a Deputy Prime Minister, we have many ministers left, and none of them raised their voice. Guys, I've been to that Gazimestan. Trust me, because you're wearing a Serbian flag, someone needs to arrest you. Well, I'm sorry, if that's the case, then where do we live? (President: five minutes. I repeat, not a cent, that there is no dilemma, we did not give for the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57104	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57105	You know what, that claim that Serbia didn't have a list, that's the same as saying that Serbia didn't participate in the war. But as Serbia went through the war in which it participated, so did the list in those elections. Five times less votes won than Serbs living in Kosovo who took responsibility, as well as a cent, so maybe that's why they didn't win, although I doubt it's a cent. But let's open up the question of money. Serbia and Serbia's taxpayers each year stand out on various grounds for Kosovo, 500m euros. It is more than the effect of Dinkic's law on local self-government. Otherwise, Kosovo's budget is less than a billion. Kosovo's budget for all millions and 800,000 people, including 130,000 Serbs, is around 900 million, and Serbia stands out for 130,000 Serbs, 500 million. You know best how they live, on a variety of grounds, I'm not just talking about your ministry, based on different foundations, from different ministries. Go and see how those Serbs live. It is not true that there is no authority of local self-government. Nenad Cvetkovic is building a hospital for Kosovo's maritime sector in Partesh municipality. There are great powers, and it would be good to open up a public debate about decentralisation here, real and fundamental decentralisation, to look at it. Tell me, how much money is spent on famous institutions? For example, there is a president of the Stimlje municipality, Glogovac. You mention the office in Gracanica. The office benefits only the Serb who owns the building, to whom you pay the rent in that office. What kind of job can a Serb do? Please, how much are institutions that don't make any sense? In the municipalities of Glogovac and Štimlje there are no 20 years of Serbs, and we have the president of the municipality and the municipal council. I wouldn't be surprised if we had councilmen sitting somewhere in Kursumlia. What are they doing? Why is that paid? In order for the Kosovo government to end some jobs, such as the Laplje village - Gracanica road, to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57106	Two minutes. The word is made by Minister Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57107	Thank you. Sir, I'm going to have to deny you. The state of Serbia in Kosovo and those who have been exiled from Kosovo and live here in Central Serbia allocates about 250m euros annually. That 500 million-dollar number is simply incorrect. So 250 million, even slightly less. Health, education, local self-government, public enterprises, etc., pensions etc., social benefits etc., etc. So we have completely accurate data from all ministries, we have a database and we can see exactly how much the ministry is giving money. But that money goes not only to those 130,000 Serbs who stayed in Kosovo, as you say, but also to those 200,000 Serbs living here in Central Serbia. As far as decentralisation is concerned, that's where we can go until morning. She's gone, unfortunately, she's gone, believe me. What does it mean to make hospitals in Partesh? Who are we building this hospital for? You know what kind of home of health we built there? That's enough. Well, we can't build a hospital for 1,000 people. (Zoran Ostojić, from town: 1,000 people live in Pomoravlje? ) Not in Pomoravlje, but in Partesh and Pasyan, as you say. In Pomoravlje, there is a hospital in Ranilug. There's a place in the Treasury. Therefore, it is not the way to look at it. I agree with you that we may be paying unnecessary people. That's why I disbanded eight local self-governments at KIM, not abolishing the institutions of the Serbian state in KIM, but simply disbanding, because we had a case where in Decan, Djakovica and Uroševec we had committees, we had presidents, deputy presidents of parliaments, secretaries, and by coming to the head of this ministry, I disbanded those 8-9 local self-governments, and in this way we reduced the costs. Therefore, I agree, there may still be unnecessary spending of money. I can't say that everything is ideal, but we're heading that way, in that direction to put down a control instrument, an instrument of responsibility for what's done on the ground, starting with the president of municipalities, directors and others. So it's our responsibility and we do it. It is difficult, right away, there is a lot of sabotage, there are a lot of coasters, we suffer a lot of criticism, which we don't say, we suffer threats, but, believe me, I won't give up on that goal and I'll try to make every dinar, which the taxpayers here in Serbia separate from their mouths, spend in one transparent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57108	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic. Vladimir Milentijevic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57109	Madam President, members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, negotiating teams in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue announce that a deal will soon be reached in the negotiations. The head of the negotiating team expects all six points of the agreement to be adopted in early July and proposed by Robert Cooper, the EU's mediator in the negotiations. What did Cooper suggest to both sides? First, to recognise the stamp of Kosovo customs, as recognised and applied by the EU. Secondly, Serbia should recognise Kosovo's registration plates with the designation of the Republic of Kosovo. Kosovo Serbs who do not want to use these tables will be allowed to get old KS marked license plates, which they had previously issued. KiM will no longer be able to use the former Kosovo city registration tables issued by Serbia. Kosovo citizens with a Kosovo ID card will be able to enter Serbia, and when Kosovo citizens transit other countries through Serbia at the border crossing between Serbia and another country at the country's entry into the country, they use the passport of the Republic of Kosovo. The agreement provides for recognition of the driving and traffic permits of the Republic of Kosovo. The telecommunications agreement will cut off the work of mobile and fixed telephony from Serbia and there will be an agreement on roming under very favourable conditions. In the area of energy, co-operation between the two electricity systems is foreseen to respect documents adopted in Athens. What kind of documents are we talking about? We can only guess. She didn't comment on the cataster and the parent books of Edith Tahiri. On the other hand, Belgrade's negotiating team chief said he would in no way, either implicitly or explicitly, recognise Kosovo's independence and that the purpose of dialogue with Pristina is to help Serbs living in Kosovo. I will ask three questions to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Are the solutions, presented by the head of Pristina's negotiating team, correct and imposed by Robert Cooper? Two, if you accept such a solution with such attributes of Kosovo's independence, who can you claim more that you have not recognised the republic of Kosovo? How do you help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija by accepting such a devastating agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57110	Are any of the government representatives answering for a word? Minister Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57111	Thank you. Dear MPs, you have been able to hear various versions of the media in the last few days, about what it will all look like. In order not to talk about it, it's a good thing the head of the negotiating team has arrived and he will explain it better, as he participates in the whole process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57112	Minister Bogdanovic used two minutes to answer questions, and Mr. Borislav Stefanovic is asking for a word. Given that MP Vladimir Milentijevic has asked three questions, I will ask him now that he has the right to speak for two more minutes and ask two further questions, in an additional minute, if he wants to answer that, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57113	I have asked three concrete questions, and they concern the problems of Kosovo and Metohija. It's a good thing Mr. Borko's here. We have a lot of unresolved questions. First, are the solutions presented by the head of Pristina's negotiating team correct and imposed by Robert Cooper? Secondly, if you accept such solutions with these attributes of Kosovo's independence, whom can you more claim that you have not recognised the republic of Kosovo? Third, in what way, by accepting such a devastating agreement, are you helping Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, provided that this is all true?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57114	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57115	First of all, I apologize for the delay. We were really trying to get there on time. We had some final arrangements before the round of negotiations. So we've explained it more than once in public. Lately, various interpretations of what is agreed, what has not been agreed, etc. come from Pristina. I think it would be wise for all of us and for the Republic of Serbia in general, not to fall into that trap of explaining ahead of schedules. I can certainly say that what Mrs Tahiri said is largely not true. Whether our position here is fully correct and in accordance with the Constitution etc. You will see very quickly, because we expect in the next few days that we have very concrete arrangements for three to four topics, as we have announced. What is certain, the Republic of Serbia and our negotiating team will do nothing to confirm the so-called The statehood of Kosovo, and the solutions will be such as to enable the normal lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, all of our citizens living there. There's been a lot of trouble here, and I'm sorry I wasn't here when Professor Samardzic brought up some of the things I think we should answer, so I'd like to explain it in more detail afterwards. What is certain is that people from Kosovo and Metohija will not be able to use so-called. Kosovo passports, that's what I can say. I can also say that it will not be possible to corrode the registration plates of the Republic of Kosovo, with the coat of arms of Kosovo. There will be some solutions that, I'm sure, part of our opposition will not be good, but I'm also sure you understand very well, no matter what you're saying here, what a real situation is in Kosovo and Metohija, the situation we've all come into together. In doing so, I do not want to point out anyone's responsibility, but I must underline that we have had a number of things ahead of us that are, for some reason, unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. Be assured, and you will see, that we have chosen those who are least unfavourable in our interests. In any case, I will also come to the negotiating team again before you, in the form in which you ask me, so either on the tide or on the Committee or both, to explain in detail what we have agreed, which is very important to your court and what you have to say about it. Of course neither these negotiations are the recognition of Kosovo nor the solutions to Kosovo's recognition, nor did we in any way give confirmation of the so-called. Kosovo's statehood, neither EULEX's arrival in Kosovo is the beginning of recognition of Kosovo, nor are talks with Pristina recognition of Kosovo. Also, here is the thesis – that we are ready to talk to Hajredin Kuci, and we are not ready to talk to Slobodan Petrovic from SLS. I have to say that in the process in which we are trying to achieve our interest, our interest, we will talk everywhere, with everyone and in every place, except for those who are charged. There is no need to talk to SLS when we are already talking to their bosses, especially there is no need to talk to SLS in a situation where they also bring personal insults to the negotiating team and to the extreme question of the entire negotiating process, and they do not make much of the situation, as Mr Ilic said, that yesterday we have several injured Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, during the Vidovdan celebration, do nothing about it. It's just, unfortunately, one example of their inactivity. In that sense, I have no doubt. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija live in a difficult situation, especially those south of Ibra. I must say, as I said last time in the Assembly in front of this respected home, over 90% of our people have Kosovo documents in the south... (President: Five minutes, Mr. Stefanovic. )......................................................................................................... that the policy that has recently been promoted here has pushed them into Kosovo institutions and that we have done everything to regulate a very difficult situation in which they live and not to fight Kosovo's independence, but, unfortunately, to pull Kosovo out of independence. That's two completely different things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57116	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57117	I would have liked it, Mr. Borko, if that were all so, I have no doubt, I said that some time when this report is specific, but we've been very afraid and we're afraid of earlier experiences that something doesn't turn out differently, so it's in the elements of some Kosovo statehood, so that we can hardly recover Kosovo and keep it the way you stand for it. But well, some of their activities, the so-called state of Kosovo in the prevention of crime in Kosovo and Metohija, are seen by criminals as those of Serbs who do not pay Kosovo customs and Serb criminals who are struggling hard to preserve KIM within the Republic of Serbia and threaten to arrest them. I asked you this question when you were in Zubin's stream and you didn't answer me, so now I'm taking the opportunity to ask you the same thing again – does the Government of the Republic consider kim Serbs criminals who don't pay customs to Kosovo institutions and fight for the preservation of KIM? I also had a question for Mr Cvetkovic, since he has never visited KIM for his four-year term, has the government decided to give up KIM for Serbia's entry into the EU? Doesn't it seem to you that the government policy of the Republic of Serbia has done everything and makes it happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57118	Any of the representatives answer for a word? You have five minutes at your disposal if anyone wants to answer. Mr. Borko Stefanovic. I'm sorry your name doesn't stand in the signature, but I hope we can work it out in transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57119	We can...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57120	Excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic. I am now warning you not to throw away and not to insult other participants in the session and that if you remain in the strategy of challenging incidents, by demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly, by uninterruptingly throwing away, that all the provisions that involve and prescribe for all of us continue to violate, then I will be forced to give you the measures of caution if otherwise we cannot take part in a session whose aim is for those who are all sitting here, and these are citizens of Serbia, all that is unclearly made clear. So this is the last warning. Excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57121	Thank you. It is perfectly legitimate to criticise the government's policy by the opposition, I see nothing controversial about it, but we must be reasoned and consistent about it. I must tell you that I would not be sure to object to about 50% of the topics I now negotiate that the government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2006 allowed... You, Mr. Milentievich, know this very well. Now look me in the eye and say that's not true. If we had allowed our companies, for example, to register with UNMIK in 2006, I wouldn't be able to negotiate with Elektroprivreda and Telekom right now. We are coming into a situation that through every solution, Pristina insists that their so-called statehood be confirmed, and I am looking for a solution to regulate the work of our companies, and these are not just companies, but jobs and Serbs who remain at KIM. Now, is there anyone in this room who's going to tell me that's when it's cleverly done? Of course it wasn't clever. Let's be honest, this has nothing to do with parties, but we wouldn't have to negotiate this thing now and that I have to legitimately explain it to you, and you're looking for the betrayal of Kosovo. That's the first thing. Secondly, I think it is totally unacceptable to continue to use arguments in this higher house that someone has recognised Kosovo, betrayed Serbia, betrayed Kosovo etc. Someone on the basis of which they claim such a thing and what it means to recognise Kosovo, which are their arguments. Let go of the more valuable courts, and you have admitted it, and you have acknowledged it. What makes someone think in this room that we're on the negotiating team doing a hard job for this country less Serbs or less patriots than you? Based on which you measured it. I'm not speaking to you personally, but I'm asking, as I've come here to hear what things are, unfounded completely, said in this room. I beg your pardon, to transfer the debate to principle level. in principle plane... (Free Samardzic, from the place: How does he ask us if we can't answer? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57122	Please don't throw it away. If I were to repeat what was forbidden by the MPs and the participants of the session... Please begin to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also respect the Government's representative. The content of his speech is until he violates any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the contents of his speech have the right to declare it uninterrupted. If you have no patience and respect for the provisions to listen to the government's representative, then you're putting me in an awkward position to interrupt both the government's representative and remind you of what our common obligation is. Please do not consider your political confidence to be the reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure or that the power of your arguments is the reason for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. For all amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we are all available to each other in the future, but now it is what it is and now we will respect those provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Go on, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57123	Thank you. I apologize again. This is exactly what I'm doing because I've heard the questions that have been asked and I'm trying and I'm trying to answer them, but I'm asking you on purpose, I'm absolutely aware, because I want to hear it from you. It's not a dispute, but let me take three minutes now, so you'll get a chance to explain it. Basically, the matter is very simple, you know very well what we are fighting with and you know very well what the situation of Serbs in Kosovo are in. If you don't know, we're ready to share that information with you. But I also have one important thing to say. When we had politics in the government of Vojislav Kostunica - more than autonomy, less than independence, for which all of you were, tell me - what are we agreeing with Pristina which is more than what you were offering then? I can say in detail what you offered Pristina back then, and I can say what Pristina will get and what we will get. Therefore, let these thesis that this is Kosovo's recognition. (President: five minutes. We all know what Kosovo's recognition is and what it looks like, and this isn't it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57124	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Boris Aleksic, the right to ask a question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57125	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Stefanovic, you're asking the DSS MPs questions even though you know they can't answer and that's rude of you, very dishonest of you. Number one, I have to ask you, you know, one Western expert said in time for Tony Blair that it's a man who thinks world problems can be solved by the power of his stupid smiles. And that was a famous line in the Western media. Here, you've been here ten minutes, you've come, you're smiling. I don't know if you know, have you ever heard of international public law? If you'd heard of international public law, perhaps you've declared it a declarative conclusion, you'd know that recognition of the state exists according to the deura model and de facto. If you had read a textbook in international public law, you would have found an explanation of what it means to be a practical recognition of a particular territory, a practical recognition of a particular territory and examples of international relations. Examples from international relations were quoted in your absence, but we will again cite them – a visit by President of the United States, Nixon, 1972, China and a very interesting example, economic agreements signed by certain states with the Soviet Union in the period from 1921 to 1924, were considered a factual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. You have kicked the UN out of negotiations with Shiptar terrorists and separatists, who traded with human organs, according to Dick Marty's report, you have expelled UNMIK and are directly negotiating the CEFTA agreement. UNMIK was there when the CEFTA agreement was signed in 2006, now missing. What you are doing is throwing out the UN because the UN Charter guarantees the sovereignty of independent states, because in the final Helsinki act it is also guaranteed, because the UN resolutions also guarantee the sovereignty of Serbia and the SRJ and enter into the EU game, which we know who controls. So your task is, on the way to the EU's approach, to throw out the UN, to allow the EU to do its dirty work in 1999 and to lead to an effective recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You can talk here as much as you want to not admit KIM, that it's not an actual confession, that you're talking to them about nice weather and stars, but you're talking about the KIM passport. Whether there's a yellow pentagram or a black eagle, it doesn't matter if there's a yellow pentagram or a black eagle on the plates, it doesn't matter, because they're going to rephrase it as their mark - the mark of an independent Kosovo. When you start letting it into the rest of Serbia's territory, you will in fact admit it, you will order the authorities to do so. (President: three minutes. That's a felony, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57126	Three minutes. People's MP, I warned you when you first asked questions about the obligations of the Rules of Procedure. The obligations of the Rules of Procedure clearly, that they cannot be made clearer, say that the MP who receives the right to speak, gets the right to ask a question. The second time you use the right of three minutes and do not ask a question on which I can conclude or that you are not at all interested in the subject of a session that you are currently having a debate or that you deliberately believe that you are the only MP in the National Assembly who has the right to disregard the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Neither of them is true, except that you show a kind of pride in not knowing the elemental provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the second time I've warned you not to do this and not to treat the gestures of offensive species as chairpersons. Second warning, you'll have two more minutes. I am not even on boarding your colleagues, therefore, do not resort to arrogance to obligations that are equal to all 250 MPs. This is a session where questions are asked, it can't be simpler -- in three minutes a question. (Boris Aleksic, from the scene: You didn't hear right. You're saying you didn't hear right? Do you want me to read you the provisions or do you want to continue to throw you out of the bench, believing that you can put your arrogance at risk to further endanger the reputation of the National Assembly? It's your choice. I'm at your disposal. Do any of the representatives of the government want to comment since the MP did not ask a question? Yeah. ) Mr Borko Stefanovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I will punish him. ) National MP Zoran Popovic, MP Zoran Krasic, two final notices to be dropped. Twice in the best possible way I can, taking care of the agenda, I asked you not to use the strategy of challenging incidents, showing arrogance, pride and trying to send a message that some MPs in the National Assembly are not subject to any provision by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is inadmissible to believe that you have the right to do whatever you want to do at the meeting of the National Assembly because you have the power of political convictions and convictions. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57127	Thank you very much. I will try very briefly, I have raised the questions of MP Aleksic. I think the point is, unfortunately, that our recent historical events and everything that has happened in the recent past and everything that is happening to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are moving beyond the domain of theorisation and issues of international public law, although I seem to know it very well. What's the fact is that if Cyprus recognises northern Cyprus, that is. So-called The Turkish part of Cyprus through its factfulness, then we recognise Kosovo as well. If he recognizes China Hong Kong or Taiwan, then so do we. All the solutions we're fighting for and the suggestions we've made don't go any further than these examples. Therefore, in that sense, you can be sure, as you can be sure that there will be no signing of any agreements, an agreement to sign with Pristina means putting yourself in the same plane and giving confirmation of so-called. Statehood, we won't do it and then, of course, some parts of the opposition say -- well, you trust them on the word. In other words, everything this government does, making every effort to secure our interest, is never good enough for some of you. If you are critical, be reasoned or, better yet, make another suggestion on how to solve things. Don't speak so selectively, introduce the EU, and throw out the UN. Let me tell you one thing, every time we ask and insist, and through New York, we try every way possible to include the UN in these talks. That's not true. We're throwing out the UN. So, why is it that we have the tendency to negotiate CEFTA here? We don't negotiate CEFTA, Mr. Alexic. Kosovo is a CEFTA member as UNMIK in Kosovo. We are negotiating the modals that the matter will be resolved, that human, goods and capital transport can normally take place across the administrative line because if we don't solve this thing together in the Western Balkans, and most of all the Republic of Serbia, it will suffer severe consequences, and I would say the most Serbs in Kosovo. Therefore, to say that this is a practical confession is very far from the truth, not to say that it is completely false, especially what if you already want to say that I am talking to representatives of temporary institutions in Pristina, which is true, then you should say that I am neither a minister nor a president of this country, so that it can be a factual recognition. We're not talking about what happened. Kosovo's passports, as you said, are highlighted as one very hard request from Pristina, which has strong and significant and persistent support for the work of the international community. We have rejected this request, and when you evaluate the solutions we have made, take care of what has been pushed to be accepted, and not only what has been accepted but also consider the alternatives that have been put before our delegation. I think it's the right way to appreciate the results of what we've got if you know what we've been dealing with. Passports were definitely something we faced. For us, so-called. Kosovo passports are absolutely unacceptable. Don't listen to everything that is being put into the media in Pristina with a tendency and thoughtfulness to cause exactly these situations, which we now have in the Serbian Parliament, and such situations in Pristina are daily. Their parliament is doing great damage to the negotiating process and creating a completely impossible situation for their negotiating team because they themselves have brought themselves into this situation because they think that we in Serbia had unity, and they do not have it. (President: five minutes. ) So no one throws UNMIK out, Eulex exists in Kosovo through our agreement and through the approval of the Security Council. I'm going to say this one more time, and I really don't think we should waste time, and why UNMIK has become what it is now and why UNMIK is today a pale shadow of the 1999 UNMIK, don't blame the Serbian government, but think about who makes the decision on both the budget and the number of people in UNMIK. That, gentlemen, is the Security Council. Before you talk about it, face it, it is reality, and we have put the only institutional obstacle between Hashim Thaci and Serbs in Kosovo by bringing such an inefficient but necessary Eulex to Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57128	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57129	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. First of all, if you look at the rock of the note, Mr. Stefanovic, you will see the exact questions I have asked you, and it concerns international public law and practical recognition. As far as your answer is concerned, he is certainly unsatisfactory. On 15 April 2011, Sam "The Voice of America" conveyed that during the third round of talks, there was talk of freedom of movement, ID cards, driver's licenses, but so on. Kosovo passport. You say you refused Kosovo's passport, but you accepted ID cards - did you also accept driver's licenses? You're already talking about certain symbols that you've accepted and you're talking about accepting something, and it could have been even worse. We are only interested in accepting what is under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because you are obliged to accept what is under Resolution 1244. You say you're not a minister. We don't care if you're not a minister, you're a representative of the government. The government could have appointed anyone. You represent this country and that is the process of effective recognition that has been defined in the textbook of international public law itself. You can't deny that fact. You can justify yourself whatever you want, but that's what you do. To join the EU, you received an ultimatum to establish good neighbourly relations with Kim terrorists, with terrorists who took and traded human organs, who were sent to the London Royal Hospital, and the authorities of kidnapped and kidnapped Serbs. There are transcripts of the conversation, namely General Wesley Clarke and Javier Solana. It's your job and you're doing everything you can in that direction. Instead of strengthening the role of the UN, you say -- no one threw UNMIK out. You threw him out. In 2006, UNMIK representatives were there. You are now directly negotiating with the representatives of the Cypriot terrorist authorities, with the representatives of Hashim Thaci. There's no UNMIK. You threw him out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57130	Two minutes. Thank you. People's MP, you've reused two minutes, and you haven't asked a single question. (Boris Aleksic, from the scene: I asked a question for ID cards. You have to listen. ) With your insight into the stenogram, you will see that your behavior gives me the right to express a measure, without previous measures. What's the reason I won't do it anyway, which I can see is there's no way to understand the rules of the Rules of Procedure apply to you as well as to the other 249 MPs of the National Assembly. The word has been made by the MPs of the people, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57131	I am very sorry that today his Excellency, Mr. Sutanovac, is not present, who is probably exhausted from the briefing after yesterday's chat in this assembly. I would have a few questions for him about NATO and the specific "SNB" relationship of this government to him. However, since there are representatives of the government, perhaps they could explain why this "SNB" is no longer military paint, but abbreviations for the Serbian government's relationship with NATO? It's a sadomasochist fornication. "SNB" means sadomasochist fornication. The victim enjoys the suffering he inflicted and still inflicts on her the aggressor, with physical aggression now receiving its legal correlation. As we all know, NATO aggression led the establishment of a NATO state. Speaking of the NATO state, I'm interested in how do you, as KIM Minister in the Serbian government, judge the benefits of Serbia's entry into NATO? Minister Sutanovac said it cannot decide on Serbia's entry into NATO on its own. So I ask you, Mr Bogdanovic, what is your relationship with NATO, a team before you practically represent the interests of our southern province? You do not need to be well informed, so that in a recent visit to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, it was said that NATO enlargement poses a direct threat to Russia and that no one understands for what reasons Serbia would find in a situation that would pose a threat to Russia's security. Is there any interest in Serbia that on its territory rockets are directed against Russia? It's moral issues, as far as NATO's concerned, that I don't speak. What kind of image would Serbia have, are you listening to me, Mr. Bogdanovic? No, he's listening to Borko, so he'll answer. What kind of image would Serbia have in the world as a country that would enter the military alliance that bombed it, asking it to accept the amputation of the work of its territory, and the work that represents the cradle of its identity? What kind of people would be at war in the world for other people's interests, while ignoring the terror of the Serbs of the southern province? What kind of reputation in the world would a country that was the greatest ally - leave Russia and join an alliance with those who destroyed it and mutilated it? I must remind you, Mr Bogdanovic, that NATO did not bomb Serbia based on democratic principles or build Kosovo on international law. NATO's military conquest character does not correspond to a peaceful policy of Serbia, and democracy is, of course, only an ideological landscape in this case. A moment ago, you disagreed with the fact that your government since July 1st, 2008 has actually been leading the crawling process of recognising KIM independence. What's your role anyway, a team before someone else is proposed to the head of the negotiating team?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57132	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the government's representatives want to respond? No, I don't. ) Do you want to further ask two questions? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57133	This is more and more like it, Vice President, on "the theater in the house." So, there's Borko, he's on duty to respond and he wants to be in the role of Bogdanovic... (President: Please address with respect to the participants of the session. No one in this congregation calls you nicknames or short names from miles, but he speaks to you, or to you – people's letters or full names and names. The rules applicable to you apply to all other participants in the session. I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to insult the reputation of the National Temptation by bringing inaccessible privacy into the course of the National Assembly session. Here you go, two minutes and two questions. ) Now I'm going to allow this lawful privacy – isn't it really tragic that the state founded by the two saints, I suppose you know who they are, now has two political excellencys of which one must not interfere in his business, nor go to the territory of the southern province, whose interests are allegedly represented? Second, he imagines shooting a remake that day, poses for "the Enterprise" and lamentates on Facebook. Is that tragic? Is it tragic for a Serb to be arrested? In fact, there is also Minister Malovic, I would not mention her in connection with Nikolajevicka, the General Court for Violations in Podujevo has punished Todor Balasevic with 30 days in prison for, noting Serbia's flag, jeopardising public order and peace. Emphasising Serbia's flag has put public order and peace at risk. Balašević is from Velika Hota near Orahovac, with a stay in Jagodina. Yesterday, he was arrested at a checkpoint at Merdar's after refusing to remove the two-metre flag of Serbia, Kosovo police said. What kind of state do we live in, and is this really what I said to "the theater in the house," is our reality – sad and tragic, but true? We're still missing your S. Tycic, and we know who he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57134	Do any of the government officials understand the question and want to answer the question? No, I don't. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic. You have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57135	Thank you. The question is for Mr. Stefanovic. Before I set it up, only one finding that in this session that has been held so far regarding KIM and this dialogue that exists between MPs and representatives of the government, there is one thing left in the air. I don't think we're going to get a clear answer to the end, and that's the question of the difference between the way that was previously negotiated before there was a unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence by, or a unilateral declaration of independence and recognition and independence by a number of states and this as negotiated today. That difference is, first of all, when it comes to the subjects of the negotiations. Previously, they were representatives of the international community, under the auspices of Resolution 1244-the provisional institution, in this regard. What you call temporary institutions today, they call themselves, because of the many states recognised as the institutions of the state of Kosovo, or their representatives. From that one difference fundamentally arise the other consequences that we have shown here, which is why we have created the impression that in certain matters we do not understand one another. My question concerns military alliances. So first question, I won't explain much, I'll just ask them. So, the question is first -- what is the government's position here, since the Parliament's position is rather unclear here, what is the government's position on co-operation with the OkB, or the collective security and co-operation organisation that was launched in Moscow, to what degree are we going here and would the government suggest possible observer status in that organisation? Of course, we are a member of the Partnership for Peace, that membership was created before 2003, and that kind of framework for co-operation and the talks behind which, in the end line, stands the NATO Pact, but which is wider than the NATO Alliance has served us as the basis for the conversation. I'm interested in why there is no such possibility or, if there is, tell us that there is one kind of natural counterweight that should naturally be an interested country that has declared military neutrality. On the other hand, I'm interested in how did the organisation of this meeting, NATO together, take place in Belgrade? Was that meant for us to do so by members of the Partnership for Peace, by the NATO Pact, or did we volunteer to do so, given the fact that this is a great shame? Namely, holding such a conference in Belgrade, regardless of these other attributes I mentioned, is a real shame. You know, this country bombed the NATO Pact, and later the NATO Pact members recognised Kosovo's independence against Resolution 1244. We are not in the same position as other members of the Partnership for Peace, when it comes to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57136	Thank you. Do any of the government's representatives want to answer questions? No, I don't. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic, right for two minutes and two additional questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57137	You know, and not giving an answer is some answer, in the end, and I'm interpreting that the answer I didn't get from the government's present representatives that certain findings I made were correct. The problem of not giving answers to the Organisation for collective security and co-operation is practically a denial of that need, although you have not given a negative answer that there is a need to consider, I would certainly get a positive answer on your part. This creates a dangerous imbalance for Serbia, and such conferences are sent a message to NATO on our need to approach the facts of Atlantic integration, and on the other hand, a message is being sent to Moscow about distance from their political positions, which I think is extremely harmful to the state. I'm going to ask you two questions about which answers you should give because they're very specific. It concerns NATO Pact and KIM issues. Do you know that the NATO Pact is training Kosovo security forces, the so-called military. Kosovo countries? Is that a question that, in your opinion, poses a direct threat to Serbia? If so, do you open that question at any forum? So, the question is very specific – is this familiar to you and if you are familiar with either you or Mr Bogdanovic, one of you, is that a question that you open at any forum, including these so-called. Negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57138	Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57139	Of course we know and, of course, that in every way we express that it is very harmful, bad, and unacceptable to us. If that's the most concise answer, here, I'm giving it to you. That, of course, doesn't change the reality that, unfortunately, exists on KIM and for which we are the least responsible and you, Mr. Aligrudić, and this government and the previous government, you know that very well. But it is one reality that poses a potential threat in real terms, not only to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the remaining Serb population at KIM. That is why I also think that this process and this dialogue with Pristina gives us the opportunity to remove such dangers in our interests, among other things, to remove the possibility of new recognitions of KIM, precisely because we have this dialogue. It is one of the broader contexts of this dialogue and should be observed. I know that by finding out the things that exist in Kosovo now, we can go far, and we'll probably agree in the vast majority of these things, you and I. But what we probably can't agree on is what we do about it and whether we should do anything or not. We deeply believe that we must do something and be active in that sense and talk to everyone and that, of course, is not easy. Of course, there will always be those who say – it is the recognition of Kosovo, it is de facto, as I am told today and de jure, etc. You know what, if Cyprus is talking to its torn-off work through intermediaries, if Hong Kong can get into China, if Taiwan and China have conversations, if there are many other examples in the world where these things happen, where they recognize each other's documents, why would we run away from the only way to solve the Kosovo problem, which is through a direct conversation? You know very well, back in Vienna, as Mr Samardzic knows, how the whole thing was broken and who broke up the whole thing. It's not safe for us. They rose themselves from the table, went to Pristina, declared independence. All the efforts we made were directed to return them to the negotiating table. I think that fact should still be respected. What's the alternative to that trip? Can anyone answer that? Nobody. Because there's no alternative to that conversation or deal. Of course he's not perfect for us. I wish, believe me, I could get absolutely anything we want. I really want it intimately, as Mrs. Tahiri would like to get from us a lot of unequivocal recognition of KIM, as an independent state, and she won't get it. Among these is a large space that includes the remaining Serbs in KIM who do not know where they will wake up, regardless of what you and I both agree that Kosovo is part of Serbia. If we do it 27 times today, will you appreciate that it is and that I mean it and that it will help them? I'm not sure. As much as we yell at those passwords, be sure they won't help. He won't. We should all talk to them as much as possible, be there, talk, hear what's going on. Kosovo documents have 90 per cent of Serbs south of Ibra. Why? Because they don't know how to exercise their minimum rights. Don't say this government is guilty of such a situation. Do you know who's responsible for this situation? It's the story. Hold on, brothers! We do not recognise Kosovo! That's right. And what's next? What's the next step? Nothing. You see how you're going to pay for the electricity, you see how you're going to take a copy of your books, you see what to do when they come to take things away from you that you haven't paid the tax so-called. the state of Kosovo. Who? They want the parties out of here to go with me there, so we can stop together and stop someone from taking the stove? I mean, it's real stuff. I'm sorry to hear that. I wish it wasn't, but it's a fact. There's a completely different situation in the north. Does that mean we should give up these people south of Iber? (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: You were the ones who refused to help. ) It is not true that we have refused to help, but help must, Mr. Aligrudic, move on in some concrete proposals. We can't, look, we all agree that we have to defend our Constitution and congregation resolutions, but what next? How are we going to solve this problem? We just have to wait for international circumstances to change. I've heard that thesis, not from you, but I've heard it many times. It's the thesis that provides, and surely, standing firm on it... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up with the last Serb being sent to the Merdara with noble music. That's the status quo, gentlemen. I'm energetic against it and this government is against it. We have to do everything to prevent it, even if we talk to people, as Mr. Alexic calls them. They know it, but they won't say it. The northern Kosovo tribunals too, some have very elaborated fine jobs with Albanians. Why don't they say so? Why don't they tell us where the money this country's been giving since the time of the previous government is? The numbers are fragrant, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57140	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57141	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, these provisions of Articles 209 and 210. The Rules of Procedure give minimum space to open a debate on some topic. This is something extorted. We had one better option, we submitted a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, these Kostunicas wouldn't give us those four signatures. It is also a proposal for the resolution of the president of the Republic of Serbia, they have not given us signatures, and we cannot, within these points of the agenda, where there is unlimited space, talk about the difficult economic, political, national and all other opportunities facing the Serbian people. I will use this provision of the Rules of Procedure to discuss the topic in question - results of the Republic of Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal, open several topics and ask a few questions. It is easy to identify questions both Mr Ljajic and Vukcevic and Ignatovic are intelligent, unlike some who just chaired, so they can recognize the questions. What's this about? One Germany passed a law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the first member reads – no German can be delivered to that court. In 2001, you had kidnapping, delivery of Slobodan Milosevic. You said the dawn of all, nothing dawned. The Co-operation Act has come. What kind of cooperation is this? Sixteen, reportedly voluntarily, went for the mandate of the previous government, and the state is calm, passive, the government is silent, the government is rubbing its hands because the alleged defendants have already been written off as far as this country is concerned. Haraju NGOs, we have really mounted court proceedings and indictments represented by Mr. Vukcevic. We have protected witnesses whose state guarantees security. This court does not accept their testimony and the UN tribunal does not accept their testimony. Where is the aid of the state to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are accused? All states help because they have an obligation. Let's find some American in custody. The entire administration, all mechanisms, consulates, ambassadors, ministers, is all in motion to protect an American abroad. If he's in court somewhere, I don't want to tell you what kind of interventions they are. Countries that have been indicted before The Hague tribunal are helping the defendants, aiding the defence of families, etc. We have a plane ticket, and had it not been for one dispute in 2008 in the courtroom, there would probably not have been any documentation, as the file from the archives had only come through the UN Prosecutor's Office. (President: Time. What kind of cooperation is this? Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57142	Time. Mr. Rasim Ljajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57143	Around here, there are two issues relating to the same thing, which is the state's attitude towards the indictees, who are citizens of Serbia and how much the state helps them. The co-operation and, in fact, the assistance was regulated by a decision by the then federal government in 2005, which Serbia accepted as the legal successor of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The aid concerns that every Hague indictee, who has surrendered voluntarily, who is a Serbian citizen and is not legally convicted, has the right to a 200-euro cash amount of assistance, on 18 airline tickets and plus 250 euros, in addition, the National Council can decide that for humanitarian reasons it helps the family of the accused if his material situation is such that they cannot support the families. As for the other kind of assistance, which you are alluding to, we have co-operation with the defences of almost all The Hague indictees. So far, 1036 requests for different documents have been made and all 1036 requests have been answered. There's not one lawyer who can say something hasn't been done, and that's all we can do. Of course there were individual cases of dispute over some documentation. In any case, we stand at the disposal of the National Council Office for any kind of assistance. Another kind of help, if you're referring to financial aid for defense, we're not in a position to provide. The Hague tribunal is paying for the defence of almost all UN war crimes indictees. If you were thinking of that kind of help. If they re-apply evidence that they can't pay for that defense, and most of it has contributed. Therefore, we will continue to insist that we provide all kinds of assistance to our citizens regarding the delivery of documents and which is regulated by the Co-operation Act and this decision of the Federal Government of 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57144	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57145	Mr. Ljajic, I just skipped that. I told you that since July 2008, it's been regulated, but before that, nothing happened. You haven't delivered everything since July 2008. Why don't you get us the paperwork for General Acu Vasiljevic? Why don't you deliver that file? His Excellency, Minister Sutanovac, local NATO, does not. Why not? Mr. Ljajic, there is a law on the assistance of The Hague people who have been indicted before The Hague tribunal. Slobodan Vučetic has brought a temporary measure, so the law has been delayed to apply. The campaign against the law was headed by people who voted in favour of the law. Let go of those fines. I know those fines very well. This is where we talk about another kind of co-operation. Cooperation, i.e. assistance that must be given to every citizen in our abroad who is confronted or brought before a court. When did you raise your voice for human rights violations? When did you help the defense team? When the state considered legal situations through state authorities and took some views. You don't care about that. You're talking about a plane ticket and there's some paperwork that can be copied, and I'm very cooperative. There's a lot of co-operation. You don't want to cooperate, you don't want to help people who are being accused, because it satisfies your interests. You are representatives of pro-Europeans, found power, you need to finish your dirty work. Why do you allow these strangers to harass you in courts? Also groping under the table is some, as a sign of satisfaction, honoring the entire street because Mladic has been transferred to The Hague tribunal. It'll all dawn to us the next day, as soon as the young man surrenders and delivers. What happened in Serbia? A new requirement to recognise Kosovo's independence. What are you talking about? That's what citizens already know. Essential help should be. Legal aid should be. What are you saying, The Hague tribunal is paying for the defense? (President: Time. ) No euro has been allocated to the defence of Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Krassic... ) They haven't paid him a ticket since February 24, 2003, when he left for The Hague. (President: Time. Well, it's only my time, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57146	That's what you see, okay. Mr Ljajic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57147	As for Mr Vojislav Seselj, all the documents given to the D.A.'s Office were given and the defense was given and you know it well, and the legal team of the Seselj defenses. I'll tell you now. In the last two years, you've filed 14 other demands besides that, on which 12 are responsible. He is not responsible for this, in fact, responsible for this request regarding Ace Vasiljevic. The military's answer was that the object had nothing to do with the documentation required. The second thing, which was not given, which was obtained from the prosecutor's office, concerns the work logs Ratko Mladic, which the legal team requested, which was again received by the prosecution, but there are no problems, we can submit all the diaries of Ratko Mladic and the legal team of defence of Vojislav Seselj. As far as we're not helping anything, bring me one defense attorney to any Hague defendant who didn't get to the National Council Office what he was looking for. You can personally be dissatisfied, although I don't think you have any reason to, bring in a lawyer who'll say he didn't get anything he asked for from the National Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57148	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57149	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, citizens watching this direct transmission, I have a question for Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Mr. Stefanovic, I want to tell you in advance that everything I say in these three minutes really does not concern you personally, but I want to be principled, because what I ask is that I believe that a large number of Serbian citizens are interested. You said here a while ago and asked practically the MPs, even though they can't answer you, what you're offering. Now I speak to you as a man, in my own name, only the name of my family. I don't mind talking to anyone. If it's going to help our country and our people and one of our citizens, let's just say what the flag was yesterday and this morning we see that one had an index from some of our universities and I didn't see the state react. What would I suggest to you, though it may be too late for that? I told the foreign policy committee that your boss, Minister Vuk Jeremic, had been present, if I had wondered, would not have participated in these negotiations or a porter from the Ministry of the Interior. So, I'm not talking about you personally, maybe I like how you perform, how you talk, I'm not talking about that at all about your abilities, which I think you're qualified for, it was just a bad message to talk to someone from the Foreign Ministry. That's one. Two, you wouldn't have dropped the crown from your head if you had come here to the Assembly, even if you had come with a proposal from the negotiators and the platform of the negotiating team, and with that political, so to speak, capital approval of the National Assembly, even then we probably wouldn't have agreed, but then you would have gone to those talks with the approval of the National Assembly and your position, credibility in public and among the citizens of Serbia and political parties, it would have been stronger and perhaps those talks would have been more successful. Under number three, Mr. Stefanovic, do you think that I should not be reminded that I have not asked the question, that it is okay for the people's representatives, respecting that, personally, that you have come here, some things and I have heard from you, which I have not been able to read, but that happens once in a month, two or three, do you think that our entire public should know what you are there, respecting the secrecy of negotiations for success, we have experience in some countries and these negotiations, with similar problems, do you think we from Pristina so-called. The sources from the press need to know some details, so that some of them make cartoons, that we practically don't know what the truth is. What's the problem with coming here, past this Rules of Procedure, one month or in public, on some direct show, to be fair, respecting the real situation in which our people are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57150	Time. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57151	Thank you. First of all, this is a good form of communication. It's not my place to judge, since I'm a guest in this distinguished home, but I can say it's good when you ask specific questions. We have said several times before when we were here in the Assembly that the fact is that, formally, I am a working man at the Foreign Ministry, a professional diplomat who is employed in the competition, not put up a face and not a person appointed by the government at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, shows that he was able to conduct these negotiations by anyone who meets some criteria that are not related to the workplace. I've heard this criticism before. I'll remind you that there are examples in the world where foreigners run negotiation processes for a country. There are examples where people are hired on the market as professional negotiators to accomplish something. In this case, it has been taken care of to achieve maximum, in a very difficult situation to achieve the best possible result, not seeing if anyone works in the post office, the foreign ministry or any other institution. In the negotiation process, I do not in any way represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor do I personify it. If Mr. Jeremic were me, then that remark would stand. Therefore, if this is some crucial request and the biggest problem, then I can quit and go to work in another institution, then perhaps it would satisfy these critics that I most often hear from the DSS – why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not run these negotiations? I know you didn't say, but let's put an end to it. That argument is unfounded, incorrect and doesn't mean anything. As far as coming to the congregation is concerned, I completely agree with you, that is necessary. This is, associates will remind me, probably my fifth arrival in the National Assembly, of which the second arrival in the prey. Now let me say my opinion. I'm a regular on the KIM Assembly Committee. Most of the time on that assembly committee, unfortunately, there are no critics of what I do most. Unfortunately, even in the tide, as you can see, let the camera show, there are no those who ask the most in public very awkward questions. Where's that Stefanovic? Why doesn't he come to the assembly? Why isn't he talking to the congregation? I am today, ladies and gentlemen, the fifth time in front of you and all the honors of you who have stayed here and have come to pass one important question, which is a matter of dialogue with Pristina. I'm taking off your hat. Then explain to your party colleagues that they move a little bit from the media and come to the Assembly Hall or committee, and talk to me. I'm ready at any moment to come before the MPs. We have absolutely nothing to hide. You will see that our report will be detailed, that it will be fully explained and most importantly, that it will be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolution of this House. As for the public, we stick to the agreement and stick to the principle that negotiations in their essence and nature cannot be public negotiations. Otherwise we can sit on TV, in front of the cameras, and talk. We won't achieve any result, but I'm trying to explain to you, at least from principle, what will be the solution. What Mrs. Tahiri did in Pristina is a big minus for them, a big car naked and a big problem they've created, and believe that's why they're in a severe blow and they're under criticism. Why are they doing this? Because they have a terrible pressure on their public and their parliament, one deep misunderstanding, because in Pristina everyone thinks that what we are doing here is solely in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and that our team is superior and superior in this process. If that's what Albanian MPs and Albanian analysts think, I have to constantly explain that we do not recognise Kosovo, that this is not a recognition of Kosovo, that we do not sign anything, that we do not recognise Kosovo passports, but that is not enough for some here, but rather from the assumption – you are a member of the DS, you work for Boris Tadic, so you are a traitor. That rhetoric must be thrown out of our political lives. That's inappropriate, incorrect, for me offensive, for me personally and for my associates, many of whom are completely extra-party personalities. The public will be informed... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But the public isn't in the arena, because the public means that we have to fight what's right. You'll see that the solutions we achieve, I tell you in advance, with full responsibility... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in Pristina will be presented in a diametrically opposite way from how we're going to present it and how you're going to read it here, but it's normal. They need their own public to die because of the solutions that come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57152	You have the word, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57153	Mr. Stefanovic, I think I've asked questions very toleranceally and correctly and given an explanation for the questions I've asked you. If you wanted to give this applause in response to me, it's your right and this is politics. Maybe I'm a naive, one of millions of naive Serbs who think KiM, if you want me to tell you openly, is not only the attitude of the Serbs with KIM. It concerns all Serbs in the world. Therefore, you see your responsibility. I don't see what I deserve to be rhetorical, nor did I mention those ugly expressions, nor do I measure someone's patriotism, I just wanted to ask you some questions, as you said - to suggest. Let's just say that my opinion was respected, I would say at the top of the state when the fake state of KIM called elections to not indirectly encourage Serbs to go to these elections, but to tell them decisively – don't go to those elections, it's not your country. Your country is Serbia. Instead of saying - go there and continue to receive salaries from Serbia's budget and participate in other countries' elections. That's my opinion and my proposal for next. The next election will come. Because if they could for 10.15 years boycott the elections organised by the state of Serbia, which were more tolerant and democratic than theirs, so they achieved what they had achieved, is that not a science for us? As for the public, Mr. Stefanovic, of course, I didn't mean a direct transmission. I thought it made it easier for you to talk more about some, as you've suggested today, topics that we don't know from so-called. Pristina media. It's never much to talk about kim and this topic and what I want to tell you and to make it easy for you, it's not true that they don't matter. It is very important that you negotiate and do not trust anyone from the EU who tells you that they do not matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57154	National MP Bozidar Delic has a word. You can take five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57155	Thank you. Thank you. I agree with you, of course it's about boundaries. If no border were important, no one would declare Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Then they say -- well, the secession of Serbia is fine, but it's not right to split Kosovo, as you heard thesis. Very interesting. So I agree with you. I didn't mean to. I totally understood your question, and I'm grateful you asked him. You made it possible for me to give a broader answer to other things that aren't exactly something you said. So it was just in that sense. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57156	National MP, Vice President Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57157	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the Ministry, fellow Members of the People's Parliament. When the SRS asked us today to discuss the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the military alliances and when it requested that the president of the state, the prime minister, the foreign minister and the defence minister turn to us here, is precisely because they are the only people who can absolutely give us concrete answers on these issues. And you, Madam Chairman, should in any case inform the President of the State that there is such an initiative, and I do not think you have the right to appeal to members of our Rules of Procedure and to say that there is no legal basis for the President of the State to come to the Assembly. We are representatives of the people, and what we wanted here today to ask the president of the state and how this is about our issue. It is precisely because the president of the state has signed a SOFA agreement with Condoleezza Rice, and this SOFA agreement is affecting important issues of the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and relations with the NATO Pact. I don't know who can give us answers to these questions today. You, too, know about an initiative that has existed for two years. It's about organising a collective security agreement. Perhaps this issue would not have been asked at all if this Assembly and all other state bodies had adhered to the resolutions of this Assembly since 2007, when we said that the Republic of Serbia was militaryly neutral. But on the other hand, we have then that the government of the Republic of Serbia, individual ministers, or even one state secretary, signed three agreements with NATO, and the president of the state also signed an agreement with NATO. Meanwhile, our mission to NATO has been formed. Yesterday in this assembly, when he was Minister of Defense, I said this Assembly applied double standards. So I'm going to ask questions, but I don't know who can answer. Madam President, since people from the government are scheduled to speak here today, you know that four times in the Republic of Serbia there was also a vice president of the Russian Duma who was interested in these issues. You, too, know that we are here... (President: Time. You're entitled to two more minutes. Here you go. ) Then I must ask the most concrete question, so I expect the gentleman to at least answer in writing. All agreements with the NATO Pact, other than the Sofa Agreement, signed by the president, were signed by ministers or members of the government. Is the government aware that, after all these agreements, it won't matter at all whether we're a formal member of the NATO Pact or not? The second question – when will the Foreign Ministry give its position on the ODKB? Since in this assembly, often responsibility, when we want to form a parliamentary delegation, which in my opinion has nothing to do with the MIP, always shifts the ball to the MIP. When will it give an opinion that we could once here in the Assembly form that delegation? Those were questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57158	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honored guests, I would like to point out that we have two opportunities, here for the second time we talk about such key topics, that the request of the SRS Parliament Club, and what I would like to make as a criticism and a request when we have a session of this particular home, not a public debate, to take a position, a platform and all of these issues that the SRS Parliament Club today has initiated, and especially I am interested in these questions about the KIM problem, so that I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia's initiative, that, in the nearest time, this session be scheduled, so that our ministers and our government and those on the negotiating team can represent exactly those interests that the National Assembly adopt, and indeed through statements, that they use this resolution and call on the Constitution. What I would like to point out is to remind the gentlemen that they have also assured us of the positiveness of the EULEX mission, those six points and the status of neutrality, and that it will be a improvement for the Serb people in the KIM area. Then we made one big mistake, a catastrophic mistake, we minimized the role of UNMIK and SB, and we maximised the role, and we actually transferred all the work to EULEX, and I think that this mission has shown that it has not realised any of these points, and that it is not status neutral, and that the government, as it has given consent to her coming to Kosovo, should, make a decision to abolish the confidence of that mission and to restore the mission of the SB, i.e. UNMIK, to take over, because the total failure of this EULEX mission is in KIM space. Another question, which I would like to ask, Mr Borko Stefanovic, when you government gentlemen will stop convincing us Serbs in the KIM area, that we are better off living under the authority of Thaci than under Tadic. Why do you always convince us that we need to build the Ship's institutions and tear down our own? I am responsible for telling you that the Serbs and the Serb people, there will be as many strong Serbian institutions in the KIM area. And in the end, about the negotiations, the interesting thing again, about six points, again, one big scam and one big betrayal, and especially the word freedom of movement. I'm reading your statement yesterday that with this agreement, you will achieve that Serbs can move across the entire KIM territory. I'm responsible for telling you that even the Shiplars can't move through KIM territory. International forces can't move either, let alone Serbs moving around the KIM territory. So neither Shipari nor members of the international force can move freely. Then how are we supposed to exercise our right to do so? It's a replacement thesis. It should enable the Shiptars to move freely on KIM territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57160	Who wants to answer? The word is made by Minister Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57161	Thank you. Dear MPs, I will answer this part of the question to Mr Kragovic, which is why we are forcing Serbs in the KIM area to live under Mr Tapi's authority and that they are better ruled by Mr Tapi than by you said, Mr Tadic. I don't know where you get that finding. Because it's famous, and you said it yourself, wherever we have Serbian institutions in KIM, we have Serbs there. Just thanks to these institutions, Serbs have survived and survived day and day. So the tendency to force the Serbs to live under the authority of Thaci is absolute untruth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57162	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic, two minutes and two additional questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57163	I'll try to explain as soon as I can. Through a few sentences that you put forward today by the Minister for Lešak, I am proud to have been in the "Return" coalition from 2001 to 2004 and I was a minister. We fought lionishly. We went to work with tanks, and as a result, we received 17th March and a new burning of Serbs and Serbian assets in the KIM area. Second, we've made 130 apartments. There are no settlements that don't have sewers. You've made half of it in the Brdjana settlement, and today there's no sewers, no water, no one's moved into those apartments. You're probably waiting for one term of four years to be enough to build a hundred apartments. We've disbanded eight local self-governments, and there are more, unnecessary and excessive. In the meantime, we've built four Ship's institutions. Is this confirmation of what I'm talking about? Yes, it is. This is evidence that you are forcing us to accept the Thaci regime, not the betraying regime of Boris Tadic. You also said, "On the economic side, we've done a lot." What did you do? In 2008, you said you saved $200 million. In 2009, probably 400. In 2010, 800 million. You saved up where? On the ground where it can't be saved. It is minimum money, minimum funds, but very necessary to help the Serb people in his fight and in his determination to stay in the KIM space. All those solutions that this ministry led with the Minister for Lešak have made very, very negative and are reflected in the fact that if this government ceases to act, then it will be better for the Serb people at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57164	Two minutes. Mr. Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57165	I must say that Mr. Kragovic always inspires me, indeed, very positive. But I'm not going to answer a question from the KIM Ministry's work domain, but I want to answer a few questions and the findings you've given. First of all, I think it's very important to say that EULEX is a mission that has been approved and approved by the Security Council. We agreed to deal with the trend of galoping the impact of force, budget and number of UNMIK on KIM, the Security Council's decisions, Mr Kragovic. I don't know if you and I understand each other well, but if we don't understand each other, I'll give you one piece of information. UNMIK's budget has been reduced by 76% and UNMIK personnel from 4,911 to 507. And now you're saying that we're responsible for it, and you know it brings to the Security Council that, as you know, our friends are sitting in. Thus, faced with the situation, we had to bring a mission that would stand as an institutional dam between Serbs in Kosovo and Hashim Thaci. And you tell me, if there wasn't one now and such, inefficient, and a lot of bad things we could say about that Eulex, what would stand between us and him? The other thing you said and which is absolutely incorrect is that these negotiations are a colorful lie and that they are the introduction, I think that's what you said – a crawling recognition of Kosovo, good neighbourly relations, etc. It's all wrong and I have to deny it. Because if it's true that it's a colorful lie, I don't know why every day dozens of Serbs from Kosovo report to me and ask us to include their problems in these talks? If they know that the colour is a lie and we're just admitting Kosovo, what is it they're all asking us to solve their problems for? As they ask of you, since you live on KIM, so do the negotiating team. Then how are we a colorful lie? Then there's something wrong. Then when I go to KiM, and I go often, those people bring out their problems, very openly, very directly, and I answer them openly. It's okay. You need to have a normal exchange of arguments and there may be doubt, but listen to what's going on, so you're bringing a court. Do not speak in advance; this is for sure or that. You can't know that until you see the result. When you see the result, I'm sure you won't like much, but that's because normally, faced with this situation. Serbs enter Kosovo institutions, have their documents. Neither is Mr Kragovic guilty, nor is Mr Bogdanovic, nor I, nor Boris Tadic, but is the life that is such where we do not have effective control over Kosovo and Metohija. Say it openly. You have UNMIK which is in decline and you have Serbs who and how they co-operate with Albanians and get two salaries and they're fine. They don't hate Thaci's pensions and salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57166	Minister Goran Bogdanovic, one minute and 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57167	Thank you. I was in a dilemma whether or not to report to respond to Mr Kragovic, but for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the public, I must remind Mr Kragovic, apparently he has no good communication with his presidents of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, primarily in Strp, Vučitrn, East, Kosovo Kamenica. I would ask him to ask his municipality presidents how many apartments we made in Strpce, Vučitrn, Kosovo Kamenica, how many apartments we made in Osojan. For the sake of the public, for your sake, Mr Kragovic, you know, in Strpc eight apartments, in Kosovo Kamenica 13 apartments, in Vučitrn eight apartments, in Osojan, in the municipality of East, 13 apartments. It's not just in the Brdjani and it's not just in northern Kosovo. Do I have to tell you how many houses we've done in these local self-governments where the presidents of the SRS municipality are? Ask them. But it's obvious that you're not traveling in Kosovo, that you're not in communication and that you're taking your flat rates lightly here, accusing us of doing nothing down there. And that's how we do it. I repeat, I am not ashamed to say this, because I know that we have done a lot in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Yeah, we saved 200 million in 2008. We saved both 2009 and 2010. You know how we saved up? Because we controlled the flow of money. No, we didn't take anything from the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, but we controlled whether there were double salaries, whether there were people that were dead and receiving salaries etc. Should the people who declare themselves or have returned, returnees, receive feedback and live in the Kingdom, Kragujevac, Belgrade? That's where we saved up, Mr. Kragovic. What was meant for Serbs in Kosovo, they got, but it was denied to those who had been getting it for years. That can't do it anymore, while at least I'm head of the ministry, it won't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57168	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57169	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the difficult or better to say, never the more difficult economic situation in Serbia and corruption at all levels of government issues the Serbian Radical Party wanted to discuss with the government representatives are absolutely the most powerful. So, we wanted to talk about the results of the Republic of Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal, about the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to the military alliances and the policy of the Serbian government towards the southern Serbian province, in the context of the open demands of Western diplomats that recognition of the so-called independent Kosovo is a condition for entering the European Union. Unfortunately, the President of Parliament had all this messed up in one day, and of course it's impossible to say everything we wanted to say, the other topic is that you governmental trained well, and then in that second answer when an MP can no longer suit you, then you're both rude and bold and you ask a question and you say whatever comes to mind. But, well, we are here to adapt to so-called democratic principles, and Serbian citizens see how much democratic principles they are. We've heard everything here and everything. We also heard Mr. Borko Stefanovic say -- I can tell what Pristina will get from these negotiations and what we get. Tell Mr Stefanovic – we will – we want to say what you are complaining about and what it will get, as you say Pristina, and what will be given to Serbs, or the state of Serbia. Do you already separate Pristina and Belgrade, Mr Stefanovic? Turn your head, but we're afraid that's the way it is. There was an interesting debate between Mr Bogdanovic and Mr Velimir Ilic. A man can only conclude – God, how nice it is to talk to people who know each other well. You've really said a lot about each other and said a lot about political action, and I don't know what you're proud of when you say you were in the Shiptar government. That's really inadmissible. You nod as much as you want, Mr Bogdanovic, but it's a stain on the state of Serbia, not on you personally, I don't care that you were in the Shiptar government, which your wife still receives today, it's not a subject, it's a problem for us what the state of Serbia is doing, what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing. Here's to not running out of time without asking a question, the question is whether your first condition for joining the European Union is looking for Hadzic or for good neighbourly relations with the fake state of Kosovo, and we know it's both. Just tell me what order it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57170	Which one of the government's representatives wants to give an answer? Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57171	Mrs. Radeta, I apologize for nodding my head, but I couldn't help but express my deep disagreement with what you said. So let me answer your question. These are not conversations that in any way introduce the so-called good neighbourly co-operation or any element of Kosovo's statehood. We are negotiating practical life issues that are largely helping Serbs in Kosovo, but also helping Albanians. That's why I said there'd be things that both things would get. If you ask me implicitly – whether the Kosovo side or the so-called Pristina side will, with the full negation of their statehood, be absolutely accurate, so that it does not later be that I separate it, that it will receive elements of statehood. We can't give them elements of statehood. We who are the strictest, strongest against any element of Kosovo's statehood. But what we're negotiating, it's primarily freedom of movement, that people can move freely, that they feel safe, that they're not stigmatized because they're Serbs, that they feel like they live in their country, because they live in their country, that legal property security is achieved in the unification of two cataracts of which one is illegal, counterfeited, that in this way they allow the return of property in relation to the parent books, that people have the right and the security that the data is uniform and accurate in one place, in terms of the transport and operation of the exchange of goods, to allow normal trade relations with people who live there. Does that mean Kosovo's recognition? It doesn't. You know how countries are recognised. There are various theories, I agree, but it's very well known how it's done. If Cyprus does not recognise the attempt of unilateral secession of its territory, we are far above that standard, believe me. Of course they do, and hopefully answer your question, we will enter a phase where we will regulate our relationship with Pristina. What does that mean? That means we'll regulate how we're gonna treat each other and how we're gonna live together. Does that mean Kosovo's recognition? It doesn't. Is someone asking us to recognise Kosovo to join the EU? Don't ask. Are there people or parts of governments or even some governments who would like to see it? There is. In the EU 22 countries have recognised Kosovo, five have not. The EU cannot have a unique view of this. I can't tell you fairy tales and not say that there are political circles, influential people and institutions in certain countries that fight hard to recognise Kosovo, even as a condition, but we don't accept it. If you hear some Bundestag members say something like that, that's their opinion. Is it the German government's opinion? Far from it. It's not far, but it's not identical and they can't ask us to. If asked of us, you know our answer. Now look at me and say, "You will confess." I'm telling you we won't. Who's right now, and who are the citizens gonna trust? Maybe they'll believe those who after 12 years have brought some concrete results that will help people out there, and then you'll make fun of it and say they're not any results. What's the score? Don't do anything, just sit there and die from being Serbs. If that's the result, I refuse, I'll tell you right away. You won't like everything we've done, but it's the best thing possible at that moment. I'm responsible for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57172	The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta, two minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57173	I didn't expect Mr. Stefanovic to answer the key question I asked at the end, on the order, whether to arrest Hadzic or recognise Kosovo's false state for a trip to Europe, but I repeat this, not as one of two issues. Mr. Stefanovic, if you're already talking about someone who's putting pressure on you, why don't you tell me who it is? We know it's NATO, we know it's EU members. For this very reason, we say that Serbia must neither go to NATO nor the EU. Why don't you honestly tell who's pushing you from the negotiating team, Boris Tadic, Cvetkovic, ministers in the government, etc.? A reminder for Mr Ljajic, when his colleague Krasic answered, to bring in a lawyer, I think of lawyers indicted in The Hague tribunal, who will say he did not receive any documentation he requested. Mr. Ljajic, I remind you that Vojislav Seselj defends himself, has no lawyer and cannot come for the paperwork, sends us off the team and you don't give us. So, you're saying why Sutanovac didn't allow documentation related to Alexander Vasiljevic, who was responsible for everything that was going on in Ovcara, for everything that happened in many places in the 1990s, why is he a fan of the regime and then and now? Vojislav Seselj wants me to talk about it, but you don't give the paperwork. It's good that Mr. Vukcevic is here, it's good that what the ministers were answering, above all Bogdanovic and Mr. Stefanovic, if you read the transcripts well, there are many topics, Mr. Vukcevic, for the prosecution of which you are headed. Two additional questions, both for Mr. Vukcevic. Mr. Vukčević, did you drink that wine with Kara del Ponte you were supposed to buy because he was arrested by Mladić? Shame on you. The second question, how did you personally feel when Brammertz touched you under the table?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57174	Two minutes, thank you. Does anyone want to answer the question? Mr. Vukcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57175	Dear MPs, first of all, I would like to explain to you the wine mentioned here. I never said I called Carla del Ponte, they passed the tabloids, so that's not true. It's not in my character to gloat on anyone's destiny. I'd be unfair not to say I was satisfied when we caught Ratko Mladic. I was satisfied, because I would be dishonest to do that job for five years and to be dissatisfied with success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57176	Does Minister Rasim Ljajic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57177	It's true, Mr. Seselj doesn't have a lawyer, but he has a legal team that we've been working very well with for years, I hope, despite these objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57178	Please don't throw it away. In addition to the rude speech you use, stop throwing away, and this is a warning to the People's Messenger Verity Radetti. After that, it is a criminal sentence. Excuse me, Minister, proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57179	I explained why no documentation was given regarding Aleksandar Vasiljevic, because the assessment of the competent military authorities was that the documentation had nothing to do with the touching points of the case against Vojislav Seselj. The third thing, as you well know, is part of the documentation that we handed over to the legal team, that four volumes of Vojislav Seselj's books were published, from the documentation we gave you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57180	Thank you. Since the list of speakers reported asking no more parliamentary questions, we are finishing work, in the day to answer parliamentary questions about the current topic. I thank the representatives of the government, Mr Bork Stefanovic and Mr Vukcevic for their participation in the session. We will continue the work at 4:00 p.m. when the parliamentary questions begin between 4:00 and 7:00 p.m. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since today is the last Thursday of the month and in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction, and shall, on the basis of Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The parliamentary question must be quite clear formulae on the basis of Article 204(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot take longer than three minutes under Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority and pursuant to Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply to the MP in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked and on the basis of Article 206(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. So, asking questions to the present minister or to questions asked by the MP in writing by a representative of the government, the minister, a member of the government, a vice-president or a president, takes three minutes. After that, the Government representative shall respond, if he is present and after that, the MP shall have the right to comment for three minutes on the answer or to ask an additional question, and upon receipt of that reply, the MP shall have the right to declare that answer for a maximum period of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly in the course of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replicas, without reference to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and pursuant to Article 216. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, by giving a change first word to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest group of MPs. I ask all MPs and authorised representatives, or representatives of parliamentary groups, to submit applications with the names of MPs who wish to participate in asking questions. National MP Velimir Ilic, in the currently submitted lists, is a representative with a least numerous parliamentary group, and has the right to first ask a question. Three minutes, MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57182	Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that I wanted to ask the question to the Prime Minister or someone in charge of finance and economics, and I am very sorry that today's debate is attended by two ministers, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health who has recently received the post of office, so I cannot now ask the Minister of Health who is not even in charge of this issue that I wanted to deal with, and we wanted to ask him more times, but I ask you to pass this question on to someone from the Government. I would like to point out, this is the 21st century, and we have been listening to the story for years, and this government, when it was built, especially when it was reconstructed, was the promise of the ministers and the prime minister himself that some things would be resolved positively. One of the first problems that has not been solved, gentlemen ministers, is to rebalance the budget for the reconstructed government. I'm very sorry that we've discussed one problem here more than once that's inexplicable. This government has passed a hundred days with its reconstruction without the budget rebalance being made. How do you work, Mr. Minister, when you got another ministry with this? How do you coordinate these funds? How do you coordinate them? How are the ministries that have been shut down, that are divided, that are connected? Are you all breaking the Budget Law together and what's really going on here? Another thing that is very important, I see that only 36 million dinars have now been allocated to the government for the elemental disasters that have hit Serbia. It is unexplainable that in the 21st century we are looking again at the sky, watching again whether the city will destroy villages across Serbia as it has now happened with several municipalities in Serbia, and in particular Arile, Luciani, Dragačevski end, Kruševac, Cačak, and everything from Drina to Nis. What are we gonna do with all the damage she's done? Do you know that for so much money you can't buy a crep in the village of Lisa, Wolfie and Dubac? There's not a single tick left on the house. Who's going to make up for that? A very important question I asked last time, and no one finds an answer – what are you going to do with the Mramor ice skating near Nis, which went and destroyed 17 houses and is now jeopardizing 80 more houses. (President: three minutes. ) If it does not intervene urgently, we will have damage to 80 houses very quickly. Seventeen families live under plastics, tents. (President: three minutes. People's MP, you used your right. ) Please resolve this question and finally resolve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57183	Do any of the representatives of the government want to answer any of the questions asked by the MP? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57184	I thank Minister Ilic for asking questions. On behalf of the two ministers present, I will transfer the other members of the government to the issues. As for the way the government works and the question of rebalancing and the question of how the funds are spent, there really is no problem in the way you represent, at least when it comes to these ministries, given that the programme is of budgetary character and must be planned in advance, and all the funds are defined in advance, so that the means for both science and education are defined, since you have asked for both of them. There is also a Secretariat of legislation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is responsible for the legal regulation of the issue. If it is a legal issue, then there is no legal issue, and if you think there is a budget rebalance, the government will make a decision about it when there is a time, when an assessment from the point of view of the financial situation is that there is a reason for budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57185	National MP Velimir Ilic, right for three minutes of comments and one additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57186	Minister, I understand that you have an explanation and that this issue is constantly being passed. The same is the answer – there is no legal interference. We have adopted the budget in this House. We have budget items defined. Extremely large funds were for investments in the NIP. The NIP envisions funds for the Belgrade-Cacak highway. It's not even a foot. How is it possible now? Where are the funds provided for in the budget? Where's the NIP now? Who manages NIP resources, these are huge funds? How could someone transfer it, merge it, if the Budget Law clearly defined certain positions and certain jobs? You're the one who just sat down and said that it had come together. How, for example, mining and energy, how you've divided a bunch of money, how you cut it off and said -- you, Minister, have these resources, you benefit from those funds. That's what parliament does, no one else can do. Why are you afraid of budget rebalances? Why don't you go to parliament and pass a budget law that will define certain positions clearly and loudly? As a MP when I come into some middle and they ask me, will the collector and the one that's scheduled in the budget work? I don't know. I don't know what you're up to. No one respects the budget law. Who is it that gives the vault a warrant to transfer funds? In particular, who shares energy funds, these are extremely large funds and mining? Who's going to do the remont power plant? From what means? That's billions. How are you going to distribute that? I guess parliament is making a decision on this and making the Budget Law. Who's gonna turn the vault around and say, give this minister 100 million, and give this to 20? Who is this person on behalf of Parliament and in the name of the law passed in this House, has the right to do so? No one's right. You can operate with a budget reserve, you can do something small, but big investments and open big jobs – how does one credit line now when it comes, of 400m euros, 200m euros, where do you put it and in which position, if it is foreseen by the Budget Law, go to a ministry that does not exist? How do you do that? Who is this who orders it instead of this parliament to define it? You know the Budget Law is a sacred letter. No one can break that. He has to come looking for a little rebalancing, not billions. No one can do that, Mr. Secretary. I'm very sorry that someone keeps breaking it, and you won't pass the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57187	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the government want to answer the additional question of budget spending? Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57188	Mr. Ilic, I apologize, I may be wrong, but I think these questions are being repeated, part of the questions that were heard on March 14th of this year when it came to the Government Act and the Ministry Act. The budget rebalance is made when there are economic reasons for such a thing. If necessary, the government will put on the agenda a matter of budget rebalances. About the way the funds are spent, to put it that way, there's no doubt legally. There is also an independent body called the State Auditor, who can and wants to establish everything related to the way the funds are spent. If the Belgrade-Cacchak project is not launched, the funds will not be spent. That makes sense. I can't spend on something else. It's not questionable for you or for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57189	National MP Velimir Ilic, right for two minutes of statement of response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57190	Minister, I know you're not in charge of this question I'm asking. It's true that the Ministry Act was passed, a new law, but no rebalancing was made. After that, he had to go rebalancing. And that's inexplicable. It can't be explained that you of the 30 ministries make 17. Look out, the Budget Law is about 30 ministries. How can the Minister of the NIP, who has certain funds, where certain credit lines are foreseen, when you take up credit now -- the other day we ratified two, three, five investment loans here, and according to the Budget Law, is scheduled to go to the NIP and is in charge of the resolution minister for the availability of these funds. There is no ministry, and there is no minister. Where do these funds go? How do you spend it? What position are they in? Who's giving the vault a warrant to use them? Who's controlling them? I understand that you have an audit and everything else, and these are people, if anyone tells them, I know the authority of the prime minister, the president -- don't touch it and they won't touch it. But tomorrow someone will ask that question. I remember one entry in violation of the Budget Law, which the government approved, one director got two years in prison. He was said to be an accomplice to the government in violation of the Budget Law. The government cannot have the budget, parliament is passing the Budget Law. Each of you honors in the government, but the government elects you, the government sets you up, the government controls and the government passes the law as you have the means,
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57191	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. After him, MP Miletic Mihajlovic. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57192	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I must indeed note that the atmosphere in which this session is held is totally unacceptable. The way the government behaves is a direct violation of Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which prescribed the government's obligation to inform the National Assembly no later than three days before this Thursday, before the day of this afternoon's session, which the ministers will not be able to attend this session. It is understood, no, therefore, that those who will be able to come, but those who will not, since it is understood that the government is functioning in a normal and responsible manner towards parliament and that only, exclusively, some of the ministers will not come. You're here today. It's hard for us to get any answers to the questions we wanted to ask, especially those coming from the economy. Mr. Obradovic, you tried to give Mr. Ilic a less formal legal answer with all your efforts. That's not the essence of this House's business. Mr. Stankovic had already been present in this situation once and accepted all criticisms of opposition MPs and in the meantime nothing happened, except that it seemed to me that he had begun to accept in part the work of this government that he had come to two or three months ago. Of course there are reasons to rebalance the budget. It doesn't matter if they're technically legal. That's my question, too. The parliament passed a law a few days ago that envisions a new budget commitment in Serbia's 10 billion dinar budget. Then how come there's no economic reason for budget rebalancing? Or, if you want to answer me otherwise, rather than the one you just tried to give, from which means and from which items will your Ministry of Education give up? And for Mr. Stankovic the same question – what money will the Ministry of Health give up, so that this pre-election card of the party that proposed you to be the minister, G17 plus, or the URS can be realised? Only in this year is 10 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57193	Representatives of the government, ministers. Here you go. Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57194	As you know, the Ministry of Health has a smaller budget twice compared to 2007. As you know, a million and 200 people are income-free and there are only five euros per year per person for health care. If there is a further reduction in the funding of the Ministry of Health, then I don't know how we can withstand all these activities. I can tell you that we certainly won't accept that, and we're going to ask for an exemption from all this stuff that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57195	National MP Bojan Djuric, three minutes to comment and an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57196	I'm very happy with this answer. Mr. Stankovic, these were actually arguments and LDPs and other opposition parties at the time when we challenged this pointless bill. I believe that any colleague of yours in the government could say that his ministry's budget isn't enough. In addition, if the budgets were sufficient, Serbia would look different, and the budget would not have a deficit of around 100 billion dinars this year, 140 or 150 billion dinars next year. Just, you know what, the government is a political authority, and the ruling coalition that makes up that government, before it comes to parliament with some pointless bill proposals, would first have to define its policy. Mr. Obradovic is a little longer in the government and don't be angry, with a little more political experience, so he obviously avoided the answer to this question for these reasons. I can't even imagine what would happen at the end of August, in early September, how the educators would try to explain in the announcement of a new strike that there was no funds for them or that there was no rebalancing, as it was a few months ago, and that money was scattered on this side. One more thing, whether you, Mr. Stankovic, agree or not to agree to that part of the budget that is directly, under the Budget Law, related to the Ministry of Health and through the reduction of projects from the NIP announced here last week, it is obvious that some investment projects, which are beginning will not be completed, both in the education sector and in the health sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57197	Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57198	Today, the Government passed a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and I expect it to be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia next week. Therefore, I am very busy answering all your questions about this law and education issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57199	MP Bojan Djuric, two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57200	I believe that in this law, in the best manner of this government, you have predicted that sentence -- to implement this law, you do not need to provide additional funds in Serbia's budget, and then next year, as well as all of your colleagues, you will face the situation that the law is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57201	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. No, Minister, it's the last MP in the section of the parliamentary session. If another minister gets confused, I'll be happy to remind you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57202	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, but since they are not there, I believe that you, gentlemen of the Ministers, will convey this question, and, of course, the matter will be passed on to that formal path, as already foreseen. In fact, I'd like to run for one question that stems from what practice is here that we're already doing this job here with you, gentlemen of the Ministers, that when we adopt certain laws, after a certain time, often these laws come back in terms of a supplement. We have amendments and additions to the law in front of us because practice shows in the meantime where weaknesses are and what needs to be fixed in that law and brought into line with what life is, which is practice and what needs and people and actions are covered by that law. This is about the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors that has been functioning in Serbia for a year and a half and I believe that, not only me, but also MPs from our parliamentary group, and probably others, but also a good part of the public that we can already talk about the effects of this law, carry out certain analyses and possibly make some changes and additions in terms of improving this matter that is regulated by this law. Of course, there are many aspects that contribute to this, perhaps not enough to take into account those historical aspects, for example, the first-degree court in the Mlava region, in Petrovac at Mlava, there has already been 135 years, since 1873 and the duration of a first-degree court in that time, since over a century, of 135 years, has already spoken for itself. The second moment that's so important, it's a territorial aspect. That we have, for example. in the municipality of Žagubica village of Laznica, which is a table and even more kilometers away from the headquarters of the basic court in Požarevec. It's an absolute dysfunction, which is manifested through what... (President: three minutes. ) I ask the present ministers to at least make some comments to give me the opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57203	Thank you. Do the Prime Minister and members of the government want to comment? (No) The word has a People's MP, Zeljko Tomic, and after that, MP Dragan Šormaz. National MP Zeljko Tomic has three minutes. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57204	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, only you two, unfortunately, respect this Parliament so much, not you, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning the Minister for KIM, Mr Goran Bogdanovic, gave the cream for this issue of my day. He said the government's policy towards KIM is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The question is for you, Mr. Obradovic, I wanted to ask him to be the justice minister to Mrs. Malovic. She found fit to come here this morning and be wise to be silent here, but to come now and answer our questions wisely she did not find appropriate. Synchronising folder A statement by Interior Minister, the SPS president, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic say Kosovo should be divided. I'll even quote. Dacic believes Serbia made a mistake because it did not discuss Kosovo with Albania, and that the distinction between Serbia and Albania, please pay attention, is the only real option. A day later, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, speaks. He declares: "It should not be explored in front of the idea of partitioning Kosovo, since it has long been a figure in the Serbian public. All ideas for a permanent settlement of the KIM issue are welcome." I remind you of Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not just on the preamble we all know, I'm sure of it. The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and it changes according to the procedure envisaged for changes in the Constitution, not by the initiatives of the Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Serbia, that is what I am putting in place. Criminal Code, Mr. Obradovic, Article 307. - who by force or another broad term, counter-constitutional means try to separate some part of Serbia's territory or, I stress, part of that territory belongs to another state, will be sentenced by imprisonment from three to 15 years. To join another state. We have here a proposal to divide Kosovo between Serbia and Albania. What is the responsibility of the highest state officials? I expect an answer from you, Mr. Obradovic. The question is for Mrs. Malovic, but she did not find it appropriate to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57205	Three minutes. Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57206	Mr. Tomic, it's not about any proposal, it's about Mr. Ivica Dacic's attitude. If you feel that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, you are the one who is the one who has the authority to report it to the authorities, and then they react, if they think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57207	National MP Zeljko Tomic, three minutes to comment and an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57208	I invited you at least to comment on the Constitution and the law that you voted for. But you didn't find it appropriate. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry it's you. I wanted to open this debate with Mrs Malovic, but I will invite you, in addition to the Constitution and the law, to morality and honor because you have sworn as minister, as did Serbian President Boris Tadic. I will remind you of what you said in front of the Assembly and in front of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This responsibility is social, political and moral. He's not subject to criminal responsibility. But the government's mandate runs out of oath. That's what the Government Act says. The oath reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge with my honor that I will respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia." Where is the cheek of Minister Dacic, where is the face and morale of President Boris Tadic? Now I ask you, what does every citizen of Serbia expect? You are announcing that immunity seems to be lifted for MPs, judges, ministers. Will they fall for that removal of immunity? That's very interesting. You can, uh, make a rough joke with the Kosovo government to play social games, marbles, hideouts, greasy photos, kiss and hug all you want. To sit under the flag of Kosovo. You can do all that, but under some other constitution and under some other law. As long as these laws and this Constitution are in force, you have no right to do so and you succumb to both moral, so, for God's sake, and criminal responsibility. And that's what every Serbian citizen should know. We have a case that top state officials play with the Constitution and laws, and for ordinary citizens, so on. ordinary citizens, that doesn't apply, so in prison there are many who have done far fewer things. I said what was the penalty in Criminal Law, I quoted it as saying. What do we do with that? Do you personally adhere to the law and the Constitution, Mr. Beard and the oaths you made? Do you think Minister Dacic and President Tadic are sticking to it? I'd like to hear your comment as Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57209	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57210	Mr. Tomic, you use hard words. In the case of Mr. President Tadic and Mr. Dacic and words that may be part of the insult. If you think you're right, they work in accordance with the Constitution and the Law, and if you think the opposite, go ahead, address the authorities, otherwise it remains verbal rhetoric here in the hall, which is intended for the third, and that is those who watch, those who watch this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You, if you think you're right, since we're working in accordance with the Constitution and the law and we bear the consequences of our work, if you think you're right, you go ahead, take a step, and let the competent authorities assess the value of your words and their fundamentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57211	National MP Zeljko Tomic, two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57212	I know, Mr. Obradovic, that thousands of people, citizens of Serbia, can file criminal charges against Minister Dacic and President Tadic, and go through with it. I must tell you that the DSS is expecting from the competent, and the competent prosecutor, Miljko Radisavljevic, who was able to respond to one question about the so-called. Politically, but now he can't do a drastic violation of the Constitution, of the law, not to say the oaths, it's something else. A spokesman for Tomo Zoric, we expect him to come forward with this question of whether in prison, Mr. Obradovic, there will be people who make beautiful posters like they were for months, people who sang certain songs, and there won't be... Where does the fish get clean from their tails or from their heads? It's a question for all Serbian citizens. It is heard loudly when a high church dignitary says, calls on the Egyptian script in the Republic Square in Belgrade. It is loudly silent when the said minister and president of the Republic are close to destroying, calling, destroying the constitutional order. That's terrible. Either the prosecution will do its job, or the DSS Department of Justice will consider it a ministry of injustice, the Ministry of Justice for the Justice Department, or it's a Serbian state, or it's just a meadow and it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57213	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. After him, MP Milovan Radovanovic. Dragan Shormaz for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, you two 10% of the government present, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a month ago, last May Thursday, the leadership of the National Assembly, i.e. The chairman, those who decide, have practically avoided answering the ministers' questions, i.e. to hold a session that day. The day before the session was over, a guard was brought in, an anthem sang, and we all went home, and then on Thursday morning, Ratko Mladic was arrested, which was a signal to me that it was known after all no matter what those who answered those questions, whether you knew where he was, answered the "user". It's obvious they knew, because if they didn't, we'd be asking questions here that Thursday and the ministers were answering. Today, a month later, only two government ministers came. I don't know how these two ministers can answer the question I'm going to ask them. I will try to formulate them, to both respond, because it is the work of the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, in my opinion. I consider it the same government, no matter what it's reconstructed, because it's the same government president. In addition, I believe that this government, in addition to being incompetent, is primarily organising an economic environment in the country, a better life of citizens, more jobs, the biggest problem that this country has is corruption. I've already spoken and reminded you, and I remind you, Mr. Obradovic, here I would ask you to remind Minister Mrkonjic that in November I asked a question about the Željev Bridge, until today's answer, and everything I set turned out to be true. The day today, although the contract was signed regarding the tender, no board was hit in the place where it should be reconstructed, a new Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad was built. I repeat, which is very important for the Corridor Order of the tenth railway. There are very current tenders for software, i.e. for information systems. And lately, here's this OSCE for the Assembly. Today, he wrote a single agenda about it, and I know of a case in which it is a matter of speeding up the reform process of the 2005 World Bank pension system. In 2005, the World Bank granted a $25m loan to Serbia for the realisation of the collection and pension reform project, the pension administration in Serbia. What's going on with that project? So, a tender has been launched for the purchase of the information system to which the project should begin to be implemented. It was announced in December 2010. The bottom of today's decision has not been made. Is it normal for a tender and winning bid, you answer me, is it normal to wait for the commission's decision for more than six months?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57215	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) In this case there is a word from MP Milovan Radovanovic, three minutes. Just a moment, the MP can receive an additional three minutes to comment on the answer and the additional question. When there's no answer, then there's nothing to comment on. National MP Milovanovic has a word, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57216	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, members of the Government. It's normal for every country to use the resources it has. Serbia cannot compete with highly developed industrial countries, especially in the car, or the electricity industry. We should use the potentials we have, primarily to invest in agricultural production and use those natural resources we have. In the area of energy, the Alexina coal mine was closed after more than 100 years of coal exploitation and after the 17 November 1989 mining accident, when 90 miners died. The Alexine coal mine has 27 million-ton reserves of coal, researched, very high-quality coal coal, and this is about underground exploitation. There are 13 million tons of coal in the Morava Cave alone, and six million tons in the Dubrava Cave. There is an interest in a domestic controversial businessman to invest in the opening of a cave. The proximity of the train station, the railway line and the highway makes it even more suitable for possible exploitation, both in the cave and in the surface. Also, on the move between Alexinac and the village of Sutotinca, there is the largest and most explored bed of oil shale in the former SFRY and in the present Serbia, with a reserve of billions and 800 million tonnes of oil shale and with a quality that is lignite in the village of Sutotinca, the site is on the surface of the country. There has been a contact between the state of Serbia or certain authorities of the state of Serbia and Estonia for years on the exploitation of lignite, or shale. Almost 100% of Estonia's production as energy is used to produce electricity in oil shale thermal power plants. A question for the government, or a resorient minister, and I think it is Oliver Dulic – since the Alexine coal mine, next to the Kolubara, is the largest energy potential in Serbia, is there perhaps a strategy or plan to open and start the exploitation of the Alexine coal mine in connection with the cave exploitation? Is there a strategy or plan in the Government of the Republic of Serbia or in the Resolute Ministry on the exploitation of oil shale, especially in the Attar of the village of Sutotinca, since this is about the possibility of surface exploitation?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57217	Thank you. Does the minister want a word? (Yes) He has the word Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57218	I would just like to tell my colleague Radovanovic that I will pass on the question to my colleague Dulic and ask him to provide you with an answer. That's all I can do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57219	Thank you. All questions raised by MPs who do not receive an oral reply will be sent as a copy of the stenogram, as a parliamentary question, clearly referred to the Government or to whom the question has already been referred. As a parliamentary question in writing, it falls under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Milovan Radovanovic. Three minutes to comment and a supplemental question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57220	This is a very important issue, gentlemen of Ministers and Ladies and Gentlemen of People's MPs, not only for Alexinac and the environment or for the south and south of Serbia, but for all of Serbia, since the once Alexinian coal mine with six caves was a great potential for producing high-quality coal that was used in industrial consumption. Given that the country is now in a major crisis, both in terms of economics, social and production, Serbia should focus, at least that is what experts say, on those potentials it has. It is unequivocally clear that it is an investment in agricultural production and the use of natural resources. One of the natural treasures is the exploitation of coal. We have an example of the Colubara. In addition to those abuses, which are a matter of competent judicial authorities, the Alexine coal mine, you have heard, I have transferred data from professional people dealing with these issues, available with really huge reserves of high-quality coal deposits with cave exploitation and oil shale parts in the Ata of the village of Sutotinca, with surface exploitation and the possibility of an entire chain of production, where the energy would be an oil shale as the basis. The question is raised between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute minister to answer on all these issues, because this issue is very important and very important. Since some local politicians from parties who are in the republican government and often raise the issue, we are opening the Alexine coal mine, and the oil shale, from the responsible and most competent place, can provide an answer to this parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57221	Thank you. Zika Gojkovic, a folk MP, has the word, and then Zlata Djeric. MP Zika Gojkovic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57222	Dear Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like first to express my gratitude to Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Stankovic for coming to this House today and showing respect for this House and MPs, unfortunately, it would be good to have a little more of their colleagues with us today, I believe that the debate would be better quality. I'll be very brief in my questions and I won't use any extra time. My first question concerns the law on restitution. When will this congregation finally see the Law of Restitution? It is unacceptable for us from the SPO that after the Constitutional Court's positive decision, we still do not have in the assembly benches the restitution law, especially if we have in mind that the Constitutional Court has responded positively to the Law on the return of property to religious institutions and churches. We don't know why the same law doesn't apply to citizens. We hope to see such a law in the benches soon. The second question concerns the law on opening files. Also, the question, when we will finally have a law in the Assembly on opening files and whether the government will forward the draft law to the Assembly, since the proposal proposed by the SPO under an urgent procedure did not get enough votes to be adopted, unfortunately. My third question is local character, as regards Sombor municipality, and concerns the Ministry of Economy, more specifically the Regulation on conditions and how foreign direct investment is attracted. This regulation covers local self-government with over 50,000 inhabitants and unemployment rates over 20%. It is encouraging investors in the newly-opened job, depending on the 2,000 to 10,000-euro area. Unfortunately, the town of Sombor did not find its place on such a list. I must say that all of us Somborians are unclear criteria based on which they found their place as citizens such as Nis, Zaječar, Kings, Jagodina. Of course we don't have anything against these cities, but we don't know that those cities that have received significant financial resources so far, they have to be in front of the Somboro that has problems, like all the other cities. I call on Mr Ciric, who is unfortunately not here, to review the decision once again and to make sure that the criteria that exist for all these cities exist for Sombor, and which I must say that he is going out on two borders and that one is going to be in the EU today and that the other is going to be tomorrow. That a city that has 200,000 ha of land in its property can certainly be a good potential for foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57223	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want to comment? If not, the word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, followed by the MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the first question I will ask is the question of the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the new Minister and the concern of economic diplomacy, which I have already delegated here as a question and received an answer that I am not satisfied with. So now I'm explicitly asking, in which countries does Serbia have economic diplomats or economic ambassadors? How much have they cost the RS budget so far? How many so far and what specific investors have they brought to Serbia? How far they have allowed businesses from Serbia to place their products abroad, i.e. to extract from the RS and encourage exports. Their concrete effects should now be measurable and visible in Serbia's economy. Since it is not seen in everyday life and overcoming the crisis, I expect a concrete response from the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, because we all remember a huge campaign led by a double diplomacy that only Serbia had an interest in and for which Serbia, apparently alone, of all countries, remembered to find such a patent. Obviously, Serbia has more money than it needs, so it can spread them around the world. The second question I ask is, as far as television subscription is concerned, so to the director of RTS and the ministry responsible for this issue, since all ministries are repacked, I no longer know which ministry is specifically in charge, I assume that the economy and regional development or energy, so - by which laws is the bill charging citizens with electricity numbers? First of all, is it true that three laws are broken in such a way that there is no contractual relationship between citizens and RTS? Just because someone has a number doesn't mean they have a television receiver. In the same way, you could register vehicles, because someone has an electric counter, doesn't mean they have a vehicle. So these are some things that are illegal. Therefore, complaints referred to citizens cannot be realised and I thus warn citizens, or I call on them to continue not to pay the subscription because it is completely illegal. The third question I have directly to the Government – why does the Government have such a disdainful attitude towards the elected Parliament? Do they really think 126 arms of alchemists are enough to survive? Every time we see fewer and fewer ministers who want to answer, not parliamentary questions, these are not parliamentary issues, these are citizens' issues that they refer to through the institution of MPs. I thank the two ministers who have come, but I always see those ministers coming who have the least to say. Those for whom we have serious questions and who have serious responsibilities do not appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57225	Three minutes. All ministers, joint efforts and representatives of the opposition and the ruling majority will appear. I apologize to Parliamentarian Sasa Dujovic, my accidental failure, since one of the MPs has given up, the word will first be by MP Zoran Ostojic, and then MP Sasa Dujovic. People's MP Zoran Ostojic, I'm sorry again, it's really not intentional.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57226	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, is this to make this look ridiculous? It's not your fault. I don't congratulate you on being here. But this is both ridiculous and sad. We weren't able to ask Borko Stefanovic before noon because he wasn't there. We had to talk to the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Not to spread any further. We've been denied three points. They've put together three themes, you gentlemen, radicals. Now the two ministers are here. I would ask "Serbigas" for a new 210m-euro debt, which passed when the transfer was turned off yesterday, was behind midnight on TV. I would ask various questions, various ministers, Dulic certainly for the hill or valley variant of the highway around Piroth, because that is the topic. What should I ask Mr. Stankovic? You agreed to be Minister of the G17, and you were Minister of the Army in Kostunica's power. Can I ask you about Draze's bones? You seem kind of professional to me here, whether Draža or not, whether or not the grandson is going to give up DNA, but that would contribute to the inconclusiveness and collapse of the institution of parliament. I'm not gonna ask you that. I'm not going to ask you that because I'm not going to contribute to the collapse of Parliament's institution. If I don't ask, you'll be quiet and I won't have two more minutes. Now I have to make up some questions to get two minutes. I don't want that either. This is wrong and this is the collapse of the institution of parliament. It is that it was a reception at the US Embassy, ended at two o'clock, Mr. Cvetkovic could have come here, the finance minister could have come here to talk a little bit about the money, the effects of Dinkic's law that DS voted. That would be funny to you, too, and I'd look funny if I asked you that. I'm just calling for this to never happen again, because it's the collapse of the institution. It doesn't matter what we call ourselves, what this is called, who the majority is, who the opposition is. This is bad for the state's institution, and what's bad for this country's institution is bad for the state. To fulfill, in the end, I'm three minutes out, I'm going to ask a question -- how do you feel, honestly? This has nothing to do with politics. Tell me honestly, how do you feel this afternoon?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57227	Here you go, Minister Zoran Stankovic, then Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57228	I can say I'm pleased to see you after a long time, like the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57229	My colleague I'll stay, thank you for that question. I thought I'd call you back, tell you something, give you a chance to take advantage of the other part of the time. Today I feel here like every time I come to Parliament, that I am among my colleagues, and if you want to help the two of us, then I would ask you to ask us something from the area we represent, because we are not in a position to explain, at least not fully, what our colleagues are doing. We can only give an answer that is common, certainly insufficient for you, that we will ask for information and provide you with from colleagues who cover the area. It is something that is quite logical in relation to the situation that exists now, because it always happens that one of the ministers cannot be there or that MPs have an interest in a question that may not be part of the work of the minister present. The answer to the first question is - normally and pleasantly in the company of you MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and secondly, if you ask something from education and science, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57230	National MP Zoran Ostojić, three minutes, supplemental comment and question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57231	I'm glad you're glad to see us, both of us, but we're here to do some work, to work, and we can hang out at the bar. When you get here, some law of education or health to defend, so let's debate, that's fine. You know, I've been a journalist for a long time. The government when it sends two ministers, like you two today, it limits us, I speak editorially. Now we can't ask. You say, "We'll take that question." I know you'll take that question. We have the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs on Tuesdays and Thursdays, then it is transferred by the President of the Assembly. It seems to me that, when she transmits, occasionally we get an answer, which means it's more effective for me to get answers to questions I ask other ministries. You're not here to be couriers, to take notes. After all, I don't see you writing anything. You'll have a stenogram later. I absolutely don't mind, and I don't want to congratulate you on being here, because it turns out you're some martyrs who made them come here and be targets. I'm just saying that we all need to think, talk about the afternoon of the afternoon, think about it, not doing it to ourselves, or to our Parliament. I have no question from education because it would mean that after they sent you, I can't ask about "Serbiagas," but I have to ask from education, and I don't want to. I want to ask for both tax laws and "Srbigas". They're going near the election, there's no problem with the tuition, you're not going to pick them up, what can we ask you? Mr. Stankovic, I could really just ask about those costumes and the DNA. So, we didn't come here to hang out, we got better things to do, and you and I are gonna work. If this is the government's questioning institution, this doesn't look like that institution. That was the essence of my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57232	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57233	I'll give you a chance to make another call. I want you to know that the government has not sent the two of us in any way to thump the edge of possible issues by representatives of the opposition or MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's our choice, here's my colleague Stankovic and I talked about being here with you today, because we have an obligation to be available every last Thursday of the month to the National Assembly at a certain time, and that was our choice, that was all the obligations, that is, at that time, here's my colleague Stankovic, we were here and it wasn't the government's thought-out act, the government's act, that two ministers come in now, so that you have nothing to ask. Of course, you're absolutely right and you can ask what you want and get an answer to the question, but given the circumstances, it happened that only my colleague Stankovic and I are here today before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57234	National MP Zoran Ostojić, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57235	I did not insult you, I criticise you that, as you had the choice and made and chose that choice to come, which others did not, because it is to the benefit of the institution of parliament, for the benefit of the government's questioning institution, it is ultimately to the benefit of people who want to hear some things that are vital to life by ministers who are not there. They didn't choose what you chose, and I say, there's no excuse, because parliament is your boss. I was at the US Embassy, the ambassador first welcomed the MPs, so Prime Minister Cvetkovic, because she knows the order. He knows who the boss is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57236	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57237	Dear fellow MPs, the first question for Minister Zarko Obradovic of his domain, is whether this year's scholarship quota for children of fallen fighters, or disabled, will be increased, under the conditions prescribed. That's the first question. The second question, referred to the Serbian government, is there is no real minister and it is about, on May 10th, I was in the village of Dragonyegde alone having a meeting with a large group of small farmers of agricultural cooperatives, who are fighting for the return of their property, the property that is privatized by theirs, and according to our same lawless, alienation of land, one violation and a fracture was made, when it comes to existence, a huge goal of farmers, above all. (don't get it). It is the villages of Feketiæ, Mali Ijdoš, Maglic, Agrocombinate from Subotica, Baki Petrovac, etc., a huge number of villages that I visited as chairman of the Committee on Presentations and realized that there was indeed everything there privatisation, these goods and agricultural cooperatives died. There's no economy, there's nothing that can reactivate all that. They joined together as all our citizens and formed the Associations of Small Shareholders, they as such initiated a large number of lawsuits, complaints, complaints, complaints, applications, and the other day they were outside the House of the National Assembly, and simply sought protection from their country. I'm now asking their name, what are you going to do to make all these crazy privatisations that have been done so, I have to be gentle, I can't call anything else, but as a rough robbery created over the past 10 years, and it's just being tested and the truth comes out once. That's another question. I still have time for a third question, I'm giving it to the Minister of Justice, she's not here, but the question concerns the Court's position. It's simply that there were several thousand military people who had paid their damages under the Law in administrative proceedings and bond relations, and up to a few months ago, the court proceedings came to claim their own, because the state was obliged, but by the position of the Casation Court it was suspended and the position is quite different now, and we now have the situation that another few thousand people are referring to a conversation where apparently on the same basis they'll be able to collect some claims and bring this state to you, because we simply know what the procedure is, an incredible position to accept and pay off what is worth to them, and we say to other citizens, we can't pay you because you don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57238	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57239	My colleague Dujovic, I can only say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we continue and it seems to me that in the past few years we have been constantly increasing the number of students who care about the state. We are trying to include different social categories of citizens in the process of higher education, to help them make the university really accessible. Sometimes we can't solve all the issues that are on the agenda by law, because the law can't cover everything that's part of life and all categories of people who want to be involved in higher education. I have to say that state colleges and how they meet, that they also help to get a number of children who are children of war veterans, or without parents, to be admitted to the burden of college without paying tuition. We run various affirmative actions and the number of students is increasing, but there's this limit called the budget, so good wishes sometimes break into the wall of money. In any case, we will try to make students as much as possible, because the goal of the country is to increase the number of people with higher education, and Serbia is lagging behind in relation to other European countries. One way to increase the number of college students and increase the number of graduates, to make the state create opportunities, if possible. At this point, it seems to me that we are funding more than 50% of the students in all colleges, for years, which for one country in this economic situation, in the context of the global crisis, is one major burden, but on the other hand it shows our endurance and tenacity not to deviate from such a policy, to create opportunities for as many citizens as possible, to have high education available to them and to be able to study the cost of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57240	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic, three minutes, an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57241	Of course, we follow whatever the ministry is doing, how much effort it's making, since we know how much your budget is related to wages and investments, and how much it's going to take to fund children who, you have to admit, are responsible, if not them, their parents, and hence those children, to help them. We expect, personally, that you in this year, and the next, regardless of the severe economic crisis and the exit from the severe crisis, that the number of children increase, because we believe they deserve it. I would once again draw attention to one past period, which is that we are rushing into the EU and all of us, however, have some close history and we simply have to understand that there is one category of citizens, who simply expects the country to have an understanding of what was happening in the past. In that direction, I would ask another additional question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Stankovic, to ask something from his domain, which is, military veterans, war veterans have a need for treatment, and there is nothing terrible about them being left at VMA, at the Karaburma Military Centre, in any case, military institutions, regardless of the reforms in health that are now coming together, and we still expect that VMA has understanding of the reception of war veterans, primarily of wartime disabled people, given that their injuries are such character, and you know it best, that simply this medicine that is represented on VMA, according to us, is the most suitable and somehow a sense of belonging... (don't get it). Is it still so, that all war veterans, above all, those who are treated with VMA, still in the process of being treated with VMA?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57242	The word has a minister, Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57243	In any case, you know that the jurisdiction of the VMA is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, but we communicate with the Ministry of Defence daily, and it is our tendency that where the treatment is started, it will be continued throughout the time period that is needed, so there are no deviations from that policy that we have applied so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57244	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and after that, the MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57245	Thank you. Good evening or good afternoon, Mr. Minister, both. I'm very sorry there are no Prime Ministers here today or any other ministers. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that what you are sitting here today and that we are sitting here today is not our choice, but our obligation is, and that's why the citizens are paying us. So that's what you should know. I wanted to actually ask Minister Dacic a question, but unfortunately, since he is not here, I will try to ask Mr. Obradovic, with the same subject, of course, because you two are here today for me government representatives. I'm sorry to hear that, but that's right. So the weather followed by a strong storm wind and a city the size of a nut hit a good part of Serbia's municipalities on Friday night, June 24th. It also struck Alexine, Arile, Luciane, Ivanjica, Užice, Nis and Cačak. The epilogue of this in figures looks like this: Alexinac for three days without electricity and all that goes with it, one day without water, 450 million damage on buildings, 600 million damage on agricultural surfaces. Let me remind you, Alexine suffered from a flood last year. Ariel – a declared state of emergency in the city itself, buildings in the city flooded, destroyed half of the raspberries plant of which that part of Serbia has lived for more than a year. The damage is 10m euros on the raspberries alone. Houses, cars, 15 million dinars are damaged in Chatitina. Together, at first glance, the total damage to the storm is about 40m euros. The government has offered 36.7 million dinar assistance. I have to ask who's to blame for the damage that occurred on that occasion. I'll tell you a few more facts that can help you. Predrag Maric, chief of emergency sector, in interviews that he gave to the media in early June, when practically anti-urban protection as a service moved from the authority of the Hydrometeorological Institute to the jurisdiction of the Emergency Sector, therefore, to the Ministry of the Interior, because he found service in a catastrophic state. He says, without rockets, without enough trained shooters, he had to get three thousand missiles, and he needs 15 grand. Now I ask you, gentlemen of the Ministers, when will the state and what dynamics pay for the damage to local self-government and citizens? It was announced by Minister Dacic. The second question - are there funds in the budget for these purposes other than these 36.7 million? What was waiting for the reorganisation of the anti-urban service, when the law was passed on time, I remind you, last year somewhere in September of the month, and when it is known that the May-June period will be pronounced, always known, it's not a novelty, that period when storms are possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57246	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57247	Dear counterpart Vojić-Markovic, for a complete answer to your question, however, it is necessary to wait for the relevant information from the MUP, the sector dealing with this issue. Because you mentioned several municipalities that were affected by an elemental accident and that's undeniable. You have seen, government representatives, above all Vice President Dacic, but other ministers have tried to be with people since the first day that it happened, along with them to determine the situation and the damage and to see with them how to solve the problem in a way that is most painless to them. The state won't be able to objectively do everything that was done to damage those days, and because of the city and because of the heavy rain, to make up for it, but I'm pretty sure that in the coming weeks, when we get a full report on everything, in line with the financial opportunities and these municipalities, and you'll get a full report on that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57248	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57249	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, the day after the storm Mr. Maric spoke to the public and explained that anti-building protection is not the only one and is not the one who is able to help citizens preserve their property from the city, but rather that it is necessary to ensure it. It is noticeable, therefore, that Mr. Maric's focus on the state of his service is being transferred to another field and is talking about insurance. He didn't tell people where the money came from. I'll remind you, Mr. Bradovich, of what you said that Mr. Dacic went to be with people, I'll read you what those people he was with say. The fact is, he came by helicopter and he wasn't even with people. I read to you what the citizens say: "He came here by helicopter after three days, didn't come to meet us. He didn't visit any destroyed fields or houses. What does that look like? When something happens in Belgrade... And so on." "We have no electricity for three days, about 5,000 freezers and refrigerators have melted. There's no food in the gardens, the city killed everyone. Who's going to react to that and when? "The next one says, "what kind of state is this? They asked with a comment that wasn't for the paper. Besides other devices, TVs were either dead or dead, so they were largely unable to get any information. That's how much Mr. Dacic was with people and how much trouble he was in. He's probably seen a lot better, 'cause he can see better from a helicopter, it's familiar. So the question for you is this - are there funds in the service reform budget, which obviously doesn't work, and what are they, if they exist? The second question is – in what time will the service be reformed so that citizens know whether they should look into the sky or whether they should look at their government?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57250	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57251	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, I don't think there's any need for that sarcasm. Mr. Dacic was with the English. If you didn't see it, they saw the others. If you won't admit it, it's his right. If you quote some of the citizens, and it's their right to say what they think about it, but he was there and it was among the first. Could he have visited all the fields and all the surfaces affected by the city? Well, of course not. Could he have seen all the people? Of course not, but he did what he could, he was on the spot talking to people. I'm sorry these citizens think so, but it's just some of the opinions about what happened. Mr. Dacic was and the government will help. The answer to the question you asked will be given by your colleagues from the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57252	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57253	I guess I'm gonna have to give the answer, 'cause I'm the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's been around here. Experts say anti-urban protection requires alongside stationary missiles, which must be in sufficient numbers and in quantity, and mobile missiles. You have to have enough shooters, and you don't have them. Mr. Maric hired 60 new employees, but that's little, and it's trained shooters. You need radar controls that need to work faster and more efficiently, because it's obvious that radar control has failed here. What seems to be a question for our famous minister is to use jet planes flying over city clouds and sowing. That's a big question – do we have it after all those games and parades our minister liked to see? What I have to tell you, it seems that the citizens have not seen the minister, because it says so in many media. He was in local self-government, probably some citizens were there, but he wasn't among the citizens. Let me tell you, all this stuff I said can only be done by one responsible, quick and effective government, and you're not. As soon as you're gone, the citizens will surely be able to be sure of another government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57254	There's no Minister's right to respond after the People's Parliament. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has a word, and then the People's Messenger, Olena Papuga, after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, mostly our colleagues today have said that this is primarily unserious that we have only two ministers today. I just have to say, that's not surprising at all. This government was not elected and appointed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but by Washington and Brussels, and it is perfectly normal for the government of Serbia to have this relationship with its citizens. But we have to ask questions, first of all, for the sake of the citizens and for the people who elected us, and I hope you will succeed, no matter what matters are not directly related to your ministries, but that you will transfer from the government what you discussed when it comes to our agrarian and our agriculture. In fact, a regulation on the regression of re-proportionals on subsidies of 14,000 dinars came out immediately after seven days of amendments and additions to that Regulation. Imagine, Ministers, the regulation literally states that the right to regress has agricultural holdings that paid this part of mandatory pension insurance from 42,818 dinars from 14 August 2010 to 15 June 2011. Do you know, not specifically you, but the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister, what's the calendar year? With this adaptation of the government, our agriculture has gone back even further. The previous minister had absolutely nothing to do in the first three months, until this supposed reconstruction of your government. He probably knew he was traveling. Dusan Petrovic literally cancelled all contracts concluded with the Ministry of Agriculture and had to re-contract. I can't believe he cares enough to write down -- Minister Dusan Petrovic. A lot of people couldn't get into their possessions because of the administration. They had extra expenses. I can't believe what kind of regulation you're making, what you're doing, and how you can all vote for something like that in the government. My men, call yourselves to mind. The harvest is in progress. Did you happen to talk about the price of barley and wheat? I'd like you to answer me now. Do you know what the price of wheat is and that monopolies will not only dictate the price of wheat, but our farmer will again be in such a situation that he will be in a minus when he gives the wheat to the Republic of Serbia tomorrow. Bruca and shame, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57256	Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? Yes, Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57257	With this answer, I am only giving my colleague a chance to move on, but believe me, I will gladly pass this on to my colleague Dusan Petrovic, so you will hear a very detailed answer to your question about why this measure has been approached. Dusan Petrovic is not a vain man to cancel contracts to sign a new minister, but there must have been reasons for such a thing. As minister, he will be in a position to explain to you, through the answers you will receive, and probably the next time he comes to parliament, if you and then you will be interested in that question, to give you a complete answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57258	National MP Dobrislav Prelic, three minutes, comment and an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57259	It would be a special pleasure for me, Mr. Minister, to come here to Dusan Petrovic. This is the paperwork that our farmers need from tomorrow, to fill all of this out in order to claim a 14,000 dinar premium per ha. We need our farmers to take a computer course and run accounting so they can fill all this out. I would also like to ask the question: what is the Agency for Agricultural Payments, which is its headquarters in Šapec? When will the 2010 commitments be paid, when are the heifers in question, of 12,500 dinars? This year, the ministry decided that these subsidies would amount to 25,000 dinars. What's all this about? It's not until tomorrow you apply for subsidies because there's no money in the budget. In continuity, we warned the government and the Ministry of Agriculture what would happen to our agrarian, and you didn't hear us, you didn't want to hear us. We warned of monopoly, especially in livestock and dairy industries, in the processing industry. You also didn't take us seriously. Only when there was a shortage of milk in Serbia, did you react. We specifically called and said Imlek was a monopoliest. So we also have a monopoly in primary agricultural production, where the price of wheat will now be dictated by "The East Point", MK "Comertz" and "The Victoria Group". In the processing industry, Matijević knows exactly when and in what part of Serbia is exporting a turnus pig, when and in what part and what little we have left on chicken farms, the tourus exports. Exactly 10 days before that, drop the price by 20%. I'm telling you from my best intentions, turn to the Russian Federation, because we're the only country that has a duty-free relationship. Look how our farmers now went when they sold cherries. They've never sold more expensive than to our brothers to the Russians now. That's what happened three years ago when it came to fruit and vegetables. You're boasting that we've received meat exports quotas. What are we going to do when our livestock is absolutely destroyed? We used to be a leader in the region. They want to help livestock and Minister Petrovic boasted commercial loans. Who's in a position to take commercial credit today? What's worse, everything, even if it was in a situation, can't trust this government, or these banks that you brought in, who are greeners, who are calling literally before and after noon, and from hidden numbers. People will return only when they have, when this government brings one real price level and that our farmer can live absolutely from his work, and cannot be conditioned by EU prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57260	Is there a Minister for Response's application? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57261	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of Ministers, my question concerns a media strategy that is current these days and I would like to ask the question of Culture Minister Predrag Markovic, but if you can answer me as well. Culture Minister Predrag Markovic said the draft media strategy would be in the Serbian Parliament by the end of August, but followed a difficult step towards passing laws stemming from the strategy. The new media strategy states that the state cannot own the media and that all media should privatise by 2016. The Republic of Serbia will withdraw from ownership of all votes, without delay, and no later than 18 months from the day of adoption of this strategy. There has been a public debate on the media these months on what will bring about a new media strategy. It was seen that almost all the participants in the public debate expressed some concern about the privatisation of the media, because so far privatisation has shown that many votes have been extinguished, that they have read in the languages of the national minorities left to the market, which cannot be good. The government of Vojvodina has asked the Ministry of Culture to reject this initiative that would directly jeopardise a high degree of minority rights, not only in the province but in the entire Republic of Serbia, as we know that minority votes do not exist only in Vojvodina but also in local media in Serbia. She insisted that multilingual media should remain in public ownership, i.e. owned by local self-government. So far, experience in privatisation has shown that privatisation and local media were not good and that the media strategy, proposed, would not bring any good. After all, there have been some claims in the working group that this privatisation of the media is asking us for Europe, but I would like to have a little talk about it today, that Europe is seeking full media privatisation throughout the Republic of Serbia. My question would be whether the working group and the media strategy will look as proposed and will the demands of media houses, the demands of national councils of national minorities and media houses be respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57262	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57263	Now I'm going to cancel Professor Obradovic a little bit. I want to tell you, as you yourself have stated, that the strategy and discussion is under way. While the discussion is ongoing, different proposals are possible. When the discussion is completed, there will certainly be an analysis of all the objections that exist. I hope they take one position that will satisfy everything you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57264	Do you want to use an additional three minutes for an additional question? Yes, the folk emissary of Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57265	The public debate is over, I don't know, I don't see that the public, in fact, that the task force was determined to lead and write that strategy willing to change something. National councils of national minorities have announced and various local media. I was in the province at that public debate, no one was satisfied with the team, let me say, with a draft strategy, so I'm wondering if this national media strategy is really going to change?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57266	Do any of the representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, the word has the People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, and after that, MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57267	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People and citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, I express my respect because you have come here, I will not say as one fellow thank-you, because we are all paid by the citizens of Serbia to do a job that we have voluntarily agreed to. I hope my questions will be inspiring enough and I'll try to get them out of your vaults so I can maybe get some extra time. Mr. Obradovic, recently former Minister Tomica Milosavljevic is on the issue that has been treated well in public these days, about spending money, about vaccines, about sanity that have never been bought and paid, about I would say health homes in Belgrade and not repeat, Mr. Milosavljevic said that these are all the decisions of the government that she made. Therefore, this applies to you, not to Mr. Stankovic at the time he was not a member of the government and all the ministers who were just, let's not say eight, nine years, but the last three and a half years. I would like to know what your comment on Mr Milosavljevic's statement is, how do you feel about it, did you vote for it as a member of the government and for vaccines and for this difference of one million and six thousand? I'm just quoting something that was in the media. And one question specifically for you two – do you know at this point where Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic is? Number two -- why didn't the other ministers and the Prime Minister come? I firmly believe you know why they didn't come. It is your will whether you will answer us and the public, because only if you two were there, if at least half of the government hadn't asked this question, believe me, this would say that this is an organized lack of ministers and prime ministers. You've been to the government session today and the government's over, as far as I know, and it's impossible that you haven't spoken to your colleagues. I'd like to know if you only sent the two of you on purpose. I doubt that this lack is organized, I don't know why, so far, there have been many ministers, some have liked some questions, some haven't, but believe that whatever anyone thinks about this institution asking parliamentary questions last Thursday in the month, a lot of citizens expect answers to some questions, and I believe that most fellow Members of Parliament are asking those questions that their citizens, who have chosen them, who voted for them in their local environments, and they don't have the opportunity to ask these questions directly as we do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57268	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57269	Comrade Markicevic, thank you for this question. I will try to give an answer, and I will retain the right to be corrected by my colleague Stankovic as a doctor in some of my formulations if they are not correct. As far as I know, and I think I remember well, the RS government was absolutely unanimous when making all decisions regarding getting the vaccine. I have to say that now from the point of view of time flow relative to when this flu epidemic was happening the situation looks different, so maybe some events are being viewed in a different light. I remember absolutely what was then, because it seemed to me first in Chačka, so it started out in cases of children infected with the flu virus and I know that it was a team led by Mr. Kon, that they were ambushed every day by the expert team, giving assessments, the situation of the flu and what the state needed to do to help the citizens. Also, the fact is that from the beginning there was a part of the people who gave a different opinion, that it was not an epidemic, that it was not necessary to access the vaccine, which objectively sent one situation, confusion to the public. As Minister of Education at the time, and even now, I was forced and not only to be forced, I think it was quite logical to follow the advice of the doctor, that if doctors say that children should not be gathered together, that the flu virus would not spread among the student population, that it was logical that we took the appropriate measures to stop teaching several times, after a few days and it objectively produced results. There was no spread of flu among that population. But I have the impression that this is a less important question for you and that the substance is related to the supply of the vaccine. The government was unanimous on all decisions concerning the procurement of vaccines, but the government did not decide which one of the producers was someone who made the most favourable offer. There is another type of procedure related to this. We at the government didn't have any doubts about the issue of getting the vaccine. The second question is why some citizens didn't want it, because you have the other side of the story, if the government hadn't provided vaccines, it would have certainly been by the public, and the MPs asked the question – why the government didn't do it, does it take care of its citizens, does it want to protect them, does it care about their health? Now the story is different because it's been a long time, but I know what it looked like at that time, and I know what it looked like the first days, parents ask that students don't go to school, and after three days they say, let the kids go to school, we don't know what we're going to do with them at home, and we can't go to work. It's a picture of our behavior. The purchase of the flu vaccine was carried out in the procedure that required it, and I know that we in the government were absolutely unanimous about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57270	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57271	The first question, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic was a member of the World Health Organization Executive Board in Geneva at the beginning of the month, after which he was on vacation by 20th and someone in this month, and is now in Belgrade and performing his daily duties. That's the answer when it comes to Professor Milosavljevic. Today, when the cabinet session ended, the prime minister said – the afternoon is the Assembly and I ask the ministers to attend the assembly session and answer questions. Why someone didn't come, I don't want to comment, because they have certain activities, let's say that the Pasulian meadows are being shot and that there's a defence minister with the president of the state and with a group of ministers. I wouldn't want to elaborate much further on this case. The important thing is that I'm here and with Obradovic, we'll try as many answers as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57272	National MP Miroslav Markicevic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57273	Dear Ministers, I am pleased with what you answer here and how you try to answer those questions that are not directly from your portfolio. Mr. Stankovic, I want to thank you publicly for recently attending the Tribute of the New Serbia Municipal Committee on Chukarica, not to advertise the Municipal Committee, but because the media, I don't know why they hid it and kept it quiet. I think that one discussion of the citizens present, as well as yours, was very correct and useful, and on that occasion you promised the citizens of Chukarica, I don't know there what is called their health care unit, home of health, promised an x-ray, seems Chinese to me. That's what you said, X-ray is X-ray, so let's make it Chinese, what's wrong with them. I'd like to know what's going on with that supply, that promise. I have no doubt that he will be executed. How far did it go with that? For Mr. Obradovic, I have one question that I think he is sure he knows that I ask honestly – what about the Serbs in Montenegro? I ask him as Minister of Education – what our government is doing, or the Ministry of Education, to protect the Serbs in Montenegro, because they are subjected, as far as I can see from the media and conversations with our mutual friends and one pressure to accept the Montenegrin language, although more, according to unofficial data on the list in Montenegro, more than 50% of citizens have come forward to speak Serbian. What is it possible for our government, or the Ministry of Education, to undertake that our children in Montenegro, children of Serbian nationality, have the opportunity to speak in their native language spoken by their parents and grandfathers? So what are our general political relations between Serbia and Montenegro, that our government, so to speak, intervenes and enables whether they are free textbooks, whether we have the means to do so enough and whether there are any compensations, any plans, any intention to help citizens of Serbia's nationality in Montenegro on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57274	Minister Zoran Stankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57275	You're absolutely right. In that tribune I attended as a citizen, and answered as a health minister, Chukarica's House of Health presented an amazing piece of information that, say, before 1960 had three x-rays, three radiologists and a highly developed radiology service, and today have an X-ray that is over 40 years old and has one radiologist and that they are forced to organize their work at a very low level. So then I said, given that it's 450 thousand inhabitants who are gravitating towards the House of Health of Chukarica, that we get from a donation from the Chinese five X-ray apparatus and that one X-ray machine, due to the number of inhabitants, will be allocated to the House of Health of Chukarica, and I remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57276	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57277	counterpart Markicevic, I think we all expect the results of these preliminary lists in Montenegro, to see how many people have declared themselves Serbs, especially those who use Serbian. I must say that the idea of total interstate relations, they were not brilliant in previous years because of all the unilateral acts that the government of Montenegro has taken in recent years, is related to unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, sending ambassadors and some other moves both towards the SPC and concrete moves when Serbia is accused of being blamed for what reason it is guilty of something that has no logical basis. It's our desire to sign an education agreement. We expect it to be soon. I hope then that a large number of education issues for both students and high school students coming from Montenegro to Serbia will be resolved for them and for the state of Serbia in one favourable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57278	National MP Miroslav Markicevic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57279	I'm not gonna use two minutes, I'm just gonna say that I'm happy with the answers the ministers gave me, and mostly because of some personal opinion. I apologize for that, since it is my opinion that these are the resolutions where the least policies should be, that is, there should be no policy at all. Here's someone from the opposition praising some minister. So, both Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Stankovic, it seems to me, that there is a policy to the least possible extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57280	The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57281	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Stankovic. So this issue concerns a partial shortage of medicines in Serbia. I must remind Mr. Minister that the DSSto asked the question on 16 December 2010, at the time of the current Minister of Health, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic. So, at the time, there was a shortage of drugs, but not only drugs, but also sanity material. There have been cases of surgeons locking themselves in surgical blocks together with patients unable to perform a certain number of operations that were on the program. To this last question, we received one unmistakable answer, that the reason for the shortage of sanitary material and a certain group of drugs is due to the increase in cotton prices on the world market. We were amazed by the answer because such an answer is not adequate, it doesn't answer the fact. Prices can be increased, but this can't be a reason why there are no basic means to perform emergency surgical interventions. We're in a very similar situation today. It is mentioned that Galenika is collapsed, there will be shortages of a certain type of medicine. It is mentioned that Galenika is in debt. It is mentioned that these debts will be recovered from the Republic of Serbia's budget. How is it possible for Galenika to do a positive job three years ago, and in the last three years there's such a loss? It's mentioned that the head of the Galenike SPS personnel. I must remind Mr. Minister and one of the fact that in 2009, the president of the National Assembly, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukuć-Dejanovic, was a consultant at Galenica, and that is why she received a 700-euro grant from the media. How is it possible now, and she's one of the participants, so the SPS functioner, they're spending money, that Galenika is down, and now the budget money is going to help Galenika?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57282	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57283	I have to tell you that, as you yourself know, Galenika is not in the functioning of the Ministry of Health. However, discussing the functioning of the pharmaceuticals market at a symposium in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, presented data related to the pharmaceutical market and presented a certain examination of the problem and came to the knowledge that "Galenika" as a company does not have a single registered drug in Croatia, there is not a single registered drug in Slovenia, and that Croatia has over a hundred and Slovenia has over 200 registered medicines in our country. We said that we would intervene as a state, that this relationship, given that Croatia is a CEFTA member, should be resolved. In that conversation that we had with all these pharmaceutical companies, we had a fundamental tendency for the drug market in Serbia to be supplied with all the necessary products for our patients, considering that the drug that produces Galenika is four times cheaper than the import drug, all of which is the priority of our pharmaceutical industry, given that, say, "nitroglycerin" produced by 80 dinars, and the importer, which is now in pharmacies, is about 600 dinars. We also had a conversation with Director Ognjenović. After two or five days of talks with Ognjenovic, they inform us that they cannot supply the drug market. Then, at the government meeting, I took out all that data and I brought out all those things you know, and then, along with the Ministry of Economy, we got a warrant to solve it. We, in conversation with all segments and with all people, have had special talks in the Republic Health Insurance Fund with all Galenika producers, having talks with Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Vice-President Krkobic and others, have been able to agree to reprogramme this debt, since about 22 banks participated in financing or lending Gelenika, to approve, that the government would guarantee 70m euros, not to pay for it, but to guarantee the banks, which had already requested that guarantee so that they would finance this debt and it was agreed. In agreement with Galennik and the others, it is agreed that there will be no shortage of Galenika's drugs on the market. That's what the Ministry of Health is responsible for, in fact, what has been done preventively for this short time, has arranged for all things related to the supply of the drug market in our country, and that will be it. What's been going on since 2009, 2008 who's been on the board, whether he's been hired, I don't know, but there's all the data and they're verifiable, there's other services to deal with, I hope they'll do their job right. From the position of the Ministry of Health, I can promise, and I promised that the drugs would be what you just said there wouldn't be any drugs, it doesn't stand. So, I said, on many occasions, that we made sure that the market owns all the medications that are needed to treat our citizens, and I'm saying that again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57284	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57285	My colleague Dimitrijevic, just a few more sentences, with everything my colleague Stankovic said, I am obliged to say something, as I also spoke at the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this subject. My colleague Stankovic is my witness, since we were together at the time, about this question that you asked, which has this party dimension. It's not a party issue here, it's a business issue of a company and a management staff. I want you to know that the first sentence that I have spoken in the Government is that it is absolutely necessary to determine how the management, management and anyone who, if found out that he did something contrary to the law, to the harm of the Galenika, to the harm of the state, of course, to be processed and to be subject to the proper actions of the state authorities and if he did something contrary to the law to be punished, But it should be determined why Galenika was brought into this state and we need to answer, does Serbia need Galenika from the point of view of the strategy and does she need one factory to produce drugs and whose citizens will be able to buy these drugs? You heard a colleague, Stankovic, at a four-time lower price than the medicines on our market, which are produced in neighbouring countries, and that there are several other very interesting issues, which were also discussed by his colleague Stankovic. What is indisputable, that there is absolute commitment of the Government to establish the way Galenika operates, but also to bring Galenika into a state that she can produce drugs so that citizens can not buy these drugs, get them, and there will be no shortage of drugs on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57286	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57287	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Stankovic, we believe that you are not responsible for the current state of health and that is a very clear fact. We appreciate your efforts to fix something. But I have to answer Mr. Obradovic with one fact. Do you know how to form the average price of medicine? How is the average price of the medicine going to the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Institute formed? By taking the average price of medicine in Italy, Slovenia and Croatia. You know the fact that the rate of contribution per capita in Italy is 1200 euros, in Slovenia 1500 euros, and in Croatia over 1000 euros, and we have a total of 250 euros. That's the problem, Mr. Beard. When you answer the question, you need to know the facts. I ask this question – what will the Government do to change this regulation? As for the vaccine, Mr. Radovic, and there you had the answers. Things didn't go as you explain. The World Health Organization has sent a clear signal to our government and the Ministry of Health to threaten the pandemic of the so-called pandemic. Pig flu and get all the countries ready. Our health ministry was waiting for the epidemic to develop. At that point, we didn't have vaccines, we didn't have enough respirators, and we didn't have enough masks. It was negotiated, so instead of buying those vaccines that cost 500 dinars, those vaccines cost 800 dinars were purchased. That's the difference that's mentioned between a million and 600,000 euros. It's the subject of an investigation. So, unpreparedness, irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57288	Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57289	I'll give you a chance to make another call. I don't understand. Do you want the drugs to be more expensive? I'm telling you that Galenika sold four times as cheap medicine. Isn't that good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is. I don't know why you're taking this as a basis for your position – Italy, Slovenia? There are living standards and wages far higher. The payment possibilities of citizens are higher. If it's your idea to make the drugs more expensive, then let it be known it's your attitude. As far as this other one is concerned. It's very difficult to answer on behalf of a colleague who's not here. It's Tomica Milosavljevic. I'm sorry, your findings don't stand. When the Ministry of Health, I allow myself the right to protect my colleague, and I also protect the government, when in May, before the matter became serious in Serbia at all, the headquarters was formed and the first measures were taken. Most of the media then, to say the least, treated the subject as something that doesn't have its own seriousness. There have been comments that the government is usually exaggerating, threatening citizens, scaring them. The question is how many of the 192 countries were then even in a situation where there are those vaccines that you're talking about, since it's a very narrow circle of countries that produce vaccines. Of course, they rushed to supply themselves with vaccines first. Everyone else, including us, was in a position to buy them through a contract at a price that we can't influence. We cannot influence because we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have no reason to interpret any information related to the issue of obtaining vaccines in a way that would put the government in a position to explain and defend itself. Now it's easy to talk about, but when there was a flu case in Chačka and when after the paper was written, the number of students the next day, suddenly by 50% was smaller than the previous day, and so many children were not sick at all, then there was another story. When it was that Kragujevac case, the victims of the flu epidemic, I know all that, because as a minister I was in a very strange situation, that the flu has its own situation and that it needs to work. I know there was great concern for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will provide those vaccines. When she provided them, then thought began to consider whether to receive the vaccine at all. I don't suppose you're interested in that. You're interested in getting vaccines and stuff. So I know that we were unique about all the views about the flu in the government, and that the vaccine was obtained by the bodies that were responsible for it. Minister Milosavljevic will certainly have something to say in support of this issue, but I know for a fact that very few countries have been in a position to provide vaccines for their citizens. Everyone else had to buy at the price that was then on the market and on the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57290	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57291	Mr. Obradich, I would need a little more time to explain to you how money works in health care. I wasn't talking about that price Galenika sells to our citizens, I was talking about the price paid by the RZO. That's what I'm talking about. So, it's quite clear -- for medication. That's what I'm talking about. It's nothing complicated, you know. Why is that? I ask the question - when will he change that regulation? We don't have that kind of money to pay. Why is this price not as it is in Romania, as it is in Bulgaria? Do we look to Italy, Slovenia and those countries that are far ahead of us? That's the problem. As for the vaccine, Mr. Obradovic, we have a specialized house that deals with the production of vaccines. It's called "Torak," an I.D.A. and a Torak virusology that hasn't worked in years. When DSS deputies asked for funds to be allocated from the budget to help that Tolak make the vaccine, then we received unmistakable answers and the amendment's refusal. Why didn't Torlak import that vaccine, but it went through the middleman of Jugochemy? Who'd the money go into their pocket to? "Yugochemy", Miroslav Miskovic and tycoons. It was the government's decision. That's why the vaccine cost eight euros, and it didn't cost four and a half euros, as it was on the world market. So you have no reason to, you can't defend it, because that's how it is. The story is unwinding in public and this story will come out, so we will see why and how much the budget of the Republic of Serbia is damaged only by it, without talking about other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57292	The word has a National MP Momcilo Duvnjak, followed by a folk MP, Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. National MP Momcilo Duvnjak, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57293	Dear Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, I ask the Government, the competent ministry - what did it do? It didn't do anything, and it has to be done urgently. At a meeting of the National Assembly four months ago, when it was on the agenda of the Sport Act, I asked the Minister for Sports and presented facts and abuses in the Football Federation of Serbia. I didn't get the answer. Then I said, "Who will be the champion of the state? Who will win the Cup? Who will enter the higher rank of the competition?" Who are the three judges involved in match-fixing? Who's the president of the Justice Organization? After four months, believe it or not, it was all true. The country's champion is Partizan, the Cup has won Partizan, the working, Kragujevac and Novi Pazar have entered the larger ranks, as agreed. Who are the three judges who participated in match-fixing and all those three judges were at these controversial games? It is Jovanetić, Mazic and Spasojevic. The biggest shame and shame is for our sport, for our football and what's happening at the Cup match of Vojvodina-Partisan. The end of the game, the judge and the Fubel Alliance took part in it. In the end, no one's to blame. How is that possible? The second one is Bask convincingly the first and enters the Jelen Super League, after the deal with the FK Novi Pazar, leaves the place and the place of Baska leaves Novi Pazar in the Jelen Super League. Is it possible that someone built such a beautiful stadium as Bask, that he financed football players and paid everything and now there's no money to compete with? For that, gentlemen of the government, you must give your answer. That's when I said the same thing and asked -- how was the House of Football done in Old Paz? I asked clearly and loudly - who was making and which company, how much money was invested, where did this company before and what was it doing from construction works? I didn't get the answer. When we spoke from the SRS at that session on the Sport Act, the entire sports audience stood behind us, both former and current athletes, journalists, the whole of Serbia, and some came out publicly, and above all, Savo Milosevic. You know who he was, best known to the DS people who did not support their member in this, Vlade Divac, Boban Dmitrović. You who don't know, and this Boban Dmitrovic was former Yugoslav representative, while he coached the former Yugoslav selection of Ivica except. The man made it public that he played games that were staged. Of all these, the biggest facts were presented by a former football player and a football judge, recognised by us and in Europe, from Saturday, Arsic. (President: three minutes. What happened in four months? It was all true. I'm looking for an emergency response again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57294	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57295	I will ask my colleague Samardzic-Markovic to answer your question, making sure the state does not interfere with the work of the Football Union of Serbia, and all I would say would be biased, as I am partisan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57296	National MP Momcilo Duvnjak, three minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57297	It is true, Mr. Minister, that the state should not interfere and politics in clubs, but it is clear to you all that in football clubs and all clubs are all politicians to politicians, and it appears publicly. I'll tell you the truth. On Tuesday, not this one that has passed, but the previous one, the agreement on the entry of Novi Pazar and the deal has already ended with a politician at a bar in Bask Stadium. If you want time and who it was, I'll tell you. But let's not talk about it now. So in this country, you know everything, and there's a lot to be heard about sports. Some people are called sportsmen, top athletes who have nothing to do with this. I'll just tell you one article. Here's Blitz, gentlemen of the DS, you watch. Savo Milosevic, if he wants the Football Federation war, he'll have it. What did he say about the Football Federation and the president of the Football Federation? What did the Government of the Divac say? "Employment in the Football Federation and the set of our championships has been staged." We don't have any answers again. Just one more sentence to tell you. I pointed out at that session, and the authorities did not respond, that Ivica Dacic was familiar with this. We had great cooperation, and I think he'll hear this and answer us. I brought abuses to Kruševec at the Red Star-Progress game about ticket sales. 7,000 tickets were stolen. It was reported that there were 4,000 viewers, but there were 11,000. 7,000 tickets have disappeared, the cashier and the game's main organizer confirmed in court. The Chief Inspector for Economic Crime has hitchhiked, and you know who he is? Which has been in prison for five months, Jelic, who has been arrested in the alcohol affair. He's hitchhiking further investigation. I'm telling you enough what's going on in sports clubs. Please, from the government, you're in the government, you're ministers, you act. Only sport represents us in both the world and Europe. Here, look what Djokovic is doing to us. If Djokovic took American citizenship, the Americans, everyone would praise him. Here, we all welcome him for acting like this, which is what he is, that he has Serbia's first hat and Serbia's T-shirt on his winnings everywhere. Come on, be sure to get all this out in the open.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57298	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57299	Comrade Duvnjak, you're talking about two things. One thing is whether there are cases of illegal behaviour and crime in sports, and another is this topic that you mentioned about the role of politicians in sports, whether or not it should be. As for the first question, of course, let the law be applied, and whoever is guilty shall be punished. As far as I'm concerned, I need to make my personal point. Personally, I don't see anything wrong with the fact that people who are in the police are also in sports companies, if that sports society assesses that it's good for him, that the role of that individual can be of benefit to a sports society, to a particular club, to any sport that it is. Since I know that you are from Kruševec, I see nothing wrong with the fact that, for example, Dragan Jovanovic was at the head of Progress, because when Dragan Jovanovic, as the president of Kruševac, led the Progress, Progress was in the first league of then Yugoslavia, which is worth respect, and today there are people who are also in politics, but you know, clubs and sports societies themselves or individual clubs evaluate and together with them the degree of their engagement. Of course, the results can be positive, and they can be negative. Not all can be made public and performed by an individual, either positive, or negative conclusion. Every story is a story to itself. Because there are sports clubs where politicians are, so they're great, and those who are failing. And vice versa. It's a special subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57300	National MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57301	I'll just give you one fact, Mr. Minister. How is it possible that wherever there are politicians in clubs, these abuses happen? Here's another example from Krushevac. In 2002, 2003, the president of the "Progress" Football Club was former secretary of state from the DS. At the time, the transfer of football player Bojan Zajic to Obilic was worth 700,000 euros. That money that was taken, cash, from Svetlana Raznatovic, I would ask you to listen to this well, was taken in the presence of two police officers in Kruševec, Secretary General, Director of the Football Club Progress, former footballer Jokic, director of sports, Dejan Milovanovic, was brought to the sacks in Kruševac. We never found that money in the account, to see where it was and how it ended. I said the president was State Secretary Miodrag Djidic at the time. I was the vice president of the Football Club Progress, along with Radojica Milosavljevic, for five months. We've had our greatest success. That's when we found out there was no sign of that money anywhere. If it can be charged with abuse of player transfer one Dragan Djajic, one Miodrag Djidic can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57302	The word has a folk MP, Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, and after that, MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57303	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, MPs. I will ask the question of the Minister of Health, Mr Stankovic and the Minister of Justice, Mrs Malovic. My question is motivated by a strong desire to help families who care about sick members who are unable to be treated with us in Serbia and whose health insurance does not cover the cost of treatment. I've recently watched a very exciting show on television where four families have to periodically, I think twice a year, take their children to China to be treated there by stem cells. Of course, it requires enormous costs that these families, as a rule, do not have, and I believe that we are obliged as a state to help them. I'd like to formulate this question more as a suggestion where we can find the means to help these families. Namely, the Code of Criminal Procedure established something called the institute of delayed prosecution, when the prosecutor can delay criminal prosecution for minor crimes if the defendant, accused or suspected of addiction to the stage of the criminal proceedings, admitted that he had committed a criminal offence. In that case, therefore, the defendant could pay certain funds at the expense of a humanitarian organisation designated by the prosecutor. I don't argue that these funds have been going into the right hands so far, but it's mostly been the principle of some acquaintances and whether the prosecutor has a jury account of some humanitarian organization and whether there is some co-operation and what humanitarian organisations are at the city level, so I practically think this is good and these funds are welcome to these humanitarian organisations. I don't want to compare humanity when I say this would be more humane, but I still think these funds are more necessary to families who care for their sick members. So I'm going to come up with a question like this -- does the health minister know how many families are unable to treat in Serbia? Does the Minister of Justice have a record of the total funds paid to and on which the giro accounts are and is there any possibility that one gyro account will be educated to which all these funds will go and which will be intended for the purpose of treating these people? Because I really think that as a state, we have to take care of them, not let them raise those funds ourselves. Thank God there are good people with us and that mostly these families collect funds and take their loved ones abroad, but I think we as a country should make a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57304	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57305	Let me tell you right now. Of the rare diseases in our country, there are currently 36 people registered and 4% more should be registered. A unique register of 40 patients is being formed, which, according to our proposal and agreement with the Prime Minister and with people, will try to take, in addition to the existing fund that finances this treatment, out of the games for happiness, from the lottery, a certain percentage so that the fund can finance this disease. One goes to 250,000 euros annually, for example, such as "Batten's Disease". When it comes to going to China, I have to tell you that the Social Security Act does not foresee the possibility of paying for experiments, financing treatment, like in China, because everything that's done there is part of the experiment rather than healing. That's the last hope these parents have, and that's why they travel to China. We don't have the legal basis for the Republic Health Insurance Fund to refund it because, as I told you, it's an experiment. Is he gonna make it, and how much, we'll see. But we are obliged to provide for these patients, 40 of them, and we hope to succeed, in addition to the existing fund that provides some of the funds with this, as I told you from Luttria, the percentage that will be in that fund, to provide uninterrupted treatment for those persons. In the course of a few days, we will have a special round table with means of public information, where this issue will be discussed, a unique list has been established that has not existed so far and we will try to help these people in the way that we should and in the way that the citizens of our country wish and with it MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57306	Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57307	I'm glad to hear that because really, maybe these people are the last hope and the state cares about them, but I wouldn't ignore even these people you say are in the realm of experimentation, not healing, because I don't know, everyone who's a parent, when you tell him that's the last hope, but the state can't help you, I don't think that's right. Therefore, I fully understand that our health system cannot cover this and that our laws do not allow this kind of treatment, but I simply note, and I want to draw attention to the fact that there are resources that, in my knowledge, are not small, that this institute will live and that these funds will be even greater and that they can be very, very humanely exploited. So I ask you, if you think this idea is good, I know that Mrs Malovic thinks it's a good idea I need your help to realize this idea in order to provide even that last hope for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57308	Minister Zoran Stankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57309	We'll support you in that, the idea is great and there's no problem. I think we have agreed and that in co-operation with Minister Malovic, we will deal with you in a satisfactory manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57310	Do you want to use two minutes? No, I don't. ) In this case, the word has been made by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, after his international MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57311	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, this morning when I left, I was thinking about whether you'd be here today, but thank God you're here, so I could ask you a few questions that interest the citizens of the town of Capca. The educational institution "Our child" changed a year ago and changed more, replaced by parents, former director Jasmine Vuletic from that place because she was filming pornographic films. Unfortunately, what happens next, that director, instead of being removed from that institution, is assigned to a child psychologist. My parents keep coming to the MP's office, they wrote a petition that they want this person to get away from that institution, which I believe you are as a responsible man, and a minister, and a parent that will influence the competent institutions of your institutions to resolve this case, that is, the grace of the parents who demand that this person be removed from that institution. The second question is dedicated to one of the biggest robberies that took place in the area of Macva, Pocerina, so let's say Jadra, when the poor peasants of one company, "Majstorović dil", who for 24 million sickened the peasants by taking their cattle without paying them. Unfortunately, what happens is that the director and owner of the company, in particular the director, was a council member of the City Assembly, where he was replaced by a committee of the Serbian Radical Party and citizens, has been removed from the post, as they are calling for immunity, could not have been initiated by criminal charges against him and against his firm. But unfortunately, here is a big procedure where over 200 living witnesses remain without their resources, or the court unfortunately ruled that even though peasants were robbed, they should bear some court costs, which I believe should be initiated. Furthermore, the third question is dedicated to you, which is that the former president of the Vladimirci municipality is Janko Djuric, a Russian, who served as president of the municipality, and he was also a Russian language professor at school, not for three minutes, here is the third minute, so you can answer this question later so that I can continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57312	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57313	My colleague Zivanovic, if you didn't want me to speak and abuse the Rules of Procedure, I would have kept my mouth shut, so you wouldn't be able to speak. But here I would like to hear what you have to ask me, and as for the answer to your first question, I will deliver it to you next week, since I will be your guest here, to say in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when we discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the basic system of education and education, and then I will have more complete information about what happened at the preschool facility. In any case, what you said I remembered and I'll see what the inspection report is, since you know that preschools and methods of work are prescribed by law and that there is the authority of the board of that institution. Of course, I care, as much as you do, that the court gets the right state of affairs. I'll let you know next week. Now I'd like to hear what else you have to ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57314	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57315	Thank you. So, the former president of the municipality when he finished his option as president, he realized that normally, he signed with the school board a contract that when he finished the office of the president of the municipality to return to professor of Russian language. However, the school board decides to declare it a technological surplus, which is unfortunately a deficiting profession. He later, but earlier, before doing so by the school board, he raised his own and his associates in the municipality without legal procedure. What happens next? It happens that when the gentleman completed his option and other political options came to rule the municipality, he asked the six months to pay for his personal income. The Ministry of Local Self-Government has been given the consent not to be paid. However, normally as our judiciary is, it initiates criminal proceedings against the president of the municipality, and what the dispute is won and paid for in those six months, to pay him back wages, that is, by the coefficient that he himself has raised to himself and to his associates. I believe that later, when all this is done, he gets the call to represent Serbia through the Chamber of Commerce in Russia, and what gets the normal slowdown, which cost the municipality of Vladimiračka. I think it's illegal and it should be done through legal services, and probably also through the Ministry of Education to reconsider it. The fourth question is dedicated, ladies and gentlemen, to a very important subject these days, which is the subject of immunity. For the unspoken word I was punished in the assembly of the city of Šapca, I did not say certain words and calling for immunity and coming here to the Administrative Committee which did not say that the judge had to apply for what I sought immunity. But it happens the other way around that the judge wouldn't accept it. My pledge to seek immunity has already carried out that court procedure. You've seen how and how this issue of immunity comes up these days. In fact, I asked for unspeakable words that the court condemned me both to the municipal and the county court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57316	Do any of the ministers want a word? No, I don't. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, followed by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57317	The esteemed chairman, ministers, respected colleagues, since I see that today's two ministers know a lot of answers to questions addressed to other ministries, I will be a little rude, so I will ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic something from his portfolio. Since this parliament has passed the Law on Equalising the Rights of Members of the Ravnog Movement and Partisans, as historical facts have been established that speak of the anti-fascist role of the first anti-fascist guerrilla in Europe, so is the foreign minister of Great Britain Anthony Idn. I ask you, in historical textbooks, do you think it is necessary to find a revised objective real picture in historical textbooks of General Mihajlovic and hundreds of thousands of his parliamentarians, who from 1944 to 1946, were at least 100,000 of them thrown into mass graves across Serbia by red executioners. When Draža, I will remind you, Mihajlovic was killed, in French schools a minute of silence was loyal to the great sacrifice and the great anti-fascist fighter, and Serbia is not ready today to acknowledge the role of General Mihajlovic's movement and to confess in historical textbooks on other grounds, that generations cannot be brought up as they have been brought up to date. We should be proud that we have two anti-fascist movements, one partisan, and the other one is Equality. All countries that have in any way talked to Fascism or who have played a fascist role in World War II, in all possible ways try to justify their role as a cover-up for history, so that they have some other image in front of the world. However, there are people in Serbia who insist on pushing an anti-fascist movement towards fascism and thus denying Serbia's anti-fascist role from 1941 to the Tehran Conference. We know well that during this period, communists in Serbia did not exist. So, I ask you, will the practice of having falsified history continue, and here comes July 7th, which may once again be the President of Parliament, as well as earlier years, go to the White Church and lay a crown on the killer instead of laying the crown of the murdered. I don't believe anyone in this room believes that the anti-fascist struggle is the murder of two Serbs by Bogdan Loncar and Milenko Brakovic. They don't have fascist names. These are Serbs who were killed and presented in historical textbooks in Serbia, young generations as some fascists or some people who fought in Serbia anti-fascists.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57318	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57319	Mr. Jugovic, I have the impression that you're judging, and you're not asking, and that's bad. There are two things that are undeniable, thank God, no minister, nor this one, can affect the contents of the textbook that is written, nor approve it, nor prohibit it. That's what competent people do. There is one more thing that is indisputable – the court does not write history, but facts. Because if the court were to write, then a court decision might be 40 and some for all time. Here, you are now calling for a new one. I guess some new court decision will make something else in a few years. Courts don't write history, facts. I am sorry that you were not present in a very interesting debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a few years ago, when we discussed this issue, so we have been instructed, each from his side, by some historical facts, not domestic, but by sides. It's a shame you weren't back then, otherwise you might not have discussed this issue that way, but I understand. Obviously, there is a political need for you to affirm this issue in the way you do it, but don't have any worries and sleep peacefully. It doesn't write politics history, it writes people who deal with history based on facts and judge everyone in history, a personality that you promote and personality or some idea or movement against which you are. An individual’s judgment can never be measured against facts that mark a history. Once again, experts write history, not politicians and not courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57320	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57321	When we talk about passion, when we talk about bias, I can't help but notice that you've put yourself on one side that's not good at all. You've put yourself in the role of historians of someone who wants to say that he knows more than anyone else who's an MP in this House. I think that, above all, it is very important that the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia respects the laws passed by the Republic of Serbia, which is, above all, the law, I think that you were then an MP, who was brought into the House of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, who had equalised the rights of the Equality and Partisans. Therefore, we must put all our forces in the ministry of reconciliation, primarily in the service of historical facts that will lead in that direction. If one side, in this case, is the movement of General Mihajlovic, on the other side for 50 years constantly, as well as the truth, buried, killed, if 50 years of people who were anti-fascists, but were not on the side of the winner, lived in fear, without rights, without employment opportunities, and 50 years of those who killed them, who arrested them along with their children enjoyed all the benefits and political murders and arrests and everything. That's why the SPO advocates opening the file. Then it's a bad message, unless we're ready to change, to examine everything that's been going on and that 50-year history, which you have to admit is one-sided, can never be a criterion for determining true truth. Now in Serbia, we can find over 200 locations with hundreds of people who were thrown into mass graves just because they thought otherwise, from 1944 to 1946. What do you think the history the killers wrote looks like? Could she be on the victim's side? Of course he can't. These are all things that require one great analysis, a great debate and space for those people who want to correct historical injustices. Europe is teaching us today, making us pass restitution laws. Europe is pushing us in a certain way to pass a law on the opening of secret police files and files of all services. For what? Because we have to face the past. The Council of Europe has adopted a resolution calling on all former communist countries to deliver a resolution on the condemnation of the communist terror crime, and many Western European countries have passed the resolution. That's the need of this parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... to bury historical injustices forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57322	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has his word, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57323	I am sorry that my colleague, Jugovic, listens only to himself. If you had listened to a little bit of what I said, you would have heard what I said, and I said – I am neither an individual nor any minister in the government, someone who writes a textbook. They write people who do history based on facts and you're too young to know everything that's been going on and that you're so sure about all these strong conclusions. I don't trust things like that anymore. I'm looking for more sources and I'm looking for more information. I watched with my eyes what it looked like on March 9, 1991, and I know what's now being written and it's like history. I took part in it, just like you, and we probably have a different angle of looking at these events, and that's, if you want, normal. You did not listen to me, I once again tell you, in a debate held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the parliamentary group I belonged to did not direct domestic sources, not to use the name you used, but to foreign ones. If you consider Mr. Churchill a murderer, then say so – listen, he has expressed an attitude that we do not like, and that is why we will appoint him for one or the other. My obligation, as Minister of Education and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to respect the laws passed in the judgment, but I'm telling you, ministers and courts don't write history. We've written our history in a certain way, so we've experienced that when we mark the Day of Victory a few years ago, we'll be stuck with other countries that participated in the fight against fascism, the greatest evil of the 20th century. Why? Because we've made some points. You think that was acceptable for others? They showed us where we belong compared to what is acceptable for others. These are too large topics for this agenda of the Assembly and for the MPs present here. History is written by facts and by people who do it, not by people who do politics. If you intend to promote your party's political agenda, that's legal. This is a parliament and serves part of it, but not today and not through this story, and especially since the procedure of writing textbooks excludes absolutely any individual, at least in the image of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57324	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57325	I didn't say you were writing a history textbook, because I think he'd be biased. I asked you if you felt that in a historical textbook, history should be revised and the truth about World War II revealed, all events after World War II. Do you think, when you mention sources, that 100,000 people have been killed and thrown down mass graves across Serbia, is that a fact, are they victims? Of course they are. When we talk about March 9th, let's open our files here from 1990, see what was going on, whose role was from 90 to 2000, and after that, in all the events and all that you were involved in as a political party or a member of the political party and the SPO itself. That's why files need to be opened. Do you, when you look at the murder of Ivan Stambolic on Fruszko Gora and look at the murder of Draža Mihajlovic on Adi Ciganlia, the same hand, the same handwriting, the same service killed each other in the same way, killed, thrown into a secret tomb, filled with living paint and one and the other. There are similarities, though, and between the funeral of friends and enemies by the communists, it is usually done at night, in the dark, in the sneaking, so is the former leader of the SPS in the yard of his house in Pogorevec, in the lurch, in the dark buried, and the enemies were killed in the dark, in the hole, in Ada or, for example, in Frusko Gora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57326	National MP Milan Nikolic has a word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57327	Dear citizens, honourable government representatives, I would like to ask a few questions, although the structure of the government's representatives does not correspond to the areas in question. Serbian citizens have been faced with various disasters, natural disasters, earthquakes, floods, etc. in recent days and years, they cannot be prevented but their consequences can be reduced. We also have accidents that are characterized by the current government that has been causing invaluable damage to the citizens of Serbia for the past ten years. The latest storm, accident, storms have hit more municipalities in Serbia, including the municipalities of Arile, Luciani, Ivanica, Chatin and other municipalities in Serbia. The damage was estimated at around 40m euros, with the government's last decision to help these municipalities with 35m dinars. It's minor and insignificant. Arile and the environment is the centre of raspberries production, producing 5% of total world production. Ariel is a brand in the world by the production of raspberries. Ariel municipality is damaged, raspberries are damaged by about 50%, orchards are damaged, plum plantings, objects, roads etc. The damage has been done somewhere around 10m euros, and that is estimated damage. In this decision, the government has set the aid of 14 million dinars to Ariel and very little. The damage is at the level of five budgets, five annual budgets, and you've devoted only 14 million dinars and it's a really humiliating offer. That's why I'm asking and asking if the government has any intention of helping vulnerable and damaged municipalities in any way, not to speak of anti-urban defense. That's the problem for many years, which is the lobby, and that's why it's not solved at one organised level, because we know that anti-building stations should have at least organisational formations of about 14 rockets, and they always have a lot less, and in this case they've had 2-4 on it, and it's been fired, but it didn't have any effect, and it was supposed to be 14. One rocket costs about 250 euros, and for 10,000 missiles it was necessary to allocate about two and a half million euros, and we had damages in one hour for about 40m euros of estimated damage. The next question would be the price issue of raspberries, whether representatives of the government or government know that the current price of raspberries is 60 dinars of the second class and 80 dinars of the first class. It's a price that destroys raspberries and manufactures just like the weather, like tsunamis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57328	Do any of the ministers want a word? Here you go, Minister Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57329	To this first question of yours, I can say that it was only the first aid from the government, and we expect, in the next period, that after assessing the damage, the government will consider all this and, according to its material capabilities, it will certainly participate in the recovery of the damage caused by the elemental accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57330	The word has Milan Nikolic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57331	These things are repeated year after year, when it comes to the price of raspberries and I mentioned that it is currently 80 dinars, and last year it was 150 dinars. You remember two years ago that there were rave protests, that they came before the Assembly and were then deceived, talks were held in Ariel, Užica, in September 2009. It is agreed that in 15 days, the government will come up with a comprehensive proposal to solve this problem, that we do not have this kind of price disparity decline, because it destroys the production of raspberries. I would like to refer to subsidies, the state gives a lot of subsidies to agriculture, but as these subsidies are being spent, it is under question. Just for example, last year's artificial fertilizer subsidies were at 210 thousand tons, which is about 20,000 dinars per tonne, which is about two billion and 100 million. There is a regulation, i.e. how it can be used, where it is limited, that natural persons, i.e. owners, can use subsidies, but not less than 20 tonnes, and not more than 150 tonnes. Now I ask the question who came up with it to be the lower limit of 20 tons, and with me in Ariel, in Užičko County, none of the land and agricultural producers need that amount. I ask the question how can they come and use the grant for artificial fertilizer? For example, the subsidies in 2010 were used through these companies, so they were used, for the spring set of the company "Fertil" took advantage of 551 million, and "The Victoria Group" 402 million, "Promist" from Novi Sad 32 million, etc. For the fall set, Victoria used 774 million, and the Promist used 328 million. I ask the question of how these subsidies are used and do they come to the one who really needs them?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57332	Do any of the ministers want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57333	Mrs. Komic, I have prepared myself seriously for today and I had a question for every minister, but because of Mr. Obradovic and Stankovic, I had to reduce the order of these issues. To run this conversation like this, Mr. Obradovic, since it's 95 to 5, I mean that judicial budget of yours, I talked about the percentage, it's all clear and there's nothing to talk about and ask. So 95% goes for wages and five percent for everything else. The only question remains how to end this educational and educational mafia that is present, you know that, and I'm interested in what you're doing in that direction. Mr. Stankovic, there's a problem in these small municipalities and these undeveloped municipalities with maternity, pregnancy, supplements, fees, and a lot of late, and believe that some families live on it, so I'm counting on you to use your position to influence the government a little bit to get a priority, with full time and space orientation, and that in your area, we're looking beyond the health, pharmacy, and the pharmaceutical mafia that's pretty strong is working. There's something you need to do, I know it's hard for you, it's hard for only this UBPOK crew, I think you need both the gendarmes and the cavalry and other armed forces, because it's all tied up and it's organized crime from the beginning, it's not from recently. Do not go around Mrs. Vukajlović, regardless of the vaccines, these things, don't forget her either, because you see for yourself, however you turn, it's in some relationship with some of the monopolies, and you just heard Mr. Nikolic, Victoria Group, ask who runs this firm formally and who owns it informally, so you will understand how the agriculture ministers who must always be in favor of "The Victoria Group", but that's another topic. As for Galenika, what can I tell you, Dragan Ognjanovic destroyed all the companies where he was director and took care of it, it's not just a matter of the price of domestic drugs, it's a violation of the value of Galenika, because it needs to be privatised. Of course, I have an example here of how it's not right when a man's name is Simic. There are two Simic families in the same building. In one apartment there was this Simic governor and that Zagljanin, but these turtles, these special forces, when they came in, they missed an apartment like Junior when they missed the National Bank and entered Mrs Simic's apartment, they did a lot of work, and that poor girl's been running the action there for years, so charge me for this damage, you took my door, you took my windows, you broke all this, because mistakes are possible when criminals are being hunted. That's no reason not to remove it. I'm waiting for Mr. Stankovic's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57334	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57335	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for the present problem, in any case, we will do everything we can to ensure that these families get everything that belongs to them under the law, given the white plague that is ruling in our terms and that there is a need for this to be resolved in an adequate manner. I have to tell you here when it comes to all these investigations, concerning certain affairs that were in the past, and they were in the jurisdiction of UBPOK, the Ministry of Justice and the D.A.'s office. I wouldn't be able to go into any details here in any way, regardless of the information I have, since you yourself know that when a criminal case is in progress, that any statements are not allowed to be made, and neither is that covered by the justice, prosecution or police authorities. About the privatisation of the Galenika and all that you've brought out, I can only say that at this point it was most important for us, and I repeat, that the market should be supplied with the cures of the Galenika, because by some estimate one large portion of the funds would then remain in our country, which would be given for importing drugs, as we have said, which are four times more expensive. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57336	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57337	Thank you, Mr. Stankovic. You're not angry that I'm going to abuse a little bit in this comment, I'm not going to spread anything that Mrs. Comic wouldn't be upset, but I have to distract you. And 100,000 young people work through youth cooperatives and are also in a slave relationship. Tell that to Mr. Cvetkovic and the others when they have time to see how this problem can be solved. When you meet Mr. Sutanovec, tell him to approve that documentation for General Acu Vasiljevic, because you know very well, by official duty, and even something reluctant, what was Mr. Ace Vasiljevic's role. Mr. Stankovic, I have a DVD here, there are two films, and you're on one. It's "The Betrayal City." You know, it's a Norwegian production -- "The Truth About Srebrenica". You've shown a dozen of those records here, postmortem findings on the death of Serbs, Kravica, Bratunac, you know very well, since you've done it extremely well. The second film was "The Lies began" – German production. I would ask you to let your fellow ministers see these films before every cabinet session, to see that there were no genocides in Srebrenica, and to see how tactical it was to break up the SRJ and Serbia. These are films made by authors who live and work in EU Member States. It's broadcast everywhere. I provided the title, since these people know Serbian and not only English, so you educate them, Mr. Stankovic, because you are a professor, you have besides these health and educational skills and obligations. He'll be very helpful, I'm sure of it. I'm pretty sure this is going to broadcast more than once and keep track of who's watching them and who's not watching. Anyone who doesn't look will get a minus. That's what I'm sure he'll do. This to give them education, to determine what is true, and not to talk at all -- the EU has no alternative. So there's no confusion, we can ask a lot of questions. You know, I need to know the answers to all these questions I'm asking, but I care for the public to hear it. I'm more concerned with the public hearing about what the enlightening role of the SRS is. We give you materials and we ask you on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 92% do not want to hear about the NATO Pact, you know that this is an instrument of pressure, education and pressure that his Excellency, Minister Sutanovac, approves that documentation, so that finally the world public will hear what General Aleksandar Vasiljevic's role was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57338	I'll take that CD and put it on the board of directors. If the committee says it comes to the government's meeting, and you know it's meant to be, then it's going to be at the government's session. If the board of directors refuses to do so, they won't be in the government's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57339	Does MP Zoran Krasic want two minutes? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57340	I just want to get a few things straight. Please, Aleksandar Vasiljevic is an alpha and omega for everything attributed to Serbs. You know how many Serbs are accused and how many are convicted in The Hague. One who only reads a summary of the UN tribunal's verdict will see mental holes in the arguments. You need to know that this state guards protected witnesses and witnesses from co-workers who lied both in Belgrade and lied in The Hague. Neither the Belgrade court accepted their testimony nor the UN tribunal accepted their testimony. You know Mr. Stankovic about the Vukovar Troika and you know about what he added to his notebook with a sentence of counterfeiting. You know who Alexander Vasiljevic influenced to give a false statement. How can Mr. Sutanovac say – this documentation must not be delivered? This documentation must be delivered, because at the same time on the Hague tribunal site there is what makes Florence Artman fit. It's a session of the Supreme Defence Council, which is an exception that the public must not know. How can the public know that now and not find out about Alexander Vasiljevic? Are we fighting for justice, for human rights, for democracy, for the prosperity of the Serbian people, for Serbia? Who's blocking the truth? Thank you, no more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57341	We still have time for the last reported, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, to exercise her right to ask a question. There you go, people's emissaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57342	Thank you. I am really not surprised that Mr. Obradovic is here with us today, given that it is a man who has doctored political sciences and is absolutely aware that the degree of democracy in one society is measured, among other things by the mechanisms of control of three branches of government, in this case by legislative and executive authorities. Mr. Stankovic is brief in the government and there is obviously no fear of going before the MPs. For the other ministers, we must really ask ourselves why they did not come, although they have an obligation, and this Rules of Procedure obliges them to inform the National Assembly who will not be present, and therefore also that the President of the Assembly will inform us who will not be in parliament on that day, so that we can then focus questions on those ministers who are there, so that this will not be an empty debate. I apologize for having elaborated this a little bit, but just today some MPs have spoken to themselves, because of course these two ministers can't answer all the questions. Now, I am one of them who will ask the question, in the hope that at least in writing it will come back to us, although the goal, I think, of this session that the public hears us, but also to hear the representatives of the authorities, what they have to tell us in response to our questions, and not only do we get those answers, because then our way of passing that response to citizens is much harder than they have to follow this session. In any case, am I interested in whether the Serbian government is aware that the town of Nis, as a local self-government, opened an office in Brussels? Based on what law? As far as I understand myself in the jurisdiction of local self-government, nor the Law on Local Self-Government, nor the Constitution of Serbia allows and allows such a thing. So, the whole event's genealogy from the time that the Duke's statute was passed and something like that was announced, but no one in their right mind could assume that one city could decide on such a thing, with an explanation that really couldn't drink water. But no matter how justified the argument is, simply, there is no basis for such a thing in the law and in the Constitution. The government had to intervene. The competent ministry had to propose to the government to suspend the execution of such a decision. I want an answer to what the government has done about this, because if all the cities start opening their representations in Brussels, how far are we going to get? They're states in the country. As far as I know, we have one state, and local self-government can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-30-0.u57343	It's been three minutes, thank you. Since we have now exhausted a list of all the MPs who wanted to participate by asking parliamentary questions, and it is 19.00 hours, we are finishing today's session in which MPs are asking parliamentary questions to the members of the government. I would like to thank Minister Zarka Obradovic and Minister Zoran Stankovic for his participation in the session, with certainty that next Thursday we will have at our disposal all the ministers we, the MPs, will tell good stories about how he behaves at the session. The session will continue tomorrow, on Friday, July 1st, at 10.00 p.m., with discussion in particular, i.e. a review of the amendments to the Bill on Youth. Tomorrow we'll only do that law. Thank you.
