ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 72 MPs, despite the obvious fact that there are many more of us. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session is under Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure, requesting notice or explanation, therefore, by way of a possibility pursuant to Article 286. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Would one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with the said member? Yeah. The People's Messenger Milentijevic Vladimir has the word, and the People's MP Rogović Mico, and the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63901	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am not going to tell you about yesterday's conflict with my fellow citizens in the Zubin Potok municipality and with my family and family, because everything has been seen. The work is about the same Germany of 1941, which in its occupation intention trampled over people who were naked and unarmed to protect the legitimate and national interests of the Republic of Serbia and their interests. The cause of yesterday's conflict and events is the disastrous and capitulant policy of the government and the president of the Republic of Serbia. that the policy of the President of the Republic, although the Constitution does not allow it, is also the agreement reached by the negotiating team, which is neither based on Resolution 1244 nor on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor on the laws of the Republic of Serbia, any declaration adopted by this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All the institutions in this country have been destroyed, the other two that act, when it comes to KIM and all that, are the cabinet of the President of the Republic and the government's official on the negotiating team, Mr Borko Stefanovic. The result of all of this, all of the negotiations, is the recognition of KIM. You confessed, gentlemen, to KIM. I've listed, without the support of the Constitution, without the support of Resolution 1244 and everything else. Someone will say that the President of the Republic is leading a wise and courageous state policy. Since agreements, all that is happening around KIM, are not in line with the Constitution, the policy cannot be called a wise policy and a brave one, such a policy is called a treasonous policy in Serbia. It is definitely a treasonous policy led by Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic. He sold KIM for the EU, and that doesn't mean anything, it's a fact. He is the creator of this treasonous policy, and Mr. Borko Stefanovic is the executioner of all of this in the KIM field. There are now two Martti Ahtisaaris in KIM and the implementation of the Borislav Ahtisaari plan. Borislav Ahtisaari is now implementing everything reached by the agreement, which leads to Kosovo's independence. We Serbs from the north of KIM, with the full support of all Serbs from central Kosovo, will never accept what Mr. Borko Stefanovic has accepted, nor will we allow the agreement to be implemented and the time has passed slowly. KFOR cannot remove barricades. We've got a lot of barricades out there. We were led to barricades by Boris Tadic and this authority, to defend Kosovo's north from the KIM institutions, and now it wants to put it on the responsibility of Serbs and political structures in KIM. That's impossible. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the President of the Republic of Serbia -- how they think they are resolving the issue of northern Kosovo and whether Serbs from northern Kosovo will tire out and accept everything the gentlemen of the ruling coalition planned, which is recognition of an independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63902	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a strange beginning and the support of an alleged large opposition party in the ruling coalition, I am using the right to ask several questions. The first question of the finance minister, or prime minister, about the Bogoje border crossing at Somboro. The board at the border crossing states that the completion of the papers is 25. 5. In 2010, the finance officer was the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. I am looking for an answer to the question - how much did it cost to build a border crossing, why were the works not yet completed within that deadline, especially terminals, why did the almost customs officers work in abnormal conditions and how much did it cost to build the toilets at the border crossings? Another question for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic – is it possible against the provisions of the Law on Police, whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, under article 133 and 134 of police officers, or employees of the MUP, cannot be highlighted by political figures, or by policy? Is it possible that our colleagues, now mayors and formerly mayors of Jagodina and Kragujevac, are resigning from the mandates of the MPs, and that one Head of the Interior Sector in Užica is at the same time a city council in the municipality of Užica, in the town of Užica? If you enter the Užica city site, you will see that this person is in charge of the farm resort and that he is the head of the department at the Užica MUP. The next question about Užice is how much did the MUP cost to mark Užica Day in the period from October 5th to October 9, with various activities, in which, like Jagodina, members of the MUP participated? The next question for Mr. Minister of Education Zarka Obradovic is whether it is possible for the director of a primary school in Koserić, and it is the primary school "Mito Igumanović", to submit an irrevocable resignation as director before the end of the term of office of director, later on several days before the end of the term of office with a variety of malversions to the same function, and that, contrary to Article 131. The Law on Education, at the same time and in the second term, preserves its position, which is contrary to the Law on Education and Education and not to allow individual teachers, who, according to a special collective contract on education, are obliged to fill the foundation of classes, but to receive another person to the workplace, while part of the teacher, or teacher, stays with the unfulfilled fund of classes? Question for Mr Obradovic - what number of employees on 30 June 2011 were they in primary and secondary schools? Next question - how many educators retired on 31 August 2011? Then, what was the number of teaching workers employed on October 31st, 2011? The last question for Mr. Obradović – what is the number of primary and secondary school employees who are unprofessional to do these jobs? The last question for Mr Markovic and citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic – how is it possible that citizens of the Republic of Serbia originating in the former republics of the former SFRY cannot draw confidence about citizenship in their home municipalities? We have a situation where, for example, a man who's been reported and lives in Ariel, and he's from the former republics, the belief of citizenship can only come out in Uzic. It's about classical discrimination, and that's what the next example is about. When we citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are born in the Republic of Serbia are seeking assurance of citizenship for doing jobs, because of work permits, because of labour obligations, it costs us nothing, and when citizens of the Republic of Serbia born in the former republics of the SFRY draw confidence about citizenship in the police station, and it costs them 540 dinars in the district headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63904	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's on a big Ship's holiday yesterday, so-called. The day of the flag, KFOR violently removed the barricades set by Serbs in Jagnjenica, and a large number of people were injured on that occasion. The figure spoken of in the public goes from 65 to more than a hundred, as he claims Minister Bogdanovic was injured. Even more terrible than all these injuries, the regime in Belgrade practically took a violent action by KFOR, not expressing its stance, only appealed to President Boris Tadic and the KIM minister, urged both sides to refrain from violence and called for a continuation of dialogue. I must inform, above all, Boris Tadic that he should call on his partners from the EU, his partners from the NATO Pact to stop the violence. This is not about any mutual violence, but about the violence of KFOR's more and more occupation forces against unarmed Serbs. Media reporting was also under the obvious control of the regime and was aimed at reducing the importance of everything that happened down there, to minimise the violence applied to Serbs, to reduce the number of injured. No one reported any injuries or types of injuries. What is also very terrible, you did not adequately present an open threat to KFOR members, which made it clear that next time they will react much worse, much more aggressively. They claim they have the right to use combat ammunition against unarmed Serbs. It is practically a matter of the moment or days when there will be a much greater number of victims and there will be a significantly greater number of fatalities. What the media didn't pass on, and what we've learned reliably, is that a series of rubber bullets on the Serbs were fired and shotguns. So, the commitment of KFOR representative, Germany's KFOR at the moment was not to have more dead Serbs, but only to hurt them and prevent them from maintaining those barricades. The tents in which Serbs were staying were set on fire with flares. All this suggests that in the days that KFOR's activities will come, they will be much more violent and, God forbid, I think it is increasingly obvious that there will also be a takeover of life to representatives of Serbs and people who protest peacefully in barricades. The government of the Republic of Serbia said in a report delivered to the MPs that following the September 27th violence committed by members of US KFOR, there was a delay in the seventh round of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which was scheduled in Brussels, and that our party stressed its readiness to continue the dialogue, but with a preliminary finding of a solution to the current crisis on the ground. If violence is worse today and yesterday than it was on September 27th, if the number of injured is higher, if the determination of representatives of EU and KFOR countries to break up violently and barricades is even greater, how is it possible that Borislav Stefanovic travels to Brussels today and continues some negotiations? We have already asked several questions in the congregation about these issues, and we have not received any answers. On July 27th, dated July 27th, the SRS submitted an interpretation of the KIM situation. It's been months, it's 30 days for the Assembly to discuss it, and we haven't received any answers yet. Yesterday, at a meeting of the KIM Committee, one of the topics was to report to the negotiating team on agreements reached in connection with the recognition of university diplomas. Although it's been 10 days since the so-called. The deal, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has not yet been delivered by the negotiating team. Yesterday, MPs waited four hours for Borislav Stefanovic. He's been delayed three times, even though he's all three times scheduled in an appointment that he's just been setting himself up. Then the news on state radio is that the session has not been held because Borislav Stevanovic is not allowed to give the report orally. Do you think you will humiliate the Messengers to the end? His obligation was to deliver a written report, he committed himself to it. Should the MPs be taking stenographic notes?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63906	Thank you very much. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63907	Mr. Chairman, the question I wanted first of all to ask the President of the Assembly, but I also have to ask you a question. So, I ask you, is this part of the session subject to rules that apply to the work of this Parliament, which means that it is not permitted to insult and bring out false things when it comes to parliamentary matters? So, the MP who spoke first today in the most harshly possible way, which is completely unimaginable in a decent parliament, insulted individuals who are not here, insulted institutions, humiliated parliament. So I ask the question is it in this part of the session that the chairman is obliged to take care of what anyone says from the assembly pay phone? I'm asking the President of the Assembly a second question. I ask the President of the Assembly if the rules apply to all committees, no matter who presides over them? So, we are witnessing that individual committee presidents are misusing the Assembly committee in the most harsh way possible, leading their parties, I do not want to qualify them as such, but my own exclusively party policies, completely ignoring the fact that there are rules in this House that must apply equally to all. In fact, yesterday's session of the KIM Committee was delayed precisely because of the fact that, due to the events that took place in northern Kosovo, the head of the negotiating team was prevented from coming to that session on time, but he did come when he completed the commitments he had previously failed to postpone. Then it happened that the Committee was transformed into a party party party party, in which those who represented that party policy were given the word, and that at the time when the chief of the negotiating team was to be given the floor, without any explanation and without any vote by the Committee, it was necessary to declare whether the Committee would be interrupted and continued the next day or not. So you can't chair yourself to decide that. The chairman, without any reason, prevented the chief of the negotiating team from speaking, interrupted the session and scheduled it tomorrow, knowing that the chief of the negotiating team today, because of the commitments he has made earlier and which he has, could not attend the committee. All of this is a party udura in which one of the most difficult and important issues, such as the question of KIM, is to abuse it in the worst possible way. I believe that citizens recognize those who manipulate this topic and believe that citizens will clearly assess it in the elections. It's not my question, nor is it what we need to do. So everyone runs politics the way they think they should run it. The citizens are there and they will evaluate them and they are estimating very strictly those who are trying a life-threatening, terribly difficult question regarding people's lives to abuse in one bizarre way. What is inadmissible is the fact that the rules of procedure, which are very clearly defined in this Parliament and which apply on other committees, are not applied on one committee, only because of the fact that the committee is chaired by a representative of one opposition party, who thinks and acts as if the committee is his private matter. So he schedules it without prior arrangements with the board members to keep the board held without agreeing with those he invites to attend, as if no one has any job. Perhaps the chairman of that committee has no other business but to run a party policy through the assembly boards, but it is certain that the ministers and other representatives of the authorities have other obligations and cannot be invited in such a way and that, afterwards, it is their refusal to take account of what they are doing before the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63908	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63909	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, I have a question for Mr. Vuk Jeremic's foreign minister. I agree with the predecessor, with a colleague who called for seriousness. How serious it is in the work of the state authorities in these dramatic days, when in one part of the territory of Serbia people are wounded, with the tendency to be killed, it is so serious that in the Assembly, respecting all proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, legal proposals on the agenda, it remains for citizens to assess what is most important at this time and what should be spoken of by the Assembly. I think it's a little hypocritical and false to call on the seriousness of the moment, given what's going on at the Foreign Ministry. I ask Mr. President of the Tennis Union of Serbia, I apologize, Minister of Foreign Affairs of our country – what is true of what the media are writing, and that in recent months, not to mention the year, is happening in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? We have information that our main, or only negotiator, who did not show national MPs or the public in Serbia the authority to speak on behalf of the Serbian state today in Brussels. Is it true that he was transferred to a pigeon shop, writing very serious daily papers, and does this mean that he was a pigeon of peace and that he flew to Brussels today? Is it true that there were physical accounts between the foreign minister and the political director of the foreign ministry and how serious it is that the political director of the foreign ministry of our country negotiates with representatives of the so-called. Independent Kosovo countries? Is it true that there is a conflict of interest, since one of the main officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and father of other Borko Stefanovic? When we add all of this together and subtract, the respected citizens of Serbia, we should all understand together who is negotiating on behalf of Serbia. As a National MP, I have sought on various committees, and I ask this occasion to be publicly said that Mr. Borislav Stefanovic shows paper, not only orally, who has authorized him to speak at all on behalf of the Serbian state and who will then be bound by this alleged agreement that he will reach there? Given that the National Assembly has not declared itself and that Mr. Borislav Stefanovic does not have the mandate of the most important representative body in every country that pleads democratic, and we all claim together that we are a democratic state, so there is no authority, no platform, no resolution or declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the question arises, in the days to come, given all that is happening in one part of our country's territory, and this is now the north of KIM, whom will be bound by this paper and who will be obliged if it is extremely unfavourable for our country, who will undertake to act on this paper? I hope that Mr. Jeremic will answer this question quickly, given the dramatic situation and the moments that are happening to our people in the north of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63910	Thank you. What I can do at this point, it's just to tell you that Mr. Bork's father, Vasilija Stefanovic, is an honorary New Sad pensioner. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Sinisa Stamenkovic, Esad Djudjevic, Vitomir Mihajlović, Zoran Nikolic and Sasa Dujovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that Ms Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, for the search in detail on items 2 and 3 of the agenda, has called for today's session, in addition to the representative of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, to attend: Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior and Head of the Ministry of Emergency at the MUP; Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and Jasmina Stanojevic, Head of the Department for Normal Affairs at the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda: A PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS ON EXECUTIVE SITUATIONS Please don't throw Mrs. Verice Radet away, because there's no need for that. The Rules of Procedure are being violated and the order is being disrupted. The word will be received by Mr Nemanja Sarovic, who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63911	Mr. Novakovic, a member of the 27th and that is, you injured him in a work that he says – the president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. You have just allowed Mrs. Nadia Kolundzija to use this time you have given her the right, i.e. in accordance with Article 286. Use not as Article 286 says that she is asking for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, ministers, etc. on issues within the framework of the rights and responsibilities of these officials, but has allowed her to abuse it and to present some untruths about the work of the Committee on KIM and its president, Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic. In accordance with Article 82, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure concerning the meeting of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly if these Rules of Procedure are not otherwise specified. So, as you do, Mr. Novakovic, in accordance with Articles 27 and other members who regulate your rights, you shall conduct that session, determine the course, schedule, interrupt, etc., so does Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic. So, your claim, Mrs. Kolundjia, that the Committee should plead whether or not the Committee's session is absolutely pointless. She's not in line with the Rules of Procedure that you brought. You've changed it five times. Each of the following is more rigid than the previous one, but even that is not foreseen by this Rules of Procedure. So it's just about the self-will of the ruling coalition and that you don't like to discuss the KIM situation. The meeting of the KIM Committee was suspended because the negotiating team, in accordance with its obligations and commitments, did not deliver the written text of the Agreement to the National Assembly within 10 days of its agreement. People’s MPs cannot catch stenographic notes, nor is the National Assembly a place where we can discuss it on the basis of someone’s oral words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63912	Thank you. There is no violation of the provisions of Article 27, nor of any of the present, nor of the chairman, shall he have the right to influence the Members of the People, in which manner and from whom he shall ask. If anyone has injured the Rules of Procedure, you have currently injured him because you have used the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 paragraph 1 to essentially replicate, and you know that it is in that part of the session you have indicated forbidden, or that it cannot be applied. Therefore, I ask you not to do so in the future, and you will find all the answers in the stenogram and in the part where the President of the Assembly, of whom the notice has been requested by Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, is delivered. You have no right to a replica. We're done, I said it's your right to explain the way you're going to talk. You spoke, and that's what we're done with. Replica is causing a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no basis for any replica. I'll give you my word if you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you very much for understanding. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čović, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Buha, Mirko Munjic, Milorad Krstin, Bozidar Delić, Milovar Radovan, Sreto Perić, Vitomir Plužarević, Goran Mihajlović, Radiša Ilic, Radisa Rada Rade and Nemanja Šarović. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63913	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled this amendment with a proposal to take into account above all the norms provided for in the applicable law, because in the applicable law it is also regulated, but otherwise. However, when it comes to these emergency headquarters, I have the highest confidence that it is the authority of the internal affairs authorities, because if you go from the local community, the municipalities, the provinces, the city to the Republic, in practice not one organ other than internal affairs, the emergency resistor, no one has consistently treated or treated those people who have suffered damage, to those risks and dangers that have caused certain natural disasters, such as flooding, such as anti-urban protection, such as the earthquake, such as environmental protection, especially in those environments where the chemical industry is located, which is your case with Pancheva. Panchevo often needs to be in an emergency situation, I mean continuously, because the government of the Republic of Serbia does not take appropriate measures to protect the environment in Panchev. Thousands of people die of cancer annually on average, because the situation is unbearable from the aspect of environmental protection in which this service and these headquarters should play a decisive role. As far as anti-urban protection is concerned, it is not well-organised, because the competent emergency services on their part, Mr. Maric from the ministry and the people working in that vault show first and foremost the will and willingness to improve certain things, resuscitate and help citizens when they need it most. However, the state authorities, and above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this direction is not helping to the extent that this portfolio and this service should be in a position to protect the state, the state interest, protect citizens and their lives and their property. As far as the bill is concerned, this law contains certain norms that are repeated under the law that apply. It wasn't necessary, in my opinion, so many lists of different definitions by this law, because you have a situation, an example works, Articles 14 and 13. The current Emergency Act of Article 38 proposes a number of amendments and adds new definitions, introduces new provisions that link the coordination of the work of various headquarters, from the municipality, the city to the Republic and the province. For example, in the applicable law, you have seven points and seven norms. The proposal adds 19 other provisions to this law. I think this was supposed to be regulated by most of the sublaws. Because if there are seven provisions in force in the law, and another 19 are added, these 19 provisions could be resolved by means of a sublaw of the interior minister and the emergency sector. This is how the law is burdened, it's loaded with definitions, it's coordinating organization, it's planning, it's considering, it's reporting, it's monitoring, it's tracking, it's not counting who's reporting, who's controlling and who's following. This could have been shortened in two sentences, that the headquarters of the municipality, the province, the city and the Republic were obliged to plan, execute, inform, and the competent interior ministry, i.e. Emergency sector to coordinate and control. This way, I'm afraid that these prescriptions, that one member should contain so many provisions 30, that's not common in law-making and their regulation. I'm afraid this won't be easy to implement in practice. What is characteristic and the other thing that has been seen and observed in practice, many of our laws, you have 700 laws that this Parliament has passed over the last three and a half years, except for other sublegal acts and contracts, about 400. This has not been passed by any parliament in the world in such a short time by so many regulations and laws. Now, the promoters, it's not just you gentlemen from the Ministry, it's all the legislators who propose this law, it's the least of your business. If it were an impact prize, in a world of greater impact, no one would have had the effect of such as proposing the adoption of a number of laws in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They should have salaries 500 times higher, because they did what they say, valuablely, rolled up their sleeves, laws are proposed, laws are prepared by people who don't have above all, they have modest certain expertise, a law is passed within a month of this Parliament delivering a new draft law on amendments and additions, and not a single member has yet been applied, and these numerous laws will be only dust collectors in the record archives. When a good law is done, then it must be accessed first of all, by its real regulation of the norm. Norma must be clear, norms must have sanctions, norms must be applicable in practice. What does the Ministry of the Interior and Resor face for emergency situations? He faces many obstacles and many problems, because no official, no member of the government, nor others, leaders who are responsible from the municipality to the Republic are willing to come out to help the citizens, because they are willing to go to take pictures, to take two couches to the King, ten blankets, and to take away a thousand blocks and turn out to be paid out of their own pocket. And they don't pay for it, they go to the King and elsewhere for their promotion and advertising. Is it disputed that tax bonds pay for it? It's not a dispute. You now see ministers and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the provinces and cities and municipalities, as they were worth the last six months before the elections. We're going into election year, now they're worth cutting ribbons when it takes a 50-metre sidewalk to open. It's just promoting individuals. But those people who work in the field are given little attention to them, and those workers, those people who work day and night to solve the consequences, are least advertised. There are safe houses opening up, there are streets opening up, there are roads opening up, that's all it takes, but when something like that needs to be revealed, as our enemies from The Hague tribunal say, if it has to be revealed that someone made a shed in the local community, there's the prime minister, the minister of the Republic and the province to run to paint and to make an ad to their party. Gentlemen of the MUP, I would like to ask you to give us a report on how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the 2010 and 2011 budget has allocated and identified financial resources to remove the effects of the earthquake, from the city, from the floods and how much damage it has done to citizens, and how much damage the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its zombuls that care about people who cannot sleep, how much it has allocated funds for anti-urban protection and for the purchase of missiles, and how many Mercedes they have, how much expensive audiences and cars they have. When it comes to the agenda for the MUP, I will suggest that all ministers, except for the President of the Republic and the Government, be lifted physically. Their cars are lifted, their team is abolished, their tourist trips lifted, their many drivers, secretaries and cooks and escorts on their official journeys. If it is abolished, it will be a reserve of money as much as you want to provide protection against construction protection in order to eliminate the elemental disasters of our citizens and our needs. That's why I'd like you to give us that answer. I'm asking a question, and I'm asking for an answer, how many rockets were provided and supplies were obtained, how much one cost, and how much damage was done. To remind you, this summer was an elementary disaster, and there was a truly wave of South Banat, which, due to cities and city clouds, destroyed agriculture in the municipalities of Pančevo, Kovina and others, but only in the territory of the Pančeva three billion dinars, it was a shame that the Pančevs from Milic Mountains to Grocko were not protected by rockets from the city. Now imagine, I couldn't right now because I don't have the exact details of how much one rocket costs, just in the municipality of Panchea three billion dinars. For three billion dinars, please calculate how many rockets we could buy. The government promises you, you're on strike. Now it's just what the law says, this was a law order, but it's all gonna come down to your shoulders. You have the will and the willingness and the expertise, but you have no means with what, because the government in your budget defines funds for anti-building protection and elemental disasters, but where is the placement of these funds, where did these funds go, who spent them, did someone spend them for non-purpose purposes, because we have a situation where ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not purposefully using billions of dinars? You know what happened? For the purposeless use of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, a misdemeanor is considered. Where does that say? Do these people know there's a Criminal Code? No, I don't. They don't touch the minister, not by any chance. What the Serbian Radical Party is asking the current authority is that it is responsible for treating farmers, winemakers, gardeners, fruit farmers and all others who are engaged in agriculture, without the protection of farmers, subsidies to farmers, without the aid of the state of farmers, without cheaper tractors and connected machines, without cheaper repromaterials and without help and without coordination in production, purchase and placement. Gentlemen of the Ministry, you have an extraordinary role, a difficult task, but the question is raised, we see that the citizens of farmers, especially the rabbles, fruit trees, and that I don't list the people who deal with vegetables, Banatski Brestovac, for example, destroyed everything, the other people are without a yellow bank. Neither the municipality of Panchevo nor the city did anything, they did not give the yellow bank to the villagers of Banatski Brestovac. The province didn't give the yellow bank. The Republic of Serbia has not given the yellow bank, and we want to say on all the bells now - we want to protect citizens, taxpayers, we want to help farmers, we want to give subsidies, we want to lend loans. What loans? What subsidies? Where would that be? They just rip their skin out, nothing else. In Serbia, citizens can produce so many billions in fruit, vegetables and meat, that this country, if we turn to agriculture, and protect farmers from outside tycoons, such as tycoons that they have stumbled upon Vojvodina. They bought the Croatian tycoons the most fertile Serbian land on the territory of the northern province. Gentlemen of the Ministry, it is your task to manage as you know, but you must report to us, but give us this response, regarding the damage and related to the specified funds, which did not help the government secure anti-building protection? We'll continue later, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63914	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63915	Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act provides for the possibility of education of the circuit headquarters for emergency situations, and in this direction I went with the amendment in terms of some clearer formulation than it is in the law. Namely, what you have stated in Article 5 is normally in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to allow for a general legal formulation of education of the circuit board, in this case for emergency situations, however, I proposed that the name of the head above Article 14 be changed and that it be read as follows: "The jurisdiction of the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina, Kosovo and Kosovo and Metohija, the unit of local self-government" and that the proposed positions 1, 2 and 3 become positions 2, 3 and 4. Why is this right-technical correction important? Because in the legal system, as a rule, when it comes to the provinces, we have a situation like this, an autonomous province. Even in some laws, we only mention the AP Vojvodina. What is the task of the state in this situation, since Kosovo and Metohija are the worst forms of emergency? Do you now, given the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, have one man on your republican committee who cares and receives information, co-ordinates with the province's committee? Is there a circuit headquarters for emergency situations? It doesn't exist. It is because there is a war situation, because the most difficult form of discrimination against Serbs and terrorists over Serbs is that the state's task is that it must exist at the MUP, at the Republican headquarters, one department that will deal with the problem. Why didn't you do it? This clearly speaks of the seriousness of this state, it clearly speaks of that we have left Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to the verse, so be it to them. That's why the reaction came and these same citizens are looking for Russia's citizenship. Why? Well, they're looking for the support of whoever wants to help, who's a proven friend of the Serb people, and especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because intensive, diplomatic activities and state activities of the Russian Federation have what we have now. It's a difficult situation. This country does nothing. What does it mean to you now that, within the Republic headquarters, you have two people out there who care? Are there no fires, floods and other emergency situations in Kosovo? There is. The question is, why don't we have a circuit board? In response you clearly told me – the amendment is not accepted because it is legally technically correct to use the unity, given that the Autonomous province is a constitutional category. Great. Then why didn't you end it, form it either in Kosovo and Metohija what is your obligation, if it can't for objective reasons, then it can come here at the Republic Emergency Headquarters? You've got to work this out. You don't solve it, which is the worst. That's what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija know and that's why they say -- we want Russia's citizenship. The same was done by the Republika Srpska Government Assembly in 2009. We asked the declarations to be granted citizenship by the Russian Federation, only because we are not satisfied with the policy of this state, the state institutions, because nothing has been done in terms of our physical return to Croatia and the return of our property, social and any other rights. The dissatisfaction with Serbian politics is present both in Kosovo and with Serbs from Republika Srpska. They are the same dimensions, dissatisfaction, because the state is doing nothing to restore everything that belongs to every Serb. Discrimination is at every turn. Discrimination must be corrected by your clear state actions. Here's a concrete example. Form down the circuit headquarters like you wrote here. That's what this law and the Constitution oblige you to do. If you can't go there, you can go here in Belgrade, but you know what the task of this department is or some other organisational unit at the MUP and full coordination with Serbs there and you've satisfied the form, but also the essence of everything that's defined by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63916	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63917	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the amendment to Milorad Buhe is not the only and the plural, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has indicated, but its view that the title should clearly state the names of the two Autonomous provinces. Due to the fact that the government has rejected this amendment, for no reasonable reason, am I in a dilemma whether we today have an emergency situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Is it in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those who wrote this law and those who should apply the existing law, is this what happens to kiM an emergency? According to what's going on in the field, it is. According to what it says in the basic law and what it says in this bill, it is. However, when there is an emergency situation, then all state resources are engaged to overcome the emergency situation. We have a situation here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been avoiding for a month to request a session of the National Assembly and we have a situation that the president of the National Assembly for a month avoids the Assembly discussing the state of the KIM. Secondly, I wonder if this amendment to the law will remain unapplicable when it comes to KIM territory? Why isn't this existing law applied? Why, as asked by fellow Milorad Buh, there is no circuit headquarters to deal with the situation in the north of KIM? Yesterday, NATO pact soldiers, according to Minister Bogdanovic, shot Serbs at the barricades at KIM, and the Serbian Parliament discussed for three hours, imagine, co-operation in protecting the environment with Azerbaijan, with an Asian country that is nearly 3,000km away from Serbia. Only one thing can be concluded from this, that there is currently no emergency situation for the government of the Republic of Serbia in KIM in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is only one reasonable solution here – either you have to put this law, which already exists, or you have to withdraw this bill, so the law must be amended or the government has to change, which would be even better, or the Government, the Assembly and the Constitutional Court would have to publicly declare that the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not apply to that same government. I'm just curious as to how it's possible that the flood in Tutin, Novi Pazar, the Shop, the flood in Krupanj, seems to me to have been an emergency situation, to declare an emergency situation, and not to declare what's going on on at KIM? We have a situation where they've been killing people down there for a month, shooting at them. We've got more than a hundred injured. The government is pretending, like the one who stuck his head in the sand, waiting for the danger to pass. Next, I would like to draw attention again to the government's oversight in this law, ignoring the most extraordinary situation possible, which is the state of war and the danger of terrorist attacks. True, Article 1 that speaks of the matter governed by this law mentions terrorism both war and other disasters. But afterwards, the government hid these concepts under the idea of elemental disasters. Let me tell you what it says in "The Dictionary of Foreign Words and Expressions" of Milan Vujaklia – a specific elemental explanation: "Natural Power, Styria, Accident", and the specific elemental disaster is the following explanation: "Storm, Wind, Hurricane, Orcan, Flood", which means, in general, an accident caused by natural forces. As much as my memory serves, I have not heard that some war has caused natural forces. Wars cause people, and it is clear from this that war cannot be put into the category of elemental disasters. The same attitude is the second most famous Balkan linguist Hrvat Bratoljub Klajic, Croatian of Serbian origin. We have the following situation - 250 kilometers from here we have a practically semi-war situation. Part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia occupied. NATO troops and these Shipatarian terrorists are shooting at the Serb people, for example, working under completely emergency circumstances. There is a threat of normal teaching in primary and secondary schools. The work of health care institutions is at risk. The supply of basic foods to the population has been compromised. There are more and more pronounced power restrictions. There is no freedom of movement because the occupiers have closed the roads from KIM to Serbia's interior. Recently in Belgrade, we had a trial of Wahhabis preparing to perform terrorist actions. Ten days ago, we had a case where a Serbian citizen committed a terrorist attack on the US Embassy in Sarajevo. In the north of KIM, we have a situation that is one step closer to war, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing a law on emergency situations in which it does not mention emergency situations as a consequence of war events and the consequences of terrorist danger. Serbia's government acts as if war danger does not exist, as if Serbia would never war again, as if KIM were not 350 away from Serbia, but 350,000 kilometers away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63918	The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63919	Article 14 and the title above this article and your non-acceptance of the SRS amendment, which explains that it is some legal-technical editorial that best speaks of the true intentions of Tadic's regime. The intention is that you slowly through the laws you pass and formally give up KIM and Serbs at KIM. I must remind you, in the context of the explanation of this amendment, that the four months of the SRS' interpretation of the problems at KIM, in light of the events that have been happening there lately. There is no question about the debate in parliament on the subject. Just as much our request is present in parliament to hold a parliamentary session in Kosovo, Mitrovica. In the first half of October, the SRS asked parliament to discuss the so-called report. the negotiating team in accordance with the Declaration adopted in Parliament on 31 July of this year and on the basis of this Declaration, the so-called The negotiating team was scheduled to submit a report to parliament by 31 October of this year at the latest. You all don't care about that, as you don't care that the Serbs are killing at KIM, and then Tadic comes out with a high mind and asks that both Serbs and EULEX representatives settle down. Serbs naked, frozen, guard Serbia instead of the regime, instead of Boris Tadic. Eulex armed to the teeth and he calls, sir, to calm down both. Scandal. It has something to do with the amendment, Mr. Novakovic. The title above this Article 14 reads – the jurisdiction of the autonomous province of the unit of local self-government. We insisted it was the jurisdiction of the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and KIM and the unit of local self-government. Our proposal is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And what the unwary government says - the amendment is not accepted, for the reason that it is technically correctly used by the unit, given that the autonomous province is a constitutional category. Well, gentlemen, darlings, the constitutional category is local self-government. So what is not the title – the jurisdiction of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government? No, you've accepted that we have units of local self-government in the plural, and an autonomous province in the one. You can already see how loud speakers are coming to you and asking for the Autonomous province of Vojvodina to slowly move towards secession. This is a disgrace and a disgrace to what you do. This is what Tadic's regime does, as much as it bothers the representatives of the authorities, so they react to every expression they don't like, it can't be called, this is the violation of the Constitution, this is the neglect of the work of their people and the work of their territory, it can't be called anything other than treason. Boris Tadic and his regime are traitors and a traitor regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63920	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63921	This amendment concerns Article 7. Proposal for an emergency law. Article 7 states that Article 30 following Article 2 adds a new position 3 – the emergency situation is lifted by the end of the danger, i.e. the need to implement measures to protect and rescue natural disasters and other accidents. In this proposal, you tie an emergency situation to two things. The first thing is the danger created by a particular case. Another thing is the need to implement measures of protection and rescue. With my amendment, I asked that the emergency situation may cease once the reasons for which it was introduced have ceased. It's a more comprehensive norm. It is more comprehensive because it predicts that the emergency situation will last, and since this first danger is over, this immediate danger will last for as long as there is a need for it, that is, while there are reasons for it. For example, in the event of an earthquake, this immediate danger is the danger that exists right after those first strikes. Right? But the emergency situation has to be there much longer than that. In a particular case, it must exist as long as there is a clearing, while there is a danger that beneath these ruins there are people. The emergency situation must last as long as these reasons have been put in place. In this particular case, it was introduced because it has ruins, because there are victims under those ruins. As long as these reasons persist, there must be an emergency situation, and only as long as the danger as you foresee in the proposal of this Article 7 is sustained. Another question that opens up – is there a greater danger and a greater need for an emergency situation than that of the KIM situation? You keep your eyes closed before the brutal abduction of 15% of state territory. You are obliged to form headquarters and below, and this is binding on you, this law, on KIM, and to make an appointment immediately for the KIM assembly. Not by discussing the KIM situation here in the Serbian Parliament, you are practically selling 15% of state-owned territory for some worthless paper, which is so worthless, a paper on EU candidacy, about a cancerous plant that is extruding. Make an appointment for the KIM assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63922	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Christin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Maric, as head of the Emergency Administration when you made amendments and amendments to this law, and we submitted amendments, you should nevertheless interpret these amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group as they would improve the law, i.e. a proposal to amend and supplement the Emergency Law. Personally, I think you should have accepted some amendments, if not all, at least some. In particular, Article 8(2), which is in that old Emergency Act, Article 32, which reads this - a decision to abolish the emergency situation on the proposal of the competent emergency staff, is taken by the authority which, and I ask it to be deleted, which has made a decision to declare an emergency situation, because the same decision is being replaced. The point is that whoever brings it, i.e. Advise an emergency, logically, that he should be the one and that he should put an end to it. So I've only written one other sentence that you've written, and you write it in -- I've made a decision. Short and clear. In fact, the amendment is more precisely defined. There's nothing else I wanted to break in the amendments to the Emergency Act. This is a very important law. Gentlemen, this is a law that regulates certain things especially when it comes to weather accidents affecting agriculture. Given that I am very good at dealing with this matter, I have to tell you something that you must do, Mr. Maric, which is that it is slowly going through public information services for the citizens of Serbia, that it seems that we will also have to lift the anti-urban stations, because EU regulations do not allow anti-building stations. You know, they're used to flying paragliders. So that a rocket that reaches a height of six thousand meters may not damage that paraglider. It doesn't matter that, or God forbid, that Boying 747, it doesn't matter that one part of the sovereign state of Serbia may be struck by the storm, and the poor Serbian paor will again experience an accident, as we had last year. I don't want to talk about the earthquake. That's what my colleagues will talk about. But I have to say about this second, that somehow you see how and what to do next. It turns out that 2015 will be the end of the anti-building stations. I'm telling you it won't be feasible, because against this system you have to buy planes that are trained to fly above the clouds and then, through special substances, destroy that city, which, by falling down on the ground, will destroy agricultural crops. These anti-urban stations were held by volunteers for four to five thousand a month. We were supposed to have 35,000 rockets over the year. I don't know now, according to some information, that you have about nine or ten thousand. But I have to tell you that even those anti-urban missiles, when in time they are notified, those who operate those anti-urban stations or those missile systems, are being destroyed by these city clouds that are doing this huge damage. You know, in 2010, we're aware of the changes in climate conditions on earth. Here, that's slowly hit the Balkans, that's Serbia, so we have one year that's rainy, with very bad weather conditions, with the city, we have next year, when I'm talking about 2010, we have 2011, when they had a dry year. These are all emergency situations. It's just that when one part of Serbia's territory, Mr. Maric, does not worry about coming to see how specific the county is, don't give God to the municipalities, and when you come to the county, then know how much damage there is to registered agricultural land. That's where you have to take care. I'll mention it in 2010, now it's Banatski County, not to mention the settlements that hit that Central Banatian district. They're totally destroyed, especially when it comes to crops called sunflower. The heads that were supposed to be crushed in a week, two, three days began with the harvest, destroyed. Some villages suffered such damage that ticks flew from home. From 200 to 700 pieces per household. The crops were destroyed. There's some help coming from a ten-pound household, I.E. Fifteen thousand units of corn to compensate for the damage. What are these council headquarters doing? I didn't notice in Central Banat County that last year anyone got any damages. Chards, wheels, as they are called, were torn down under the corn. Butts worn to the neighbor's. You know what a shed looks like where a farmer keeps his machinery? Taken to a neighbor, not one, over 20. I told you every house suffered from at least 200 to 700 creps. Help has arrived, Mr. Maricu, in the value of a bag of corn seed that costs 15,000 units or grains. If this law is the law, the law is passed, but if you bring these amendments and additions to the law now, at least let these headquarters work. What are they doing there? Do I, as a folk MP, need to intervene for the Middle Banatian County to get some anti-urban missiles? However, it is respected by the anti-urban stations, and what will those districts that do not have or the MPs not help in this regard? What's going on? One late launch of missiles in the anti-citizen cell system destroys several thousand acres. Of course, if there are anti-urban missiles. You have short range missiles, medium range and long range. The EU says you can't. You want rockets to shoot at people who are paragliders walking through the sky of Serbia. I can't say anything against it, but don't let someone lose all the profits they've imagined because of the palaglider, that they can normally live that household off those agricultural areas. By 2010, the wheat harvest was such that the combiners were bending, putting caterpillars on wheels to enter the field to reap the wheat. That's what happened right here in the Banatian Census. A colleague says it was in Srem and the Sword. He doesn't know, he's got to pick up what he's produced, he's got to part, he's got to take, unfortunately, the seed, he's got both the fertilizer and the fuel in the natural exchange. You know who's getting that from. Therefore, you must absolutely take care of it, you must be present in this law, but to be present on the ground as well. You'll hear from his colleagues, his district has hit an earthquake, as much as it's done. You need to intervene. If you're the Chief of Emergency Services, Mr. Maric, don't be on paper. I didn't say you were on paper now, but the good part seems to be because you depend, as the law says here – and for the subsequent damages that have been caused, and therefore there is this law. When you do, it'll be something positive. Please don't shut down the anti-urban stations. Climate change is everywhere in the world, thanks to disrespect for the preservation of the environment, especially the United States. If I didn't talk about that 1999 in Serbia, then we're already going into another topic, and I don't want the vice president of the Assembly to warn me about it. Therefore, Mr. Maric, follow the situation, take care of what those in charge of headquarters are doing in the field. Then there will be no criticism, but God bless you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63924	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63925	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're not going to SNS on such an important law. The basic law and amendments to this law go in the proposal and context of the improvement of this law, although in this situation it is to deal with the daily political needs at this time, as well as with amendments we have tried to primarily normative, technical and linguistic and legal harmonisation of parts of the amendments and additions, i.e. the shortcomings that the basic law in the period from 2009 to the day in the implementation showed. As for article 7, which I haven't been able to contact, we don't think the emergency situation can be lifted by the end of the threat, as you say. In order for an emergency situation to exist, it may as a phenomenon exist, but a decision is made. The decision is lifted. You can't put an end to the phenomenon. The phenomenon is in itself a elemental accident, it is a phenomenon, so for these normative technical reasons we should have accepted that the decision to declare can be abolished, because it too is made, an emergency situation, and an emergency as an elemental accident or an occurrence in the environment. Also, as regards Article 9, i.e. Article 33, which deals with the management of emergency situations, where paragraph 1, is spoken - for the coordination and management of protection and rescue in emergency situations in accordance with this law and other regulations. The very term – handling, in the operational sense, implies coordination, i.e. coordination and the word "coordination" and our request for a change in language terms and relatively real words with coordination will not appear. I'm taking the opportunity to point that out to you right now. There is no reason when the term is mentioned, the term - the handling of protection and rescue in emergency situations, in a tactical operational sense means the coordination of all levels of management by hierarchy, starting with the Republic headquarters, and in this context, it is good that the amendments and additions of this law are made, because even some of the shortcomings, which are in terms of the anti-urban protection that were spoken of in this part, I hope will be better quality solved, since your sector will also assume these obligations. So far, we cannot accuse you of some wrong regulations, attitudes, lack of regulations, attitudes and legal powers that this government has not brought, and in particular we cannot accuse you, ministry people, of the lack of budgetary resources, but we ask you, as people who run certain sectors and who have the opportunity to meet these situations on the ground, to influence the situation for the 2012 budget, especially in the part of agricultural or anti-urban protection to be adequately represented. I hope, given the changes and additions to this law, that in this context they will later go and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63926	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63927	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the amendments that we Serbian radicals have submitted, and it is a member of the 10th in Article 34 of the current law, everything is contained which would be necessary and necessary formally. Because you have the proposed standard in Article 10 to add point 2a to Article 34. You see, and here it is repeated: the guides, the coordinators, the funerals. That's what you have in article 34 of the applicable law. Gentlemen of the Ministry, since you're proposing, will you explain to me what it means in terms of emergency rehabilitation? We had the Rehabilitation Act yesterday, and there's no room for rehabilitation here. She doesn't mean anything. She's your empty norm. Either I don't know or you know better, but explain it to us. As far as I'm concerned, I know very well that in the Emergency Law there shouldn't be a norm of rehabilitation. It can be a reconstruction, it can be a rescue, it can be a management, it can be coordination, it can be a mission issue, it can be planning, but I don't think rehab in the law, which is about emergency situations, there's absolutely no room. Consider that. As far as I'm concerned, this stays, it'll be just one hollow norm that doesn't matter at all. So consider and decide whether you accept this amendment or not. If you do not accept it, give an appropriate explanation, because the explanation given by the Government absolutely has nothing to do with it. He's talking here in accordance with some agreements, and we're talking about concrete measures in emergency situations. What is Serbia and what have Serbian citizens done to rehabilitate something? A person who is criminally-legally deprived of certain rights is rehabilitated, so that only those rights should be returned to the original state, in order to compensate for the damage, the one he suffered. Otherwise, I believe that this amendment, first of all, is effective, improves the text and casts out one hollow norm that is an empty norm, and does not mean anything. Say, there's an earthquake or there's a town. What are you going to rehabilitate? You can't rehabilitate, just to remove the adverse effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63928	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Popović Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63929	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm responding to the amendment of my colleague, Bozidar Delic, and I'm going to tell you something that Milorad Kristin mentioned around the Colubary County. This law we're talking about today has already been passed. Now they're on the agenda to amend and supplement that law. Regardless of the law on emergency situations and amendments and additions to this law will be passed, this law is not fully applied in practice. I'll give you an example from the Colubary County. The Kolubar district hit an earthquake in 1998 and 1999, and in 2000, the whole of Serbia when DOS came to power. One of the objectives of this law is to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters. The consequences of natural disasters from the Kolubar district have been eliminated for 12 or 13 years. I will remind citizens and the public that in 1998 and 1990, 24.185 houses were damaged in Kolubar County, and most of the facilities died in the municipality of Valjevo, then in the municipality of Mininica, which was the epicenter of the earthquake, in the municipality of Ljig, Ub, Lajkovac and Osecina. So far, there are no accurate data on how many objects have been restored, but half of the facilities are said to have been restored. I'll give you an example from Mionica. A total of 6,420 houses were damaged. By 2000 864 houses were built, and 1.154 was renovated, totalling 2,018 houses. I note that it was a period of one and a half years when the SRS participated in the republican government. After that, only 384 houses in the municipality of Mininica were built for 11 years. That's why I said that in 2000, the whole of Serbia was a natural disaster. This basically means that this intensification of the construction of the DOS government would take the next 30 years. They realized it, just as people realized they would be deceived, that from their houses that were torn down in the earthquake 12 or 13 years ago there would be nothing. The Directorate has made a decision to make so-called. Zero list. The damaged people rushed to the municipalities to submit new demands to meet up with so - called. Zero list. Then they had to pull out all kinds of certificates, and-lists, their own papers, and that cost them on average between two and four thousand dinars. If you can't do those houses, I'd ask you to compensate them for the damage caused by making a new so-called. Zero sheets, to give them back the money they had to pay for various photocopies, taxes, a-lists, possession-lists. That would be fair of you. In order to make it clear to everyone that they will not get anything from the government that it has come to light and that it has abolished the Department for Construction and Development of the Kolubara District affected by the earthquake and established the Agency for Infrastructure Development and Social Housing Building. The name itself says that they won't get anything anymore. When it was a national rescue strategy in emergency situations, I spoke, and now I repeat that Dragan Jeremic, director of the Kolubar County Reconstruction Directorate, and Minister Dulic agreed to lift all priorities for building and introducing social building. Where do two of them get the right to turn an earthquake into a social category, when it's an elemental disaster that has hit everything more or less in a row? I was also talking about the damage caused by the floods in Ljig municipality. Only the last flood, which took place in May this year, was estimated at 641 million dinars of damage. Of these, the municipality of Ljig received only 10 million from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The damage caused by the city is estimated at billions of dinars, and who is to blame for the damage caused by the city? Why aren't the missiles bought? If the earthquake cannot be predicted, when it will happen, where it will happen, how intense that earthquake will be, then the anti-urban missiles can be acquired, because if they are not used for one year, they can be used next year, if necessary. This way, the damage to war cultures is immeasurable. All that the farmers had invested until then, they went into recovery. If you take into account the difficult situation of peasants because of the abnormally high cost of artificial garbage, seeds, oil that is most expensive in Europe, they have been brought to ruin. The bottom line is we have an irresponsible government that doesn't take care of farmers. Why does the government not keep its promises regarding compensation for the damage to the peasants resulting from the city? If they don't keep those promises and they won't make it up to them, I suggest something else. Why not give the farmer 10,000 euros of grants per household, as you give 10,000 euros per employee to companies coming from the EU? What Dinkic invented. Give the peasant 10,000 euros to restore his mechanization, so that he can plant his fields and see how effective it will be - gentlemen of the government, the citizens expect you to pay your bills, say what you have done so far, not that you speak as if you are an opposition to what you will do when you come to power. They only ask you to keep your promises. That's the only way you would show that you care about the fate of damaged citizens, damaged peasants and all those who trusted you when you came to power in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63930	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63931	Mr. Novakovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, my basis for reporting is the replica, but I can also use the time of the parliamentary club after the amendment that has just been discussed. About the findings and opinions that we could hear from a colleague who had just spoken, I can agree on only one thing, and that is that everyone should bear the burden, or responsibility he has taken. Dear colleagues, I will immediately tell you, since you have addressed the parliamentary majority representatives, that the SPS as part of the ruling coalition, part of the parliamentary majority in Serbia, is always ready to bear responsibility for what it has taken responsibility for. First of all, I have come to you about the findings that have just been made, which are simply not true, but first of all I have to tell you if you believe that the amendments to the Emergency Law that we are talking about today will solve the issue of rebuilding and rebuilding and rehabilitating the destroyed objects and houses in the territory of the Colubary County. Please propose an amendment, we will be very happy to vote and support this amendment and to address the issue of reconstruction, construction, rehabilitation of these facilities and houses destroyed in the devastating earthquake that hit the Kolubar County in 1998. Propose an amendment, we will be very happy to support such an amendment. (President: Only without direct address, please. ) This law refers to amendments and additions to the Emergency Act and elemental disasters, and I ask you to talk about it. A series of false findings has been expressed. It is not true that the Directorate for Reconstruction and Development of Objects and Houses has been shut down in the earthquake in 1998. It's not true that an agency was created that is supposed to be involved in social housing. Believe me, that's the first time I've heard of it, and I'm an MP who's also coming from the Colubary County territory. It is not true that you do not know how many objects have been renovated and built from 1998 to today. It is only one thing that some 1500 buildings were built and renovated during the 2000 period. I wouldn't boast of ignorance if you were an MP coming from the Colubary County area. I think the subject is absolutely missed and it wasn't mentioned earlier on about the amendment that was proposed. I suggest that all of this we have just had the opportunity to listen to, formulate a quality amendment when it comes to that time, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I've been proposing this kind of amendment a few years ago. I don't see anyone in the parliamentary group who spoke for a while supported such an amendment. Dear colleague, I suggest you propose an amendment, convince your colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club to support that amendment, the SPS Parliament Club will support it, and I agree with you to finally resolve the issue of rebuilding and rehabilitating the destroyed facilities in the territory of the Colubary County. It is not good that it lasts for 12 - 13 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63932	Thank you. Please, no direct address. If we are to draw attention to the fact that the discussion has gone beyond the course of the amendment and beyond the subject, please do not continue in that direction, because it cannot lead us and bring us closer to the topic and during this session. Mr. Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63933	I just want to thank my colleague Milicevic, because he praised the SRS in his discussion. Sam said that the most objects were done during the period when the SRS was in the republican government, which our president Dr. Vojislav Seselj pawned it. The second thing I'm saying is, Col. Milicevic needs to turn on the computer and find, there's everything on the site that his colleague from the ruling majority, director of the Kolubar County Reconstruction Directorate, said. He can read from counterpart Milicevic that it is true that they have abolished the Directorate, to establish agencies, zero lists. Come to the field to see how happy people are with your decision to turn the earthquake into so-called earthquake. social category.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63934	Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63935	Of course, no one contests your legitimate right to represent the SRS' views and you should represent them and promote them. You don't have to tell the truth through that. Another lie... (President: direct address again. Please don't talk directly anymore, but discuss the subject. ) It is not true that the Directorate for Reconstruction and Development of Objects and Houses has been abolished in 1998. I'm glad, pal, you're using the computer, but you're not reading it the right way. Please show me the decision that has been lifted from the Directorate, do it now, because I see you're very well prepared and you say you have all the information. Go out with the data and boast of knowledge. Show the decision that abolished the Directorate for Reconstruction and Development Rehabilitation of facilities and houses destroyed in the earthquake in 1998. Don't worry about the field and don't worry about the size of the SPS rating. These results are visible and very recognizable. Of course we're in the field.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63936	It is obvious that the MPs will check all the allegations they have made themselves. This ended the earthquake conversation in Kolubar County in 1998. I'll give you my word, Mr. Popovic, if you're answering again after the amendment, but please, no direct address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63937	When I go to my Colubary County to municipalities affected by the 1998 and 1999 earthquake, many ask me – do you pass laws in the Assembly that will make it impossible for us to get what belongs to us under the law or do you bring laws to help us? They also ask me – do you go to work with your private car or, as some do, by car of the municipality’s congregation where they are in power, and charge the daily bills? And they ask me, how much could the house be restored from these charged daily days?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63938	Please, the amendment says that we should all remind ourselves that in Article 10(1), paragraph 1 is deleted. The word is Mr. Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63939	We're perfectly calm, but I really count on a colleague who has just said, I don't know what he's been saying, I didn't realize the essence of his story, but I'm counting on his support and determination, and I'm counting on, if the draft budget that we're going to have very quickly on the agenda of the current assembly session, not enough resources that will be fully sufficient to complete the reconstruction and recovery of the facilities and houses destroyed in the earthquake, I'm counting on my colleague to support the amendment that I'm about to personally submit, or if I can't stand it, I'm going to support the amendment that you're proposing, which is going to solve the whole problem facing the citizens of the Kolubara County and one city, the city of Valjevo, and five municipalities in the territory of the Colubar County. I'm not a function of the municipal government, so I don't see any reason to explain anything that's just been spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63940	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63941	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 11. In reason, this article is unnecessary because matter is already regulated in the existing law. The amendment aims to improve the text of the bill, but the government replied: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that they amend the proposed member is to extend the mandated headquarters for emergency situations at all levels, which is in line with UN recommendations to build an effective emergency management system." I deliberately paused and said – the UN to build an effective emergency management system. Here I'm asking you, this is one of the very important laws, which could be emergency situations? It's a fire, an earthquake, a flood, a spill of dangerous matter, a radioactivity that can happen, it's all under question or by reason of an emergency situation. I wonder, Mr. Maric, one very important question that will be in the works of this law, as colleagues have spoken, I won't talk much about the situation at KIM, but the emergency situation that is present there is how to solve problems on KIM, which is part of Serbia, how to solve this emergency situation, and that is how citizens can fire, pick up, how can they cut down trees for winter, because it's an emergency situation for them? Last night when I was on the KIM Committee, I must tell you, in 60 years I've never looked so miserable, miserable, or I've never been as upset as a man as a citizen that I don't speak as an MP, speaking of one of the biggest hotspots, a question of people's lives at KIM. There may be different political situations here, that we disagree, but what's important is that those who have come and represent to look at the clock, to burp, because they've probably had a wonderful and beautiful meal before, or they're just looking at how long it takes to leave that board so they can probably move on. Do you represent this? This is a very important issue, the most important issue today in Serbia is what colleagues have been saying all along, not to repeat, that protection means. You had one these days where 145 families caught fire. It's a dramatic condition. At a time when the economy is, I come from Šapac as an MP, from the Mačvanski County, where they worked business facilities and business entities, businesses and where this fire department or, to call it, the Emergency Unit played the most important role, at least as far as the chemical industry of viscosy or the chemical industry "Zorca" from Capca. You don't know, but there's been a lot going on here, even at the time of the bombing, that unit passed a major maturity test, because there's been no major chemical spilling disaster in the Sava and the atmosphere. Therefore, it is also a great challenge or a great task for you. I'm sorry that you got together today, maybe you needed certain ministers to come here, sit down and listen, along with you, because you're certainly getting a warrant to execute, what needs to be done on the ground. It's a very important and important fact, but surely, you've heard from your colleagues what today's precondition for emergency situations, the protection of that workshop that's in the clear sky, and that's agriculture. I have to tell you that this question, the other day I was at the World Science Forum in Budapest where this question was found, and that's exactly what scientists from the South American countries, Argentina and Brazil asked. And that's a very important and present question that requires of you today how to preserve that workshop, that production that is the straw of our rescue of this country and these citizens who have become poor. Let's not look outside at what people look like, we have to make food, because no one in Serbia can be hungry today. You know where Communism is present today, it's present where businessmen and tycoons are, they have everything, but I'm asking you, is it a simple paradise, whether a peasant who suffers, who burns and where the worse, as he says, God destroys everything? That's where we have to protect. You see how many in Serbia today have become businessmen and those businessmen who once led the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zivkovic, who made the vineyard. If, thank God he made it on Frusch Mountain. And he needs to make it to see what it's like to produce wine, what it's like to produce grapes, but it needs that protection to be. Not only do you tell the peasant, but you make sure, so the state will provide you with all this. Where does he get the money so he can secure himself and his products? As for radioactivity and radioactive waste, you see, now a new hangar has been built in Vinci. Where exactly did they find it to build it right here in Vinci, right where all that radioactive waste should be received regionally? You know what used to happen to that radioactive waste in the barrels that was in the old hangars? He's been radiating radioactivity for years. We killed ourselves. Where are our specialized units now? There's so much science in this Vinci that he could see and notice what was going on, and we forgot everything. Most importantly, we forgot about the poor uranium these today's friends bombed us and whether it's for emergency situations now or if I should ask a question, do you know how much land has been contaminated during the bombing today in Serbia? We became the leader of a cancer country here in the Balkans today. It says how sick a nation we are today, or how much we need to believe today or stop or forgive them for what they've been going through, surely to wipe us out, and surely they'll kill us generationally for a few knees. We say that as much as and in what way this institution of yours is very important, and I'm telling you, you're significantly carrying out that institution in which they probably don't let you carry it out until the end. You need shots. Serbia no longer has personnel, there's nothing. Those who are capable, they have gone into the white world. Those who are politicised and who are taken from the political government system, they are not able to do these factors and these tasks properly. So I'm telling you, you're on a big test, on a big mission. You understand, with that I will round up, the Sword is rich, it can feed a lot. I will not speak, as Japan has said, give us the Duke and the Sword, and we will produce so much food. Unfortunately, so much food is produced today that Serbia is hungry because many do not. So, as rice production in China has been shared to everyone as much as it has to be shared with everyone here, no one can be without bread in this country. What this Serbia is producing, that's what's significant and that's what's up to you. So you have to help with the floods, the fires, all those emergency situations. You know very well how the Flood happened last year. Not much local self-government could do to regenerate it, it's all people at their expense. Because when you lose the harvest, when it's all gone down, the man says again -- I'll easily do it again, sowing or sowing another culture, but when the objects collapse, there's a need for the state to sanction and help. In the end, I'm telling you, this law requires you to improve the situation together with the other ministries. Surely now that the budget comes, we will ask as MPs of the SRS that in this item, regarding you, that the greater the dinar and money are found to be able to help. Because you know how, when the firemen sleep and when they lie down, they complete their mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63942	Eleven minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Maric, there is an impression based on your outings on the ground that you are acting on your own. In this regard, I have one concrete proposal - let's first address an emergency situation that lasts the longest, which is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. How? Well, first of all, that all behave in accordance with the preamble of the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitution and the positive laws. If we do this, exhaust all the measures and possibilities from these positive regulations, I assume the emergency situation in Kosovo and Metohija will be reduced. Another proposal, one suggestion, is that it is high time for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija to be found in this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63944	People's MP, I remind you that you are required, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to speak about the agenda and to ask you to compare the tone of your discussions with the seriousness of the subject which, outside of the agenda, you mention in the search of details. In the draft Emergency Law, it clearly states what an emergency is and I ask that you respectfully address other participants in the session and respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which oblige you to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63945	With respect to the draft amending and supplementing law on emergency situations, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. A proposal for this law, where I propose to be a Article 36, which is based on Article 36. The law to wipe out. What is foreseen by Article 12 of this bill? It provides for certain obligations of district emergency headquarters to, among other things, inform the Republic of the Emergency Staff in writing. We believe that this has already been said in several places and that there is no need, and therefore it would be whole to accept this amendment, or to delete Article 12. Mr. Maric, what should we do to have as few emergency situations as possible? It is necessary to act preventively. If a preventive action is made to remove the consequences is much cheaper. Again, I have one concrete proposal, the citizens of Krupnja besides others and a number of regional roads have plenty and lots of local roads, but the two are regional ones that connect the town with Loznica, Sapco, making communication with Ljubija and so on. Lately, and not only during this year, but for many years, seclusion sites have appeared. Since May, they have continued to warn and inform and correspondence with the JP "The Paths of Serbia" with the Ministry of Infrastructure but all remain silent and no one gives them a single answer to their attempts and their demands. This is not just about the ability to communicate with other cities from the work I mentioned but also about the need and danger of endangering life. This road that is seriously threatened, where the rinks have appeared, appears constantly, does not even stand any free lanes to pass but is possible in these deluges. It's now entering the winter period when the slopes will be reinforced. It's possible that at the moment of the break-up, a bus that drives children to school, workers to work or to work. That is why you must convey this cry to the citizens of Krupanj, that the Ministry of Infrastructure, that the JP "Serbian Ways", report for requests and for the writing of the Assembly of the Municipality of Krupanj, in order to eliminate the consequences that may arise. If you don't want it because of these people, remember Cera, Tekeriša, Ravna up is not far away either, the Cat Stone and these are some historical facts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia undertake to respond on these issues in good time and on these requirements. How do you think these amendments and additions that you saw and the analysis said that there was a need for amendments and additions to this law, and we pointed out this when this law was passed in 2009, and its fact, or application, was delayed for six months until the sublegal acts were passed. You saw, you were also in Ljubovija when the floods were in early December 2010, that the municipal headquarters for emergency situations was not well managed. Not that they didn't want to, but it just wasn't training, it wasn't good preparation. Your firemen at that time and other persons who are tasked with intervention in emergency situations have done their job when the situation has already taken place, that is, when the consequences have occurred as it was possible, but a certain number of your members of that service have been trained, not dressed, but dressed in a uniform parade that will be lined up when the President of the Republic arrives, so soon from the point of entry into Ljubovije he moved to the center where he appeared. We do not need it in such situations, we must use every man and every equipment and every means effectively to remove these consequences in the best and fastest possible way. You say yourself, here changes and additions of this law require special funds. So this law, this pepper does not require special funds, but in order for you to be effective so that you can react in good time and very often declare yourself missing the number of firefighters, so that this law is respected in order not to be, as it is said very often, a dead letter on paper needs to be realized by those objectives that this law assumes. So, certain resources are needed, certain funds are also needed for preventive investment, and therefore we must not remain silent before these demands that we make. A colleague here said he would propose an amendment that would speedily remove the effects of the 1998 earthquake from the Kolubara County and urge the SRS to vote for such an amendment. We don't need any individual's invitation, anything in the interest and what's good for the citizens of Serbia, we do it daily and with great pleasure. What about coalition partners, why are they in the debate on the budget for a specific year, if it already does for many years consecutively, not agree? Why does he not have full support from his coalition partners for the adoption of such a law? Mr. Maric, I think you're a completely professional person. The fact that there is no minister, it has become the government's manners, it has become the manner in which the chairman-in-Office of the Assembly, which is located at the moment when the assembly's session is being held, that more representatives of the government, in the image of the minister, do not have to sit there. I know that you and your associates who are there are very happy to accept some amendments, but according to the Rules of Procedure, you do not have such opportunities. This is a question, Mr. Chairman, for you as well. We understand what your colleague, Gordana Komic, says very often – they have the right of ministers to come out at a given time. What about ministers who don't show up at all? This does not only apply to Minister Dacic specifically. A very common phenomenon, including the practice in the National Assembly, is that here with the MPs there are properly staying officials from the government who cannot respond at the given time, but surely they have been doing the proposals of these laws to a greater extent. Mr. Maric, if you cannot accept any of these amendments now, changes and additions to this law when they are, if you are still in that place, pay attention to what the MPs of the SRS tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63946	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we remain with the amendments that we tabled with the proposal on Article 13, to delete it, because Article 37 of the current law accurately prescribed the jurisdiction of the circuit headquarters for emergency situations in paragraphs 1 point 2), 3) and 4 and the commitments of the District Staff to the Republic Emergency Staff fully regulated the law and obligations and local self-government, so the proposed Article 13 is superfluous. Otherwise, many terms and definitions are repeated in the Law. For example, this defines a number of provisions that are repeated from members to members – co-ordinates, organises, plans, preparations, executions, orders, discusses, reports, monitors, assumes and does not list these lists. Thus, Article 14 introduces new 19 provisions and in the application of the applicable law what happens within a year, whether the same people wrote this code a year ago and today propose it. There's hardly anyone here who can manage these useless innovations without greater success. The Emergency Law must provide people and resources, a technique that will affect these situations. It's fires, floods, earthquakes, storm winds. It's necessary to hire, so you said, about 4,000 people who could put out fires, but you don't do anything. You destroyed everything, the army, the police. Why are you acting like this? You've provided money for various organizations, NGOs, and who else knows what you're funding. In particular, it's an emergency right now. Pre-election activities have begun. You've hired 1,800 agronomists, 400 forest engineers and who knows who else you'll hire in the service of pre-election activity. We've been commenting on the value of these jobs, and it's all in line with the emergency situation. So, you first declared emergency situations, and that's the election, and then you hired these people that will cost about 30m euros. Those 30m euros were supposed to be invested in this emergency fund where you could act at any time to put out those fires. You didn't prepare yourself any personnel or technical on those fires so you could put them out. About the fire, it's a special story. Otherwise, I'm a walker by walk-in, so I know what that means and how it all happens. I'll tell you a few sentences about these dear friends of ours who are rocket launchers. You didn't do anything about it. My colleagues have commented on the bases in Serbia. Turn them off. We understand why you're shutting them down. Lobbists who want to destroy a small and medium-sized agricultural producer, or fruit growers, they're affecting you. They're proposing laws. Why? They have protective construction networks, and they don't need these systems that we're commenting on today, which we comment on every day. As SRS, we believe that this member who I have commented here should be deleted and that you are working in accordance with norms and principles not of the EU but of our needs regarding Serbia, our localities and our areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63948	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63949	Mr. President, gentlemen of the MUP, I am staying with the proposed amendment, although I said something about it earlier, when I spoke in the first part, and it refers to these strong provisions that have been extended from the seven existing laws to 19. What I would have had to resent to this government and to you, do not fall under the influence of this global warming and globalisation and the numerous demands of the Western countries of the EU, NATO Pact, America, against whom the SRS is. It's known and it's for legitimate reasons. My colleagues talked a lot about these basic disasters, can you answer my question, I mentioned, did the anti-urban protection of the Pancheva municipality primarily at 12:00 p.m. on 20 July 2011 cover the Katastrian municipalities: Ivanovo, Banatski Brestovac, Omoljica, Starcheva, Vojlovica Pančevo and Stari Tamiš from 25 thousand hectares of surface, where, first of all, vegetables, fruits were destroyed? The total amount of damage is worth three billion 150 million 486 thousand dinars, as determined by the committee in charge. Please, can you answer me if the anti-urban protection was effective on July 20th, 2011 or not? The damage is huge. I note that farmers have suffered huge damage in that municipality. One hundred percent of vegetables, vineyarding, and other cultures have been destroyed. I repeat, the damage is three billion 150 million 486 thousand dinars. Is there a chance that the government is giving help, since no one has answered to help the farmers of Banatski Brestovac, Ivanova, Omoljica, Starcheva, Dolov and Stari Tamis in the territory of the Pancheva municipality? Please don't defend yourself with silence, gentlemen. You know how, when you bring the defendant into the SUP or the investigating judge's room, he has the right to defend himself by keeping his mouth shut about the CAP, but I expect you to give us the answers we've asked today as responsible people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63950	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to Article 16 of the amendment by MP Mirko Munjic and the group to the 21st National MP of the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Munjic, so Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63951	Article 16 regulates the question of who draws up the plan of protection and rescue, as well as the issue of the licence. Ladies and gentlemen, in the entire 19 lines, you have in this norm devoted yourself to this matter, and here you are in fact describing which professional arrangement should have a person to obtain a license, then, that the funds from passing a professional examination are the funds that go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so you are talking about the records when passing professional exams and obtaining a license, then, about keeping the official secret in these transactions, and about how plans are being made and the assessment of the threat. And here it's obvious that the norm is too extensive, that there's a lot of things written in this norm that should be exclusive to the jurisdiction of the sublegal act, that is, the sole subject matter of the sublegal act. The legal norm should be clear, concise, precise and not contain any unnecessary elements, that it does not contain in itself what should be the subject of one sublegal act. Everything that needs to be the subject of this act should not be in one legal norm. In an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, you say that it is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution gives the possibility to draw up plans for protection and rescue and threat assessment can only be carried out by professional persons with a licence, in order to prevent the possibility of malfeasance, abuse, etc. Gentlemen of the government, by seeking to delete this member, I did not deny the need to make plans and to assess the threat, as well as everything else you wrote in this norm, to be as you predicted, but it is normal and clear that the plans are made by experts, it is clear that even the assessment of the threat is done by experts, but there is no need to burden the legal norm with that. That's what it's supposed to say in the sublegal act and make everything concrete in that sublegal act. But it's not the first time you've done the opposite of both principles and rules and the law and the Constitution. In particular, you also negotiate with the Shiptars down at KIM against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's one case. You don't schedule the KIM Assembly here, and believe that these boundaries and freedoms in KIM have been expensively paid for by our ancestors, and you sell it as Alajbe's straw. Then someone will answer for it. Set up that session of the KIM Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63952	Mr. Rogovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63953	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Amendments and additions to Article 49 The Emergency Act, we believe that no amendment intervention, or the consent of this Article 49, was necessary by the Government, because, in principle, and in the debate in particular, we pointed out in addition to the arguments made by the previous speaker that these elements should really regulate some sublaws and regulations, not law, in this case, amendments and additions to the law. This practice, which has become the legislator of the law, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in making all legal solutions and obtaining mandatory licences and certificates, is truly amazing. That's what you're collecting the process for. I'm sorry, Mr. Maric, there's no minister, I can't communicate with you, but I have to ask you, do you have a license, and you're in charge of this serious sector? It's hard to answer. I'm sorry, since it's a personal question, but does this mean that people who are educated, trained to do certain jobs, do they through police academy, do they through military academy, whether the Faculty of Defence and Security, say, would that be the same thing in terms of some military law when a man who graduated from the headquarters academy, who finished the general staff academy, should have some certificate and a license to run and run a tactical task force of a brigade type? Of course he doesn't need it, that through the process of education, training, training he acquired these preconditions for such a responsible duty, so I think the responsible persons in the sector, the ministry, the lower levels and businesses that are involved in this business, and even so far, they haven't had licenses and automatically this law makes all the people and all the companies that have dealt with this business have to get their licenses. It is likely to be an additional cost to the citizens' budget, as it is not possible to separate funds from the framework of regular activities and its regular incomes to obtain so-called. certificates and licences, and I don't think that, at least in this law, given its significance, you had an obligation to impose mandatory licences, or obtaining certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63954	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, with a proposal to delete Article 17. Article 50, which is intended to be deleted by these amendments and additions, means this Article 17, and the SRS considers that it should remain as it is, provides for regulation of the action due to the occurrence of the damage, aid and compensation due to the elemental disasters. We don't see what's wrong with the local self-government unit finding the damage caused by elemental disasters, then the Republic taking part in helping local self-government units to remove major damages, so now I don't list everything that was in this article 50, and you want to delete that article. Speaking of local self-government and damage, do you know the ministry gentlemen, that the total damage to some companies and legal entities in Paracino and Cipria has not yet been resolved since the explosion of the ammunition warehouse, which took place five years ago, on 19 October 2006? I know that even local self-government in Paracino was trying to compensate the citizens for the damage, since the government had forgotten after a few weeks about the commitments it had made publicly through officials' statements, so it paid the compensation on the spoon with great delay. The Government's reasoning for the refusal of this amendment states that the amendment is not accepted because that area is already regulated by the Law on the Use of Rehabilitation and Protection from Essential Accidents, I quote the number of Official Messenger 50/92. The question arises – why didn't you keep that in mind when you passed the original law, so that there would be no such article 50 in the law? This is probably being extorted by situations on the ground that seem to have begun to take on conditions that the ministries and the government cannot follow. Also, I would like to ask the Ministry's representatives -- how can the Ministry regulate damage, aid and compensation due to elemental disasters through units of local self-government, for example, in KIM, although NATO pact soldiers hardly have worse elemental disasters? What if, say, a flood or a big forest fire or, God forbid an earthquake in Zvecan, Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, to help Serbs? Who would compensate them for the damage, who would determine the damage? Representatives of the MUP should try a little bit harder to resolve the huge damage, caused by KFOR on KIM, above all by Serbs and Serbian assets. German and Austrian soldiers, bearers of the EU's cultural and civilized heritage, began yesterday with a general rehearsal of Serb shooting, as their grandfathers did in 1941, and Serbia is silent and the National Assembly is silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63956	The 18th amendment was submitted by groups of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63957	We have tried the proposed amendment to take advantage of the opportunity, given that you have performed amendments to the member mentioned. In Article 61(2), you replace the word "competent Service" with "public shelter company" and add a new position 4. On the basis of the basic draft law, not on amendments and additions, we have tried to seriousise this same member, given that this was not done in the adoption of the basic law and that the views of the 2nd and 3rd additional complications for extension, i.e. for the procedures for issuing building permits and other documents necessary for construction, by introducing obligations in this member company for shelters and its procedure, i.e. the participation of the company in the process of issuing building permits. We think that all the other competent authorities dealing with this problem are quite professional and have the capacity and the obligation to deal with this problem. So, another paperwork in Serbia, which is 97th in Europe, on the issue of building permits and the complications of the process, and 60th in some places in the world on investment. We think this law has no reason to further complicate a 257-day process in Serbia. So it takes 275 days to get any building permit. By introducing a public shelter company into this procedure, it is likely that the deadline will be moved for about 300 days and will therefore be on the last scale and on the subject of some African countries, investments, building permits and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63958	The 19th amendment was submitted by groups of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63959	Article 64, last bet, item 7. - shelters under Article 5 5 may be leased under peacetime conditions. I've already pointed that out in the previous part of the debate. I hope you've wondered as people who enforce the laws and face problems when implementing the law on the ground, to adopt the amendment. It is impossible to issue a shelter in peacetime conditions and to use it for emergency situations. No one's announcing an emergency. It happens at once, as well as the war situations. How, from this peacetime condition, where certain shelters, warehouses, for example, are used for the warehouses of some companies, will they go into use for the same emergency shelters? It takes an incredible period in all of this. We have experience, unfortunately, since 1999, when there were some war conditions and situations, that we didn't have a stock reserve, that we didn't know where our shelters or warehouses were, and that we had a hard time using them, especially if they were usurped or given to someone for use. That is why operational matters and your services made it necessary to accept this amendment, because this process will in itself lead to the situation that the same shelters cannot be used at the moment of declaring the emergency situation, and God forbid, both in war situations and in war conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63960	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63961	Today should mark the second anniversary of the adoption of this law. On this very day of 2009, this law was passed. It has been delayed for six months and after a year and a half you, who are applying this law, have a series of objections to this law and have submitted a proposal for amendments and additions to the law. We in the SRS have made our remarks to this law and when the law is passed and we bring them out and now that you want to change and supplement it. In that sense, the amendment to Article 21, which is actually an original member, is 113. In his second position, article 113 speaks of complete and material equipment. You wrote in article 113 earlier that it is now a trustee of protection, in civil protection units and in companies and other legal entities, employees of these companies and legal entities are deployed. We said it was unacceptable for us to be a trustee instead of a manager, but that there should be some kind of manager. Now watch your own explanation. Again, I assume that you sitting here are doing this, because surely the minister is not involved in this, but evidence that you do not read what you offer to the MPs. This is really irresponsible, first of all, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is not her first time. The government has shown its irresponsibility towards parliament countless times and the fact that there is no minister today, and the fact that on the KiM Committee there was none of the government's representatives. There was neither Cvetkovic nor Borko Stefanovic nor Bogdanovic. This is the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards parliament, i.e. towards the state of Serbia. The government's attitude towards parliament also shows that it has been failing to report to the SRS for three months. The problem is that the congregation's majority is suffering it, which the congregation won't tell the government – think about it, start doing your job. This parliament has turned into something, and it's really hard to find what you've turned parliament into. It's just the lines that you're doing, you're proposing something, you're changing after half a year or a year, and then you're bragging about how you've passed this much or so many laws. It is important that you follow your European friends who are destroying us, both the state and the people, and shoot the Serbs at KIM. You do not allow this to be discussed in parliament. You don't let a word of that be said. You are warning – you are out of the agenda theme, you are out of time, etc. You killed democracy in Serbia. You killed democracy in Serbia. I am now going back to the reasons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for why our amendment has not been accepted. You say – because the trustee represents a more adequate name than the manager. I'm sorry, saying something more appropriate is not an argument. We're not fools, and we want you to treat the MPs seriously. We're doing our job very seriously here. We represent the state interests and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the government is bothered by the ruling majority, that we insist for days on finally having an open conversation about KIM, and to see, to stop Boris Tadic's treason policy, is something we cannot, nor do we want to influence. We express the views of the SRS, which are absolutely identical to the views of most Serbian citizens, and in any case, of all Serbs with KIM. You are further saying – you believe that by introducing the name "leader", it would lead to different understandings of the institution of civil protection creditors and their tasks. Whoever wrote this, explain what he wanted, and let's say, "Good job." The highlight, I'm sorry, is that you say that, in addition to that, the institution of civil protection trustees is defined in Articles 96 and 97. The law. The first question is, if that's the case, how could you happen to have a manager instead of a trustee? What were you looking at two years ago when you passed the law? Second thing, you're changing the law. You're proposing amendments to the law, and then why can't we propose amendments to the law? You suggested in this sense of yours to me in this of ours. What's your argument about what you wrote here? There's no argument Mr. SRS never asks anyone not to respect the law. If that's what it says in this article of the law, we say that it should change, too. We are in favour of passing laws, trying to convince our amendments to the ruling majority to pass laws that will be as applicable as much as possible, unlike most of the laws that this Parliament has passed over the past 11 years, and we are trying to draw attention to our amendments that parliament is obliged to bring laws in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not in the interests of a few of the so-called officials. The EU. That's why we want to distract you... (President: Time, Mrs. Radeta. Did we waste our time? All right, then just one sentence. Excuse me. We do not insist that the law be broken, on the contrary, we insist that the law be respected, we insist that the Constitution be respected by Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and Boris Tadic and we finally discuss KIM here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63962	This now has all the time, both authorized and for the parliamentary group, the SRS has been used. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63963	Gentlemen of the Ministry, you propose to replace the term "manager" in Article 23 on the proposal, and add in Article 139 of the current law to the term "manager" to "trustors". You know how it is, this was fashion when someone proposed this law. That fashion came from the west. Get away from this mode. Please don't stick to new things from the west. This service of yours, or our Home Office, has been working for decades with success, and we don't need Americans, Germans, English, to write us laws because it's usually right in England and America, especially in America, sheriff's law. There's something else here. There are other rules here, other behaviors, other customs. There you have, first of all, people who do everything and everything and here are people, in this Serbia, who have their own rules and their own culture. Don't take over the West Sheriff's culture. We don't need this because Serbia is a country with developed democracy, with an existence close to a thousand years as a modern state, and we need now a cowboy America who doesn't have as much age as there is a monastery in Serbia that they write laws, and on the other hand, banish agents and intelligence officers and liaison officers from the Ministry of Interior and Defence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63964	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted an amendment submitted to Article 24 by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. There's no answer for word. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63965	Article 24 refers to Article 114 of the basic law which actually refers to criminal provisions, i.e. infringements against legal persons. First of all, I have to say that for the SRS, it is an offensive argument of the government that our amendment is not accepted because an amendment there has been accepted by some group of citizens sitting here. You have suggested in your text that one of the violations be punished by fines of 100,000 to millions of dinars of economic or other legal person who, among other things, does not pay a fee of 2% of the total value of the construction part of the facility. We thought this was too high and it took this height to decrease to 1%. It's absolutely good that you had this criminal provision proposed, but we don't understand why you accepted the amendment to delete this sentence. It seems you've followed these forwards who, we already see in the media today, they're going to solve any violations, criminal acts, etc. Their presidency member Vladimir Cvian is a lawyer, written by the media, Joce Amsterdam. He announces that when the new government comes, then Joca Amsterdam is ready to build a new bridge where the new government will tell him. So they're already making deals with criminals and then they're boasting how much money they're gonna bring to Serbia. It is not possible that you in power have accepted this amendment because it suits you with the way you communicate with an advanced party and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63966	Thank you. Time's up. The government and the Defence and Security Committee accepted an amendment submitted to article 25 by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63967	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, you can see that out of one legal failure the government is benefiting. It's obviously about ignorance, and I'm going to try to explain in these two minutes why it's ignorance. Ignorance is because you are in the contract law category putting responsibility for the violations. For the sake of the public, I must say that the attempt by the promoter of these amendments and the addition of the emergency law was to install it in Article 45, or 25, in the bill of law, to impose a violation and that violation of the natural person, or investor, unless he paid a fee of 2% of the total value of the construction part of the facility. According to the law, the investor has the opportunity to build a public shelter or pay 2% of the total value. It's a contractual obligation. So unless the public shelter works, it pays 2% of the building value, a contract is made and acts in accordance with the provisions of this contract. There's no violation. Noticed all of this, you accepted, looking for a way out in all of this, because it's obvious that you were wrong, and our intensity wasn't in it. Our intensity was to help the investor, help citizens who invest their own resources and do certain construction work. Why is that necessary? Because of the location and position of the construction industry and the construction in general. In 2008, the country built 20,000 apartments, down to 4,000 in 2009, only 2,000. It's probably less than 2,000 this year. There's our construction industry. You destroyed the construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63968	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Time's up. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This would end the morning part of the session, so I'm about to set a break for an hour. We will continue at 1400 hours, when there will be a minister who has apologized in the meantime. Today we will work until the end of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Thank you for your cooperation in the afternoon. The minister arrives at 1400 hours. Suggestions have been accepted and I apologize on his behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, by searching the details of the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borislav Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, then, joint MPs Nenad Čanak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olen Papuga and Radovan Radovan Radovanovic, National MP Milorad Krstim, Vjera Radeta, Momir Marković, Vitomir Plužarević, Natač, Natažan Kožanović, Nejaljan Šilić, Šiljanović, Šiljanović, Šilić, Štovarić, Mirdavić, Mirdavić, Mirdić, Mirić, Mirdić, Mirdić and Radarić. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the Defence and Security Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment added to article 1 by a new member of the 1st party was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63970	We have submitted to this article the amendment, as read, where a new member is added, which reads: "Article 4. The law on police, in point 2(2), is deleted." In principle, we have already delivered our opinion that this bill appears to be written, does not appear to be, but seems rather hasty and due to the frequent strikes of several police unions, sometimes all together, sometimes individually, which should solve some of the problems they pointed to. Realistically, many of these problems do exist, but for us in the Progressive Group, Serbia seems to be going so far as to break some other laws that regulate that matter, above all on working relationships, internships, benefits from work experience, etc. Also, in the end, it will unnecessarily burden itself on the MIP budget, so instead of some other jobs and obligations needed by the MUP, above all in restoring technology, as well as on training police officers themselves to do, as far as their equipment is concerned, etc. If you adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, it will come to the conclusion that money will again be spent irrationally, and on the other hand, on certain things that really do not comply with many other laws. For example, we have suggested that this member be changed. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment, as police officers are also required to be seen as employees of the Ministry of Fire Protection and various administrative affairs, such as keeping records, issuing permits and other documents, and other employees that the minister can authorise to perform police work. Jobs listed at this point differ significantly from police jobs and there is no reason, or it is not acceptable for them to be evened out. Article 3 provides that all of these jobs that pose a major threat to life and health, as well as that responsibility and weight of nature and specific working conditions have an important impact on the reduction of working ability. Under the Retirement-Invaluable Insurance Act, this benefited internship is recognised, it exists in the law and is clearly defined. This is now a different definition than what it says in that law, which is that these are particularly difficult, dangerous and harmful health affairs. It is hardly possible to accept that attitude, i.e. the state you offer with this proposal to amend and supplement the law, that issuing documents or keeping records is such a job. That would mean that something like that would have to be done by law enforcement officers in the post office or officers in the EPS. I can even think that, say, a more dangerous job in the mailroom or in the EPS than in the police. The police are protected. They're in the police building. We all know that here these work with a lot of money, there could be armed robbery, there could be anything, and then they don't have this right that you're offering. You should have made that clear. I know it's hard to talk to the unions now, because these counter-workers are members of the police union, too, but it has to be separated, because in this way, if they have an unfettered job experience, it's definitely going to cost the state budget and the whole pension story. That's why we think it's acceptable even for unions to change this and know exactly. Officers, of course, but officials and others, as well as firefighters, of course, it's not a dispute, because that right belongs to them under this pension-inhabitation law, even though they can't get the status of police officers because they don't do police work. Fire departments don't do police work, and that's why it's wrong for this law to give them the status of a police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63971	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63972	As far as this amendment is concerned, which we have submitted to Article 1 point 16), we have suggested that this be handled by a special act by the Minister of Police. The proposed formulation does not make it clear what kind of accommodation they are in, what kind of diet they're eating, who they're all about. Such a provision could be interpreted as the ministry's duty to provide accommodation and nutrition for all MIP employees, as well as those provided in this respect. Why do certain fences need to be set up? The government's argument is absolutely unacceptable. It says here are the jobs that are part of the work of internal affairs, but there's no difference. So, everyone. And even those who have the same issue solved, so that's what needs to be solved now, and they need to be dealt with once more. That's why we don't think that a provision is consistent with this amendment, no matter what you gentlemen will not be here to participate in the acceptance of these amendments at all, but I have worked in this service, I know the difference, what is the difference between those who are authorized and who are not authorized, who need to regulate certain things, which should not, which should be provided for by nutrition, which are not necessary and when. So, gentlemen, there's a better formula for this amendment. That is why I think there is room for you to accept this amendment, because this will put in place a balance between workers working in the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63973	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63974	As for the amendment to Article 2 at point 8 above, the words "borders" are added: "Republic of Serbia". Gentlemen, today, the president of the Republic issued a warrant for Serbs from the barricades to withdraw so that the KFOR mafia could penetrate Belgrade. The SRS does not accept such an attitude. It's a state border, not between KiM and Serbia, because KIM is just a province. The state border is the border between Serbia and Albania. That's what the SRS, first of all, wants to point out. It is a border provided for by international law and normised. The question arises why did the Serbian government not respect Resolution 1244? The military and police were supposed to go to the border between Albania... (President: People's Parliament, please, when I remind you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you may hear why I do so. So you're under the obligation to talk about the agenda point in a specific search. ) I am talking about the border, and it is about Article 2 of point 8 where after I said "borders" I suggested that it be "the borders of the Republic of Serbia". I don't understand why the promoter has a dilemma about this amendment. So the question is, whose limit is that? The state border between Serbia and Albania and nothing more. That is why I find it necessary to adopt this amendment. Madam Chairman, there is no minister here, because it should still be the minister of these matters to answer to the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63975	People's MPs would have to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the way they work at the sitting, so I ask you to agree your presentations and explanations of the amendments you have submitted with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe how and what can be said when it comes to a search in principle or a search in particulars, as well as what and in what way is represented by the National Assembly Minister, who has the right to be part of the sitting and other affairs, as well as any other participant in the session. I also ask MP Sreto Peric not to throw it away. It is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The rules apply to all of us. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63976	When it comes to Article 3(3) and (4), paragraphs 3 and 4 are deleted, and we propose to replace the Government at the Minister's proposal in the 5th position of the 3rd word: "Minister" with the words "Government on a proposal from the Minister". It is very important issues, because it is regulated by Article 3(3) and 4 in terms of police use and international co-operation. The international co-operation between the police, according to the SRS, is absolutely unnecessary. This co-operation, above all, means that we are fighting terrorism, crime, border security violations, the establishment of common working bodies. One question arises – that we do not pass as with Perisic. It's the best in the Lipovac forest. You see, this is where the liaison officer is scheduled. We don't think we need that liaison officer at all. We don't need any security liaison officers. The question arises who will prepare and train our members to go, say, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Mongolia, etc.? For what purposes and what goals? Do they protect them there...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63977	Thank you, two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63978	Article 140. The Serbian Constitution says the Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now someone will say about our amendment, which we have submitted, that it also writes, of course, in the Constitution, not, but we have asked that in this article, "the government, on a proposal from the Minister" be replaced by the words "The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government". That's absolutely logical. I'm surprised that experienced people, and a lot of experienced parliamentarians are sitting on the Defence and Security Committee, have not accepted this amendment, if it isn't already the Government. If the National Assembly is already deciding for the military, it is just amazing that it also decides for the police. I'll tell you from many examples. For example, we here have generally taken a position to accept that we participate in those missions organised by the UN, not the NATO Pact. For example, the "Isaf Mission" in Afghanistan is a UN mission, but it runs and operates the NATO Pact. There is also a police mission that is within the scope of the Isaph mission. So the cops go there as much as the soldiers do. It may happen that the Assembly is against our soldiers participating in Afghanistan, that is correct, but then the minister and government decide to participate in the mission because the National Assembly does not decide, because it was a mistake in writing the Constitution and someone did not put it in place. We don't have to take Afghanistan as an example, we have other examples, you have many missions in many countries where the UN missions are really without the participation of the NATO Pact, there are Member States, etc., but it doesn't run the NATO Pact, where we have both a military and a police mission. Imagine the situation to say in Congo or Sierra Leone is a mission, parliament is discussing that the military is participating, and the government is making a decision that the police are participating or not participating in the same mission. That is why this amendment should have been accepted, regardless of what the Constitution says, which was a mistake when we passed the Constitution and did not write that police forces should be decided by the Assembly on participation in peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63979	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63980	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as in this amendment, since the aim is to improve the text of the law, but to use the presence, I see that it speaks on the mobile, Mr. Babojevic, and to tell him that you can pass the law every five minutes when you have, say, police administrations in Subotica and chief of police administration, Mr. Mucalj, with your inspectors who need four years of time to resist by and internal police control, headed by Mr. Radovic, with Mr. Premovic, the minister's advisor, so that they do nothing about the case, and it is about "Herbacop", a company that is damaged on the basis of a fake ID card, eight and a half of a million in 2007. Here, for the fourth year, nothing's been done yet. In addition to all the efforts made by these mentioned people, so Mr. Premovic, a police minister's adviser, Mr. Radovic, chief of police administration, does nothing on the case. So, the Velenac company Herbakop, owner of Serbia's Đuric, is damaged, worth eight and a half million, then 100,000 euros. (President: National MP, in what connection is it with your amendment, which reads to be in attitude 4 after the word "act" add the words "Government on a proposal"? I really can't understand that you won't understand that I'm talking. Chiefs of Administration, there is one point here in view of point 3, after the words "Governmental Chiefs" are added to the words "and commanders of special units of police". I can't finish. I've started with the chiefs of staff, and I want to finish what the people need to know. (President: National MP, what you will inform the public and we must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, therefore, of the amendment. ) Is this where the head of directors of the administration writes, in Article 3 paragraph 1? (President: People's Parliament, your amendment reads - in Article 5, in paragraph 3, "handlings and", are deleted. The words "Government on Proposal" are added in attitude 4. So please, you have another 30 seconds to explain the amendment. I think I'm clear and loud, pointing to the failures that will happen if our amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63981	I'm warning you now, about the amendment. I listen very carefully to every MP and react only when the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges me to act. If you think you can connect, I remind you to link the example that you wanted to inform the public with your amendment. Since you cannot, then I warn you that in the next case, you are forcing me and obliging me to give you the warning measures because of the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the determination to show that you can violate without punishment what other MPs must respect or break with punishment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the Government, the respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of the discussion in particular on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, I am pleased that out of the 10 amendments of the NS four have been accepted, but we believe that there has been room for another amendment to be accepted, especially for the reasons why we always submit amendments that really need to be corrected by the law and in this situation, in Article 5(4), after saying, "it is being edited by the act of the Minister" the point is deleted and added to the words "which it brings with the consent of the Government". The reason for this amendment is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember certain units that the MUP had previously formed and most often understood it as being some kind of Pretorian Guard. We do not dispute the need for the Ministry of Interior to form special units of police, we believe that the government should give prior consent to an act of the interior minister that is closer to organising and functioning, as well as the status of members of these units. In this way, an excessive concentration of authority would be avoided in the hands of a man. The reason why this amendment of the NS was rejected was linked to a previous member, and this argument was prescribed as was rejected for the previous amendment. It means, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that other provisions of the Police Act already stipulated that Serbian government has given its consent to acts on the internal arrangement of Serbia's MUP." We believe that regardless of this argument that the law, if it is already such a procedure, and we know that certain laws have to pass the government, we believe that it is more comprehensive that such a solution as the NS has given is accepted, that the acts of the Minister who adopts a certain act or, in this case, the bill that defines it must be with the consent of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63983	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment with the correction of 29 November 2011 was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63984	Like our previous colleague, we simply asked for the words "minister act" in this article to be replaced by the words "government regulations". We even believe that this proposal as it stands in amendments to the Law is unconstitutional, absolutely not in accordance with the Constitution and we wrote it in our explanation. It is not acceptable for the organisation and operation of special units of police and the status of its members to be governed by the act of the minister. Why? Because the disputed provision states that these issues are being organised closer by the minister's act. However, the law itself does not contain any provisions on the organisation and operation of special units of police, so that the act of the minister would essentially regulate this issue originally, and this Minister under the Constitution does not have the right to do so, the government of the Republic of Serbia can do so. So, it could just be a government regulation regulated, and certainly not by some atom of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63985	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. I suggest that Article 8 be deleted, because the solution to the basic law is better than proposed. We know that on the basis of Security Council Resolution 1244, the competent state authorities have the right and the obligation to provide a state border between Serbia and Albania with their armed forces. However, from 1999 to today, the Serbian government has neither taken any action nor expressed its readiness to secure our border with Albania in accordance with Resolution 1244. When it comes to securing Serbia's state border with neighbouring countries, I point out that Serbia has no established borders with Albania, Macedonia and Croatia only because of its incompetent and irresponsible government. In international relations, the concept of the border binds to the state and marks a line that divides the territory of one country from the territory of another country. Infringement of the state border is a violation of the sovereignty of the state in question and is prohibited by international law. From the point of view of international law, borders are lines to which the rule of law, or sovereignty of a state, is extended. The crossing across the state border shall be carried out in accordance with the border regime which the State lays down its internal legal regulations. I ask you - who wants to oppose the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the international right to establish a state border between Serbia and the province of KIM? If they think that Borko Stefanovic, Goran Bogdanovic, and similar to them are wrong, they will not succeed. (President: You have two more seconds to explain the amendment and do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. ) I suggest you adopt this amendment, because it improves the text of the law and better regulate border security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63987	Thank you. It was submitted to the 9th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63988	We have here suggested that the words "or endanger" be deleted in this article. Namely, by prescribing that the police can retain or, more clearly, arrest a person who threatens public order and peace, it is practically given the right to the police to make preventive arrests. That's what we talked about in principle. Persons who have not committed any criminal act, because public order and peace need to be violated, should be violated by the law, not put at risk. Then the police could do it on their own free judgment so that those faces could do some work. I was detained preventively, double-digited in the 1990s during the Slobodan Milosevic regime, because I was president of a municipal board of opposition parties in the town of Smederev. I have been constantly asked questions – who is funding you and who is funding the Resistance? What are you going to do if I've never done a violation of the law, but in the opinion of the police, I threatened the order at the time. So now someone can think that public order and peace are being threatened and that he's going to go to a preventive arrest. That is why I think that you have also made a mistake not to accept this amendment, because it is in the spirit of European integration, democracy, the freedoms that we are talking about, the rights of citizens and I think it is a mistake, I hope that by the day of voting the Government of the Republic of Serbia will accept this amendment or at least the parliamentary majority, since people have had a lot of them on that side similar experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63989	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. This amendment was also adopted by the Government and the Committee on Defence and Security, since the Legislative Committee has not spoken. If the MP wants two minutes to explain the amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63990	This amendment concerns Article 10. It's a bill of law, and it's about a member of the 77th basic law. I will remind you that Article 77 regulates the question to which all the data can be provided and the numbered data on criminal offences, the number of data on the reported and the number of data on the damaged persons, and to whom all personal data can be provided and for what purposes, and even the circumstance that personal data can be supplied to certain international organisations in certain situations. Personal data and personal data giving is a very sensitive question. You certainly know how sensitive it is to give personal information to some persons or to some organisations that can use it for certain purposes. Well, we almost had one case when, as it turns out, one minister wouldn't deliver the parent's books to the Shiptarians. But I'd say it's kind of late, or a back-up mind, because we've been always talking about that there's no way I can ever deliver the books to the Shiptars. But it's like giving someone one hand, and then pulling the other hand when they want to take one finger away from you. Unfortunately, you seem to have given one hand, and unfortunately, you will also seem to give the other hand when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. But that second and that right you gave, it's not yours, and I'd say Kosovo and Metohija are already done. You have already sold Kosovo and Metohija, and I remind you it is not your grandmother's.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63991	People's MP, I ask you to talk about the agenda, and I am now warning all other MPs whose policy strategy is in the debate that they are not talking about the agenda, but that they are taking advantage of a topic that deeply concerns everyone in Serbia that the warnings will be made without prior warnings, which is a practice that I have considered polite and acceptable to all of us so far. Because every time I think it's okay, despite the fact that it's not clearly written in the Rules of Procedure, to remind the MP not to talk about the subject of the agenda, to warn him and then to give him a warning. Since your strategy is to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly, to demean the National Assembly and to make clear that you are all speaking beyond the subject of the agenda, then I would inform you that this practice of reminding you that you have left the topic of the agenda will be abandoned and that strictly by the Rules of Procedure we will impose criminal measures on everyone who thinks they may be unpunished and that political freedom is in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act, and it refers to Article 87. The law on police and refers to, or Article 87 regulates the use of means of coercion. So it is said, when the means of coercion are used within the limits of the powers established by law, they exclude responsibility. Although this is not precisely defined, they exclude liability and the means of coercion can be used both depending on now and on the circumstances in which they are used. The authorised official who used them is said to be obliged to provide free legal assistance, so the person who was unbalanced and acted in accordance with the necessary means of coercion, will be given legal and other necessary assistance in the process. This is also regulated in Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3, to provide other necessary assistance. It is not clear to us here, or to no one else what other help is thought of if it is said that legal aid will be provided free of charge. What other help is that? Police officers must, or their responsibilities, be fully, precisely and clearly regulated for one simple reason. These are persons whose performance involves a dangerous activity, which are exposed to constant pressures, which are recently, you have seen as many dead officers as there have been, but it has to be quite clear and precisely regulated which help the ministry. And I'm not going to ask, which is why there is no government representative here who might accept the amendments or say more about the amendments that we have submitted. Of course, what individual officials of the Serbian state are doing and how... . The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63993	I remain with the proposal to delete this article in the proposal because, in the provisions of Article 110 of the current law, it is almost identical to everything prescribed and there is no need to add anything, given that in four positions with seven points, it was excellently prescribed by Article 110 of the proposed law. I'm staying with that proposal. I think it's effective and there's no need to rewrite anything, add, because it doesn't improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63994	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. This amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Defence and Security, and the Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. The People's MP, Balint Pastor, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63995	Madam Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is not usual to speak about the amendment the government has accepted and supported by the National Assembly committee, but given the fact that the Legislative Committee has not yet spoken, which will mean that we will have to vote as the National Assembly in the day of the vote to make a statement on the submission of the amendment by the People's MP Milicevic, I believe that it is all the same to say a few sentences. I would like to support this amendment by my SPS colleagues because this amendment is the fruit of an agreement reached between the SPS and the SVM. It is an amendment to the provisions of the Police Act that says that double citizens cannot work at the Ministry of the Interior. According to this amendment, Mr Milicevic, the provision will be amended and dual citizens will also be allowed to work in the MUP. This, on the one hand, will be amended by another law that has been a discriminatory character so far, and on the other hand, a situation that has not been logical and which has had its lunch with certain solutions from our highest legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We do not consider it logical that, for example, a traffic policeman who, apart from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, has another citizenship of another foreign country cannot work in the police without, say, having no interference that the president of the state, the prime minister, the MP, the chief of staff, who eventually owns another citizen, besides the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, can perform those functions that are far more responsible than the job of a traffic policeman. It simply doesn't make sense if the President of the Republic who, according to the Constitution, and the Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, if the Governor of the National Bank can be a double citizen, and we had a governor for years who was a double citizen, but I have to say that I see nothing controversial or negative about it, if there is no interference that the Chief of General Staff is a double citizen and is performing that function, then I see no reason for the "usual" traffic policeman who has another state being in that position. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 60(3), all jobs are available under the same conditions. We think this solution, which prohibited double citizens from working in the MUP, was contrary to this provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, the current Police Act was passed in 2005 and we have reached an agreement, as I just said, with Minister Dacic, the president of the SPS, that this provision should be amended and I think it will be very good that double citizens are allowed to work in the MUP. We assume that even so far, double citizens in practice were able to work in the MUP. We all know people who are police officers and, in addition to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, own BiH citizenship or the Republic of Croatia, who worked in the Ministry of Interior, but, on the other hand, that was forbidden in relation to the citizenship of some states. This solution primarily prevented members of the national minorities from hiring at the MUP. If it's our common intention, and I'd like to hope it is, that the more members of the national minorities work in the police, the better it is to put these people before the choice of whether they want a job or want citizenship in some other state. The Republic of Serbia prohibits its citizens from having citizenship in any other country. If this amendment is adopted in the voting day, then a huge step will be taken in the interest of the law not being discriminatory and Serbia will be able to boast that it also enables double citizens to work in the MUP. I would like to remind you that there are countries in our environment that, unfortunately, now in the 21st century, their citizens deprive the original citizen because these people are receiving the citizenship of another country. Such practice, unfortunately, has the Republic of Slovakia. There, Slovak citizens who have residence in the territories of the Republic of Slovakia take away the citizenship of the Republic of Slovakia if they accept the citizenship of the Republic of Hungary, not only in Serbia, but double citizens will be able to work in police. I would like to appeal to the all-national MPs to extend this amendment to fellow Members George Milicevic in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63996	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63997	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, here is an amendment to Article 14 where we have asked that after saying: "by agreement of the executives and by" the word is added: "written". At first glance, it can be said that it is one technical amendment, but in principle it clearly confirms and specifies what should stand. It's one word, but we think the law should be as precise as possible, that it doesn't leave room for conjecture. We believe that it is necessary to stress explicitly in this place that the consent of a person to be taken over is given in writing. I don't think you have any reason to refuse this amendment. He's basically fixing this law. I think at this session, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, I think he would accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63998	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u63999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, so here I would say that the explanation given just now by fellow Pastor for this amendment to Article 12 is quite similar to this, but I have to say that the amendment will not mean that the law will be amended and complemented by a good law or that it will not be discriminatory, but it should really be supported, which is talked about by fellow Pastor, because you see how much we show that all the state of Serbia is trying to be modern, and that may be one of the arguments why, let's say, neither the Shiptari in Kosovo should seek independence and be separatised, but that they enjoy all the rights that are given in the state of Serbia in the right way, so perhaps even to extend them, in contrast with the mentioning of Slovakia, or to give you an example that in the police and in Germany, which is the most people of the European Union, you cannot do if you are not six generations of those six generations of those countries back, which is of course, which is not a much less than the right of national citizens, which is the right of course, which is the six generations, which is not the six generations less than the same age, which is the right of the country. But here, look at this article 14 where we give the amendment. In fact, the government has suggested that after the word "competition" the words are added: "or by taking over from another body by agreement of the executives and with the consent of the person to be taken over". We asked for it to change, that is, to delete this part completely, in fact, we added a full member, where we wrote that the employment relationship at the Ministry is based exclusively on a public competition and then we explained why. It is entirely wrong that at a time when the United Nations police are targeted as Serbia's most corrupt state service, they now add another element to a law that can contribute to corruption. So, employment in the public service without competition, we have so written in the explanation, is contrary to the principle of equal availability of jobs in public services prescribed by Article 53. The constitution and the International Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, whose Serbia is a signator. The international conventions on preventing corruption also insist on respecting this principle. Simply, this amendment, which adds that in a state like Serbia, where they accuse us of being a part-declar state, that parties decide everything, we should now add the possibility of taking over from another body, agreement by the executives, and with the consent of the persons taking over employees. Just a public competition, it's the only solution to the state service, where it falls and the police, if we really want to be honest about fighting corruption, which is the biggest problem in the country. For this I hope that the responsible MPs, including Mr Pastor, who spoke earlier, as this is also one of such amendments, as well as Article 12, will accept this amendment, and that, if the government does not want to fight corruption, we, as parliament, will show that we want to stop this greatest monster for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia on the tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64000	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64001	We need to look at this member with two aspects. One is legal, the other is financial. I'll read it for the public. In article 19, it stands like this – a police officer and other police officers cannot perform jobs or independent and any other activity that is incompatible with police officers' jobs. As it is unprofessionally written, it turns out that some that are compatible with activities, i.e. compatible jobs, could be done by a police officer. I say we have to look at this from a legal point of view and a constitutional and legal aspect, because this is what we bring directly into the position of a particular category of workers that I cannot do certain jobs, which is also a violation of the Constitution and freedom of work and employment. But given the importance of the MUP and the police and police officers and police officers, I can't do it. The simplest thing was to be legalized. Now, in my amendment, I asked you to delete the words "and each other." He means every other act that's incompatible with a police officer's affairs. You refused, or you gave a negative opinion, so you say - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why accepting amendments and language interpretation would lead to the conclusion that police officers can carry out other actions that are not independent, and that is not the urgency of the provision in the bill. It's an unmistakable explanation, it doesn't stand, because neither was this intention. Now, in a financial sense, we have to say that you don't do everything you have to do as a state to these people. If you deny them the right to work, then you must give them adequate...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64002	Two minutes. Thank you. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Mico Rogovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64003	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Only on the previous amendment, which my colleague Shormaz gave me, will I state my position as SNS. I'm sorry the minister isn't present. I believe he is an extremely serious man, although he has offered to resign, or all of his functions offered to the prime minister, or Prime Minister, then the prime minister was to be present here, so that we would not have the possibility of not being able to communicate now, because the representatives of the ministry are disabled by our act to participate in communication. Please pass it on to him. In the event of a failure to adopt amendments to Article 112 relating to employment in this manner, we will certainly, as a party, initiate a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the member mentioned. It further complicates all relations and everything this law has in order to do well and deal with unions, everything else. I therefore appeal to you that, indeed, in the event of the non-admission of amendments to this article and of such impossible employment, practically only in this sector, you intervene and transfer the Minister to prevent these dimensions from accepting the dimensions of the Constitutional Court. It is not a threat, but simply an obligation also because of the assessment of the UN representative, who is in charge of monitoring the situation in Serbia, which unfortunately notes the fact that once again, corruption in this large scale is present, unfortunately, and in this sector. In Article 19. The bill, in Article 19(2), for the sake of the people who observe this transmission, I must point out that it deals with the provisions of Article 133 of the existing law. Police officers and other police officers are said to be unable to perform jobs or on their own and any other activity, which are incompatible with police officers' affairs. As long as this situation is in Serbia, as long as this situation is with the standard of people employed in police and with their incomes, which you know well, the practical provisions of this article in Article 133, that is, Article 19, remains a dead letter on paper. You can't ask someone with a salary of 25, 30,000 to do nothing else in life, not to do any business. It is perfectly normal under all other laws that it cannot perform similar, or related activities outside of working hours, but it has to live on something, at best one member of the family is employed and this family is really hard to support from the mentioned incomes. It is further said in Section 2 that the minister's act is closer to defining business. Can't stand a legal formulation like this, nor normatively technical. What does this mean, "defined"? He can't stand the law to define something. We're not in school from first to fourth grade to define something. The Minister's Act requires that something be prescribed, not defined. That is why, both in principle and in individual debate, we also drew attention to this law, and some other laws, which in this normistic and technical regard, simply this law, before it came to the Assembly, had to pass the secretariat responsible for this. If the Secretariat already exists and if censorship is not done under this law, it is really funny that such proposals and such legal normative frameworks and normative technical concepts come to the Assembly. The minister will define something. He can't define, he has to prescribe. Especially in this area that is very important and important for this country. There is no definition, it is simply prescribed or not emphasized. Accordingly, I urge us from the SNS to not go into any more important reasons for amending and supplementing the law. It simply needs to be aligned with legal technical, or normative, and that the word "defined" cannot stand in a legal proposal like this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64004	Two minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64005	Gentlemen of the Ministry, what is not clear to you here in the proposal for this amendment? It was necessary to intervene in the applicable law when it comes to Article 133. But you can see how we separated here - "the authorized official cannot perform another professional activity", item 2. - "other police officers and other police officers cannot perform jobs or other actions that are incompatible with the police affairs of officials." What's not clear about that? What was provided for in the applicable law was not really clear enough. And with the act of the minister, the tasks and actions referred to in Article 2 as well as the conditions for out-of-work operations are defined. Second. In an explanation, the government says -- it will be a problem for the commissioner of security at the football club and so on, to be disproved and disabled to go and make money there. So a police officer can go to another sports organization, be a member and take money, but other officials can't go anywhere. You must make a difference, gentlemen, between authorized and unauthorized. Authorities cannot deal with other business, they can only be authorised under the terms and sublegal act of the minister. So this surprises me, how you behave, and what explanations you give to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64006	The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64007	Thank you. Since we're discussing this amendment, you haven't adopted all the arguments we discussed in the principle debate. When you want to correct an injustice, you cannot, by giving more rights that have no basis for that breadth of justice that you foresee to do, but you can also stimulate other officials of some other ministries to seek this right. And when you're good, you've got five kids, you're good to one thing in particular to the other, it's just a question of when the next child is going to ask for that right that actually makes the three of you unequal, and no, it leads to some increased rights of these two people. I've defined the whole law in a good part of it in an administrative way, the failures that usually happen in a neglected entire border called the police, in their poor working conditions, in that it's not protecting the reputation of the police, but it's allowed everyone to be corrupt, to talk about everyone in one way or another, instead of having the whole society and the right M.P.O. initiates solving the basic problems that the police are only acting on, that you can only actually improve the position of the police, and not impose so much work on them, in such poor working conditions and with such small wages, equipment etc. This member is something different from the general position. You are changing Article 138 to police officers, where you say they are entitled to a salary fee of 100% of the basics you would receive as if it were working, increased for the addition of Article 146(3) of this law and for police officers who are going to be pregnant, you are also predicting the remuneration of Article 1 of this article. We proposed the following to our amendment. A police officer, during the maintenance of pregnancy and maternity leave, has the right to pay a salary in the amount laid down in a law governing the salaries of civil servants and collective contract. All the time I can assure you that you can't treat all the police officers the same because some are exposed to work injuries, exposed to life threats, exposed to increased threat measures, but that not everyone else who isn't exposed can't stand in the rain, not in the cold, not on the road, nor are the targets drunk, drugged, those who, for whatever reason or obsess, have come across a police officer at that moment and are just looking for, hitting, harming or even taking life, with those who sit behind the counters in a number of police administrations and doing their job in warm and solid conditions. I repeat, I'm employed at Telecom. I can't ask myself to be given an extra for working on heights and high-quality climbers or gloves, when it's only the installers doing that on the banners, on radio-based columns, which are really exposed to all and various working conditions. It's not equality. Equality is when you give an equal level of security for an equal threat. Equality when you pay equally for equal work. You're just doing it the opposite way. You give every police officer more rights than a colleague from another ministry. Everyone's gonna rush to get a job at the M.O.P. Is that the purpose of this law? No, it's not. So, police officers who have a more vulnerable job, who are exposed to some major dangers, need compensation increased for work and longer maternity leave and all possible conditions of protection, even more than to fellow men. But in this way define a different position in the authority of the administration, and for one ministry compared to another, I think it's counterproductive. I told you you were just creating envy for others in relation to your ministry. And then every problem that's small in the MUP will be even bigger and more frequent target of attack in the tabloids, in that press that has no responsibility for taking individual views. According to the Police Law, the supplement of Article 146 of Article 3 is part of the basic salary of a police officer. It is completely unnecessary for you to write that this increases the fee. It's like when you step up, you underline a word to know how much you give them. It's not necessary, if we've defined it as part of the basic salary, there's no need to specify it double here. How does the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies stipulate that compensation in these cases is at the height of the basic salary, if you do not make a correction, the question can be asked – is it even allowed to put in such a provision? I'm sure there'll be a question of her interpretation. Until the interpretation arrives, she won't be able to apply. We have proposed, by a change in attitude two, that the rights of police officers and everyone else be uniformed. Because protecting motherhood, protecting a woman and her motherhood in a way that only protects a special woman, shows not the intention of society to protect women and motherhood, but to protect 357 XY persons employed both that and that ministry, you have to admit that this is a big difference. I have the impression that this kind of approach is only in this, where, mostly, the parts of the collective contract are prescribed into the law. The urge of a dame to make this country hold on to something. So, since you didn't stick to a collective contract in the police force, so you provided people with the rights that were prescribed there, people now say -- let's rewrite it into the law now, maybe they'll respect it. It's not even a guarantee. Have you used all the funds the Budget Law has made possible for you? You might take advantage of it, but it's not worth it, the Budgetary System Act says -- the finance minister can, by his decision, change the appraisal however he wants. Absolutely can, because in the last two amendments to the Budgetary System Act, the right is given to, if revenues and inflows to the budget are not what they expect, the finance minister can reduce all others' contributions accordingly. Who knows to what extent the revenues are made? Who knows, if we've been reviewing what's already happened and it's public, and that's social product growth data, it's down 3% of the prime minister's advisors? You'll tell me that you have reliable information based on which no one can take away your funds. You might think or want to believe, and I'm telling you that the inflow and revenue in the budget, which are the basis for someone to cut your transfer funds, ask local self-government how they went, how much less the government passed on to them, although the law required that they transfer those transfer funds as the law says. All the time I've been saying, we're dealing with the consequences instead of the reasons. This is not a way to create greater rights for someone, if you do not raise those rights to that same level, and it is not worth increasing the rights of anyone if we do not have the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64008	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64009	In Article 22. The proposal, in the introductory sentence of Article 138, which is the subject, we speak these words about which I spoke only a few times increased for the addition set out in Article 146 paragraph 3 of this law are deleted. I repeat that it is unnecessary to write that this increases the fee. As the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies stipulates that compensation is in these cases, you would be making a lot of trouble by adopting the law. You know that the receipts and salaries of civil servants are determined by the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants and that they are fully arranged for all civil servants. This law stipulates that certain salaries are paid by individual laws, and salaries and fees, different offices for individual categories of officials or for individual bodies. Now, if you, the law that generally resolves the question, allows some services, bodies and individuals to be singled out, normally according to the quality of work or under the conditions of work, even though you now ignore it and otherwise settle this issue, only for certain types of officials, it would be quite the opposite of the Constitution and the violation of the basic principle of rule of law, the unity of the legal order and the equality of all before the Constitution of law. At the time when Mr Kljajevic led the Legislative Secretariat, no law could come into the assembly procedure without checking its compliance with the general legal system. But if it's a time no one wants to remember, and now you have a constitutional court position where every law that is passed must be in accordance with the general legal system. I really don't think that you can, by individual law, change the provisions of the law for individual employees, because you literally create space for another ministry to appear to us as the next draft of the law and demand for its employees the same rights. I won't question the legitimate dissatisfaction of police officers with their position and their working conditions for a moment, but I think you've chosen a completely wrong path to correct that position and I don't think that the position of police officers in this law will simply be resolved and the whole law has taken place since the shortest time and the weight of the pressure you've been exposed to. Since you entered this government and vice-president of the government, you have been advised not to let what the Home Office's affairs are take away from you. They took your most useful jobs, the most attractive, and they left you to be someone who was critical of the ranks in front of the police stations, someone who had to come out here with laws that proposed to change personal documents, change tables, anything that required expenses, and it wasn't so necessary. You've been criticized, and someone else has made a lot of money out of it. That someone else is the one who made the passport printing machines into the National Bank and coin money as a company that can do the job of printing documents. I understand that peace in the coalition is very important and that you cannot enter into the third stage of the job, very lucrative for some who will not be so easy to give in to the profit they have already entered, but I really don't understand that with all the help that you have from all the parties, regardless of who they belong to, that the position of the police is improved and that better working conditions are allowed for them, not to be used, but to be used again on that change from the budget left in this half-empty case of the Serbian state and still the problem is not solved equally for all civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64010	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group's time. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment adding a new Article 22a after Article 22. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64011	Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you came and it's a shame you haven't been before. I know your obligations and that you haven't been able to consider all this, but consider these amendments to the SRS, which have already passed, so you'll see how effective they have been and how much they improve the text of the law. As for the proposed member where I have submitted the amendment, given the dangers and weight, complexity, as well as the responsibility of the jobs and tasks that police officers carry out during work, I believe it is justified and realistic that instead of the amount of six paid severance payments received, the amount of 12 salaries received. It's real because people get killed and do hard jobs. They work in the rain, in the sun, in the snow, in the cold, and expose their heads, sacrifice their head, and their life. What is also important, Mr. Minister, is that in one amendment, they appear not to be commanding units, but to be strong. Who's proposing that? He's proposing to you Nenad Canak with his MPs. One day he proposes and seeks the Republic of Vojvodina. How is it possible, Mr. Minister, what are sectoral workers doing and what are they doing? You have a case where 443 vehicles were stolen by a thief. How is it possible, when he was tried and filed 600 criminal charges, and for 12 years he was convicted, found at large and found to have stolen 443 vehicles? That's what the News published on November 5th of this year. That's why the sectoral principle of work...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64012	People's MP, unless you want to give the person you quote a severance note, please remind yourself that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64013	Well, I'm sorry the minister hasn't been up until now. I am convinced that, with our argument that he could hear that he was there, as his colleagues have heard, he would probably accept this amendment until now. I'm convinced that that's how it would be, but unfortunately, perhaps later in the conversation with his associates, he will agree and convince the government to accept these good amendments. (President: People's MP, I'm sorry, it's my slip. Please sign in. Time's about to begin. Excuse me, one more time. All right. Loud enough, I saw the minister smile. I speak loud enough, so he heard me. In this article, namely, the Government proposes, i.e. The ministry, and I would say again that those talks we've heard about with the trade unions, suggested that article 141 reads: "The police officer who is entitled to pensions belongs to a tax-free severance payment from the salary received for the last six months." We have suggested that this member be changed, not to stand like this, but to say, "The police officer has the right to pay his pension on retirement in accordance with the law governing the salaries of civil servants and tenants." Mrs Tabakovic spoke about it earlier. We simply can't pass other laws, which exist, now that we have a problem with unions within one ministry. It doesn't have to be the police. Here comes the education for certain things, we always have some in health care. So why should we regulate it differently in the police department now? We believe that police officers should be entitled to severance upon retirement, determined in accordance with the law governing it, means the salaries of civil servants by that law, because they are civil servants. All other specificities of their work are already recognised at the height of the salary, the benefited internship and other rights. But there's no reason that when you retire your severance severances, it's only for police officers to be determined differently. It would simply have been much better years ago, if we had looked at such a thing, if we had acted differently when the Budget Law was passed. Maybe the money wouldn't have been scattered into other things and in other ways where it wasn't necessary, and then there would have been more money for the M.O.P. or what was also mentioned earlier that all jobs that could have been profitable for the police would be given to someone else, such as printing passports, personal documents, etc. Now we have this problem, we have a problem with employees, with unions, a bad economic situation, and we're trying to make a bad bill to change it, which can't be long-term. You're aware of that, you know this can't be long-term, it's even a question of whether it's applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64014	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Prime Minister, First Vice-President - Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64015	First of all, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to apologize to you for today, because today there is an International Conference today in Belgrade on the fight against organised crime, which I chair, and the guests are interior ministers from the region. I came while they were at lunch, so I'm gonna have to go back. I'm sorry I'm not here today, when it comes to the discussion of details. I want to distract you, so we don't discuss these things without any of my attitudes. The law on police has also been passed in order to be a special law, not that police officers would be subject to the Law on civil servants and tenants. I would remind you that this is why police officers are not in the same status as other civil servants and tenants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you passed the Army Act and no one was talking about why the Law of the Army was then adopted. Why don't you professional soldiers interpret as civil servants? I understand what you're talking about because there was a legal confusion until we changed this law, because the Police Act defined special conditions against civil servants, but they never came true, and then the police were not subject to the Police Act or the Civil Service Act or the Labour Act. Then the police officers or the only ones in this country who didn't have the right to compensation for overtime, night work, work during the holidays, etc. There's a situation to come to some insight or come out on the spot, and the people in the judiciary have the right to the living room and the rest of the accessories, and the cop doesn't. When someone does the art, a cop has to do it on official duty, and the rest of them get paid for it. For that reason, there were amendments and additions to the Police Act. I have to say that these changes and additions have long been the subject of a review of trade unions, different lawyers, different ministries. I have an understanding of what you're talking about, I just want to point out that it's not the same anymore. Police officers are not in the classical sense of the words of civil servants and tenants. Also, so far in our ministry, police officers have been synonym for all employees. From now on, our ministry will have police officers and civil servants, and this means that employees of the Ministry, who have police powers, will be police officers, and the rest of the administration will have the status of civil servants. A special collective agreement has been signed in this respect. Please keep an eye on how it says for police officers. A special collective contract applies to police officers who will be with police powers, and others will be subject to the Law on civil servants, a collective contract signed for civil servants and deputies. When you talk about it, you should keep that in mind. I think all of this you've suggested is, basically, useful and positive, just to know what's going on here, so there's no confusion. This amendment to the Law on the Police is due, above all, to this working and social position of employees, and will only follow the amendment of the Law on the Police Department from the aspect of the assessment of whether police should function in this way, police administrations, units, management, police powers, means of use of coercion, etc. This isn't done in a hurry, this has been said for almost a year, since we signed the collective agreement. In order for this to apply from January 1st, we need to amend the Police Act, because on the basis of this, we need to develop a new systematization, a new rules on wages. The basics for professional military personnel and police officers are even. I say once again, you keep an eye on the administration, people who don't have police authority in the police department and the I.P.D. don't have the status of police officers. They've had it so far. That means they won't have the authority, which means they won't have an underprivileged job experience, as they have so far been. The second question is whether it's right for these people. In any case, it is a system that applies in Europe and in all other police. It is simply not possible for a secretary or a company officer in the MUP, who has no police authority, to have the same benefits that a police officer who works on the street or intervenes in the fight against crime, terrorism, etc. I understand all the amendments, but I think we should be clear here, since Mr. Shormaz was there, and he was the DSS MP in the last term, whose Vice President Dragan Jocic was the minister. Then the secretary of the ministry was Mr. Todorovic, he wrote a law on the police then, which you adopted, on the other hand he now wrote amendments and additions to the law. So, therefore, no one here has affected him on the side, and I think that's enough reason to vote at least you, Mr. Shormaz, for changes and additions to this police law. If you don't want it for me, at least vote for Todorovic. It is not Dragan Todorovic, to be understood, but Milorad Todorovic, secretary of the interior ministry, who was in that place and at the time of Minister Dragan Jocic and who was in charge of writing this current Police Act, has now written these amendments and additions to the Police Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64016	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64017	Mr. Minister, I made these same arguments in the principle debate, and if it says in any article of the bill that you delivered to us, even with indications, that you distinguish between the category of police officers and these administrative workers, please let us know. We're written enough, and at least on average intelligent, that such a difference is made and that it says, they certainly wouldn't have potentiated, and right all the time, and we're saying that they can't have the same rights that deserve them and those who don't deserve them. Secondly, Mr. Shormaz's argument is not less significant, quality and valuable whether he was an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia or is today an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party, and I really do not find it correct to comment at all. We're talking about arguments and the strength of arguments, not who brings them out. Because of your colleague, who helps you defend the amendments, which she was a little reluctantly nodding when I spoke about your possibilities and your rights to use budget funds under the Budgetary System Act. I'm always talking about what I know so well. Articles 61 and 62. The budget system law speaks of 62nd in the temporary suspension of execution, and 61st speaks of changes in appraisals during the year. You can pretend that this is not interesting to you, but I will read for the sake of the public: "Aproprietations cannot be transmitted only between legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and within the executive even social security organisations can change 5% of the value. Direct beneficiaries of the budget, with the approval of the Minister, or the local authority of the Finance Authority, can reroute funds to up to 10%." They have a regular reserve, a special reserve, the possibility that 10% plus five, without any approval of the Assembly, will be rerouted within the government, within the judicial authority, etc. I'm not crying for you, but what you're not talking about is my duty to speak, that the bad Budgetary System Act has made it impossible for you to schedule time and resources as you would probably use. The budget report, you know what he's saying? That the tides are getting smaller and smaller and it's not a problem at all why the cops rebelled because of their position. And last time I said, someone else has a way, a right and a commitment to make their own budgets, to show in the budget, and to measure it. Even these can be limited in terms of the right to make available and use of those funds. Yeah, it's a crisis, and it needs to be controlled. What about the cops? They're being sent to the street. I said last time, to fish who drives faster, to stop and ask each of us if it was his will or if someone sent him to do it, so someone's willing to comment on it as an extortion, if he's told that punishment can be redeemed. I'll say it if others don't have the courage. To the people whose spider lifts a car unjustly in a court of misdemeanor, how do they settle? They are required to make donations, around 1,000 euros in value, so that they are not listed in the records of those who have committed violations. My dear gentlemen, it's not the police officer's fault, the one who needs to be fixed and who I stand for. Who's to blame that someone can buy freedom at any level, that someone's application can lie in a drawer, someone's to tear up, someone's to erase, someone's to give a clerk more rights and someone smaller? It's a problem for all of us as states, and let's not hide problems under the carpet, let's not say that there are solutions, and we haven't seen them, so we're reacting to them. This energy of mine, as I say, do not take it as anger, but the good intention of the MPs to help you as ministers and especially your ministry to lay your hand on what belongs to you and to spend it best, without coercion, without forcing you, without someone else to arrange for you to do so, and to keep that spending in front of the public by having a law on public procurement that will only securely sensitive procurement behind the curtain, and everyone else on the portal and available to the competition to buy the cheapest, the best. When you fight for it, Minister, then it'll be a lot easier for you to find for all those cop rights and the funds or the ones that are approved here to spend them the best way. I have no doubt that you would do it the best way, but you now have no right under the Budgetary System Act, which directly, indirectly, and you have no option. Of those who are themselves today, and the government and the opposition we hear, I really don't want to say it again, I think the stupidity is that your function is protocol. No, I don't think you're as vice president as protocol as a function. You have a lot of work to do, and I want you to use your function, strength, and energy of a young man to improve the position of the police. We're helping you with that, but we don't want to repair the position of the bellow reason for the police to be even more hated. We've all heard the two categories separate for the first time. I said that according to the Civil Service Act, there is a possibility that certain bodies and types of business, beyond that law, and not changed, and without this, would be given special fees. So we understand each other perfectly, and don't conflict over what we need to solve together, but let those solutions be possible and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64018	The deputy president of the parliamentary group's time has been used and three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. MP Dragan Shormaz, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64019	I think I'm entitled to a replica, since I've been mentioned beyond the agenda. I'll be brief. [[President: You've been given the right to a replica.]] Minister, and in this term, I was at the DSS MP's club for a while, while Vojislav Kostunica did not democratically throw me out because I said it was time for his political pension. The time you're talking about, we were together on the Defence and Security Committee, and you voted for the law as chairman of that committee and as an MP in the National Assembly. We're changing it now. Mr. Todorovic knows very well what I think of him and there is no need to talk about it. He knows how much I respect him, but I don't think there are any things behind him that I've talked about the amendment before. Let's say that behind the word "competition", in Article 112, it adds "or taking over from another body with the agreement of the manager and with the consent of the person to be taken over", which allows you, for example, to transfer Mr. Mikacevic from AMS to the police without a public competition, and that police are accused that the state body that is most corrupt currently in Serbia. Or from another body, if not the Association of Citizens or the AMS, but there are other organs. We only advocate public competition. For example, that police can be sent by the government's decision to Afghanistan to the UN Mission, and that the Assembly makes a decision that the military cannot go on the same mission, because there is both a military and a police mission. It is true that the Constitution does not say that the police must be asked for that permit, but because it is a mistake when we have passed the Constitution does not mean that we could not write in the law that the National Assembly is deciding on it, because we can really come into an absurd situation to say hypothetically in Syria to send missions, both military and police, and that Parliament is therefore deciding whether to send an army to the UN Mission and that the government is going to decide whether to send the police, so that we have two completely different decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64020	Thank you. Does Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64021	You know what, when it's a word, I don't think of this as any controversy, I thank Mrs. Tabakovic for the compliment that I'm young, but I'm already 45 years old, so I don't know what young people look like if I'm young, I used to call Mr. Petronivic Uncle Miso and now, about, that's what they call me. In any case, I don't think we're at all fighting or fighting here at all, I just informed you that I think it's correct that all police officers, to simply make a difference between them, those with police powers and those who don't have police powers. According to the police law, the schedule of these jobs is being systematized, so it is therefore necessary to adopt a systematisation act and an act defining the benefits. This means that everyone will be aware of whether they have the status of an authorised person, etc. and how much of an underprivileged internship he has or if he's even got an underprivileged internship. It's simple, it's estimated, and I think that that same year, the Law on State Officers and the Police Act was passed, meaning 2005, that it's necessary for the police to separate themselves from the rest of the civil servants' corps. Now all this remains a matter and talks about improving their status, but it is important that they be systemically resolved. We've had one mess in the police system and simply, we've had situations like this that haven't been defined enough, that we don't know which law is being applied, that the provisions don't apply, and that led to, for example, that we now have one provision that we're changing, and that's that every cop when someone, someone here, has been saying that they have some, as much as they get practical distance from the M.P.D. in a court procedure in 90% of cases, they come back and the Ministry is certainly in this year, two, three, one billion, two billion, paid simply because they represent us in court of the Public Attorney's Office, and objective public defenders are not in a position to get out and most of it has been lost in the past, just because nobody even shows up on those hearings. We therefore left opportunities at the request of the union to determine and discuss a tender for some law firm that would represent and employees of the ministry who had no legal protection, etc. I only mention this as one example. So it's important to me here that we systematically resolve the matter of police officers. We have a collective contract, a special collective contract, we have the Police Act, and now, next time, we can only talk to the unions and employees about whether the base is small or should be bigger, whether some of these decimals or percentages you're talking about will be like this or like that, but we've systematically solved that question. So we had a situation that there was simply a big discrepancy between the high demands that the police have and simply a completely irregular legal system, when it comes to the MUP. Mrs. Tabakovic is right, we did not lose, we did not even get any money for issuing passports because all the money went to the NBS, or the Banknote Office. Three million and seven hundred thousand passports were issued. Then you can imagine, and in doing so, our passport, I say, is hard for people to live in, and surely these twenty-something euros is what it costs, and it's a lot, but it's the cheapest passport that exists in the whole, biometric. It's just that our ministry had nothing to do with it but cost no income. The only revenue we've made is our own income, one part of the revenue from these new license plates and driving and traffic licenses. But you know what, the license plate will last another month to issue new ones, and then it's seven years and it'll only be issued every year for some new registrations, so new vehicles, etc. Now this system of own income is being introduced, we have in this second law on emergency situations and also in amendments to the law, I don't know if that law is in any part of public order and peace, where one part could also be used to equip the police. But if we look at general trends, it's not a problem, it's not a small problem, it's a big problem. Because in 2003, the MUP had 9% in Serbia's budget, and today it has 5% or 6%. In 2003, the participation of salaries in the MUP budget was 56%, and today it is 82%. You have to be 18% out of your paychecks that are the way they are and that they're unhappy with. So, you have to equip the police, train her, train her, train her, have all kinds of other actions that we do cost everything. One derby costs between 50 and 100,000 euros, costing the MUP. You think someone's paying for our ministry. So it's a protected personality. So we give them a car and even fuel. You still have concerts, you think organizers care about security, they always say that's the job of the police, and I don't talk about a million other events that are being held, and that's why this problem arises. Which is completely disrupted relationships, and this is what I'm talking about now, so watch out for meetings with financial experts, so on. And they tell me, so what are you rebelling about so you have more than you need in Europe? Then it turns out we have more than we should, not less than we should. It is a lack of understanding of the situation in which the country is located not only economically but also the security, that is, the role of the police and the MUP, and I think the same applies to other security structures. So my request is for you, given that I and the police, I assume, will observe these debates and voting and everything else, I am absolutely in favour of them being responsible but on the other hand to try to provide them with some status that is better than it's ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64022	Before we get back to work. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that today we will be working after 18 hours if there is the need for a search to be completed in particular of the amendment and addition of the Law that is currently subject to our work. So, when we're done with the amendments to this bill, that's when the afternoon part of our session will end. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we intervened in Article 25, which refers to a new member of 142, to erase dangerous phenomena in this new member of the Syntagma, because we believe that this is a very broad concept that can be interpreted in practice in different ways and in practice it can cause great problems. Otherwise, I am pleased that Mr. Dacic is present because I want to inform him that a dangerous phenomenon has occurred today, in a legal and political sense. Namely, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic called on Serbs at barricades in northern Kosovo...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64024	National MP, I ask you to speak on the subject of the agenda, that you do not abuse the presence of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and that you do not feel that you have the right to violate the Rules of Procedure because the news, the information you wish to share with the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, is important. So, you're under obligation to talk about the amendment, the search in detail, and so are you and all the other MPs. If you'd like to apply for an amendment, please sign up for another minute and 10 seconds on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64025	Mrs. Comic, I keep talking about the amendment. So I cite one example of this dangerous phenomenon that can happen in practice, because it is a dangerous syntagma itself to that extent is broad that it can be interpreted in different ways. Now as someone who has submitted the amendment, I am trying to get into a conversation with the present minister and see if he agrees with me that it is a dangerous phenomenon when the president of the Republic calls on Serbs to get off the barricade and thus stab the Serb people in the back of the KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64026	People's MP, I now warn you that no matter how much undeniable talent we have as speaker and speaker and how much undeniable knowledge, much greater than mine, we have when it comes to the Assembly that we do not put together a mockery of provisions that prescribe my and your conduct. So if you want to talk about the amendment you have another 15 seconds. Sign up. I ask the other MPs not to receive. (Vitomir Plužarevic, from the post: The minister agrees. ) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic, please and I warn you not to throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64027	So, here, Mr. Minister, you've heard what a dangerous phenomenon is, so please explain to me whether what happened today could be...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64028	Thank you, People's Messenger. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64029	We have submitted an amendment to Article 25 requesting the addition of an existing member...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64030	I ask the People's MP, Milorad Kristin, not to disturb the order of the session. You have already been warned of behaviour that is inappropriate, that you do not throw either me or the deputy prime minister of the government and that you do not interfere with the MP, Jorgenko Tabakovic, as he sets out the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, I also ask you not to throw away and not to interrupt the session. Forgive the interruption, it is necessary that all MPs start acting politely in the National Assembly session room. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64031	We asked Article 25 of the Law to make a good practice that most of the cases are conducted in the police when without competition, and after injury or death of one member of the police is employed by one of the family and without competition. We have requested that in the event of the death of a police officer who acted as a result of a work injury, injury outside work, in relation to the work or professional illness of the family of a police officer, i.e. the persons he supported have the right to one-off assistance and other types of assistance in accordance with the law governing the salaries of civil servants and collective contract and general regulations in the work. The rights you prescribe should remain. We believe that the rights of Article 1 do not affect the family's right to compensation for material and immaterial damages, nor does the aid received be included in determining the amount of compensation. A member of the family of a police officer in Section 1 may be employed by the Ministry without public competition if he meets the general conditions. Maybe some stories on the subject as current, as dangerous, as important to all of us are more fun, but this solves it in a really real way. A case where a police officer is no longer able to work and give the right because of a work injury and as a result of a professional illness, we say not to have to but can hire him if he meets the general conditions without competition, because we have foreseen the competition as a measure. What could you have done so far to improve the position of police? Here, in the last rebalancing of 30m euros, Serbia's government has been approved for the purchase of aircraft. Is that more important than the position of police officers and their working conditions? The justice ministry bought a new Euroengineering building and adaptations and resolutions for the purposes of the basic court amounted to 13m euros. That is a total of 43m euros. The Anti-Corruption Agency to buy a new 4.5m-euro business building. For interest payments on foreign loans, with 14 billion dinars scheduled, an increase of another six billion has been made. Only that difference for interest when I add 30 million for the plane, 13 million for the Justice Department building, 4.5 million for the Anti-Corruption Agency building, that's 47.5 million euros. Half of Belgrade are state authorities, organisations, agencies, administration bodies, etc. And that's what's even worse than any of the weeds, and there's money in the budget for that, and there's no money for the police, we have to law on special rights. It has been approved by a rebalancing of 66m euros in interest more than is foreseen by the basic budget law, and today we are talking about no means to improve the state and conditions for police work. I'm not telling any story. I'm not verbal about any improvement in the situation, I'm just giving you a few digits where you could reroute, not deny regular jobs. Why is this important? If, for example, you would prescribe the right to work without a family member's competition or part of his family in that legal sense, you would really show that you are willing to systematically resolve one right, not that the right depends on the will of the current police minister or on the current means or on someone's assessment that this particular family or those conditions of death deserve help. Are you ready to accept the difference between me and the argument given by someone else or an explanation? Systemic resolution implies that the law states that a person who lays a right is qualified by means of a case, documents, and achieves it, regardless of who begs, begs, begs, or bribes. A state that has no intention of solving these matters in this way does not seriously advocate fighting corruption or improving one of the authorities that has a effect on corruption and not on prevention. They have to prevent the good laws that I've mentioned from affecting them. The reasoning you have given for the refusal of this amendment is like Article 24, where you say the amendment is not accepted because the provisions of the bill are in line with the provisions of the special collective agreement, which further means that they are agreed with the unions in the police, as well as relevant state bodies, which determines the specificities of the work in the MUP and the conduct of police affairs. How do we translate this -- no, no money, you will, but by collective agreement, maybe you will? Here, on one amendment, you had a chance to show how it was systemically solved. You have refused and it speaks enough of the promoter, but also of us who are trying to correct it, because we don't say you have to do everything but you can if you meet the conditions that you predict as an organ. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64032	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64033	We got an explanation just before, which would be acceptable from the minister of police, in fact, for something similar to these amendments all the time, except what he said isn't in the law. It just doesn't say it in the law, and it doesn't. That is why, we have also proposed this amendment to say, "it sets out by means of an act on the salaries of employees in the ministry, which it brings with the consent of the Government" to replace the words "the Government determines", because again according to the applicable rules, the level of salary in the authorities of the government determines, which is responsible for the work of the Authority both under the Constitution and for the achievement of the budget. It is therefore unacceptable for individual ministries, either ministers or executives, to prescribe salaries here, each for their own ministry, or bodies. It's simply the opposite of all applicable legal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64034	The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64035	Here, this is exactly what we argued about and where we asked for Article 147 to be deleted and talked about how additional coefficients determined in accordance with Article 146 of the basic application increase wages by 30% to 50% compared to the salaries of other civil servants. In a way, the minister explained that for these very reasons, to single out and particularly regulate the position of police officers, the law passed with such provisions, that it respects the efforts and risks to which police officers are exposed. But if I ask you again -- is it possible for gentlemen instead of a quick and harsh reaction, when sometimes for the frequent loss of police officers to give a reward, I'm sorry, it can't be called a reward, but it's given as a provision, help, instead of 24, 36 salaries, which comes to him somewhere between 10,000 euros so far and you're raising that fee to 15 thousand euros, then you know that there are at least three ministers who carry an hour more expensive than the amount of compensation you want to make up for the loss of human life? Will someone please tell me it's incomparable? He may be in a normal state, but in the state of Serbia, where someone who comes to the post of minister, and it's his first job, without any work experience, didn't come from a royal family, he doesn't have a factory that's been operating 30 years back and you say that he got it through regular work and he could buy it for himself. You haven't seen him reporting that he's the winner of the lottery, or any premium, or any prize for invention, patent or anything, and yet he's wearing, for example. One hour of 15,000 euros and 600 euros in shoes is looking at some of their employees, and then we're saying that we all live in one country and that we need them, they need us to fight for someone's rights and respect for someone's life. I'm not for a country where we're all gonna wear a uniform and have the same conditions of life, but we have to have the same chances of everybody getting to work and live honestly from that job, so let them get rich if they do that kind of work. But without abuse of position, such wealth can rarely be acquired. Whether at least the budget can be used rather than misused so directly and indirectly, that those whose rights we advocate are provided with a truly regular fee for what is called the risk of the business they are dealing with. That's the question you're asking with this law. It is a question that I ask on behalf of those who are open-eyed and ready to see what kind of Serbia we are living in today. What I'm saying is not bitterness, it's just a fact that I don't want to close my eyes or myself as an MP, nor should the citizens close their eyes to it. The standard of all of us, and we all live in some smaller environments, among our friends, acquaintances, speaks enough about how much we live from our work or how we live from other people's work and how we have earned what we have. In private relations, it doesn't have to be important, but in the government and when we talk about the police law, it has to be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64036	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64037	I think this amendment should be rejected, because it's really hard when cops lose their lives. I understand these arguments we heard when officers on duty get hurt. There's no police station you don't get into, so you don't see those names of people who suffered at Kim. Get into the BIA building, and you see the names and last names of the police officers who died on the mission. Come to the C.I.A. base, so you can see the years when these people died. The state really needs to take care of the cops. But now that we're talking about whether all the people who are born in this country, whether we're all society that gives everyone the same chances, you know, some people are born with some inheritance, some people are born with some position in society, some are fighting for that position. Of course, someone can be bothered when he sees a minister with a $15,000 watch and his first job as a minister. I remember, for example, Minister of Information Alexander Vukic, his first job as Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64038	People's MP, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64039	Let me finish. He also looked like a prototype as described. Some people had a problem with that at the time, and some people today have a problem with that. I think this amendment should be rejected. We can now explain widely the reasons for this amendment in one way or another, but I think we should reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64040	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64041	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that I would not now address the MP directly, or MPs, which is not allowed, which is not allowed, I do not know whether you can explain in what context some minister has been saying that he is carrying an hour of 15 thousand euros and shoes of 600, 700 euros and what this has to do with a concrete amendment or law. Secondly, such an alumni are very broad and dangerous. I don't dispute the possibility that one of the ministers might wear it, but set out and say who, and not in such a way as to make insinuations that harm one other thing, which is the essence we're talking about, because there is a tendency here, through the most amendments is directed in terms of correcting what I am law, and already the bill itself is going in the direction of improving working conditions and certain benefits in favour of police officers, which is quite all right. Of course, there are amendments to some opposition parties, or MPs, who are even trying to improve the situation further, but I cannot agree with the amendments that speak for the sake of what the police needs, on behalf of allegedly improving working conditions etc., and in fact through the essence of the amendment it seems to be an attempt to reduce all this. Again, to go back to what I answered. These illusions that are very general are not the subject of today's agenda and do harm to what is essential and what is the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64042	Two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Time is available for seven minutes and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64043	I will answer your question through you, Madam Vice President, and I see no reason for that bitterness at all. There has never been a picture of Mr. Dacic with an expensive watch published anywhere, but the government is an organ as a whole and the budget is one register from which police are not given enough and from which others are more affected. In particular, why is it in the previous amendment to the amendment to Article 27, and it will also be on Article 28 that talks about how fees and compensations and the rights of police officers are, I am in the question that in the case of the death of a police officer, and this law increases the assistance of the family from 24 salaries to 36, which is 10,000 euros so far, so it increases to 15,000, that we consider it to be one of the great aid that the government is now doing for these people, in a situation where individual members of the government have an hour more expensive, and to which my colleague Srdjan must have predicted, I said, not even originating in a family where they could inherit it, nor do such work, because to deal, we would be in conflict of interest, so we had double functions solved. So it's obvious that it wasn't something else that happened, it was something else, but the abuse of something that was in power. I'm not gonna name it. The public knows who I'm talking about, because the appointment of an individual would lead me to the fact that someone has to press charges. That in a country where I don't want to call for immunity, I am immune beyond my knowledge and where we should prove that someone, as I had a case with Janjusevic and Kolesar, was indeed in the entire chain of corruption at the sale of "Cementara", it turned out that people were freed and because of lack of evidence. So I ask you to respect my argument, which I do not specify specifically, but I warn all of us, that we must not hide before such phenomena and that whoever just gets first job, the post of minister in the government, is not responsible enough at the beginning. It can be shown by its responsible work, modes, etc. No one's slowing down his ability to do good. But the one who has the results for himself, where it's more important to buy a 30 million-dollar plane, to pay the interest of 66 million euros more, and you predicted 140 at the beginning of the year, you didn't know you'd need over 200, so that's terrible. Come on, why don't we talk about it? That doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt that we're buying a new agency building, one, the other, the third, that we're investing $13 million for a new court, that we've had such an accident with judicial reform, that doesn't hurt you. But it pains you that some individual is so he can be special, just named for an hour. Is that enough openness for all of us as a society of injustices that are happening, or is it just because we've Googled the mass media and the press and the newspapers and everyone else, spit out who we need, and one day we hear about death, another day about something uglier, the third day we forget that it happened. We must not be insensitive to everything that happens as an injustice, as an abuse, as a marathon procedure, and in the context of a law in which we need resources to improve the position of police officers. I am sure that my colleague Miletic and colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, agree with me, and if we were to move over the budget figures, so that we could find reserves where for all the people we think should improve their position, that position would improve. The fact that the executive authorities have other arches, that they dispute among themselves and look only at how much for their ministry to single out, I am convinced that this is an executive and legislative issue, not you as members of a party or me as members of the opposition. I'm sure. I may have a much better opinion of all people, but I really don't think that some individuals are allowed to spoil the reputation of police, doctors, so if you want some members of the government, which I have not, I dared not, but very clearly and I was very happy that I could praise them when they came out here with good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64044	Five minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64045	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I don't think we need to go any further in the direction of leprosy over one side thing. I still maintain that it is not necessary to go from the essence of this law which has an absolutely good intention and ultimately, when adopted, will produce certain results in order to improve the work of this important body and this important ministry and the entire apparatus that is within the MUP. Of course, and speaking on behalf of the SPS-JS, we have a problem with such generalization and insinuation that the viewer can interpret in one way or another, or get out of context, etc. I will not now, nor are we agents to defend the position of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor are we entering what is a material position, or how it has acquired a certain matter. After all, we are satisfied with the fact, if I understand correctly, that Mrs Tabakovic said that this does not apply to Dacic. It would not be correct to make such insinuations after leaving the minister for justified reasons. If there was a reason for such criticism, then it could have been in his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64046	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64047	From the time of the parliamentary group, I'll be wasting my time. I'll do it again if I have to. Three times. No, it doesn't apply to Minister Dacic by any chance. I said there's never been a photo of his watch published anywhere. On the contrary, he's a man who wants to help resolve the police situation. That's what we're helping him with. Someone thinks it's welcome, someone doesn't. But it doesn't apply to Minister Dacic, the story of a more expensive watch, more expensive than the help of a dead cop's family.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64048	It's been used for 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64049	Gentlemen of the ministry, unlike those who sit here on the right, from the ranks of "zumbula", who simply won't help you in Article 27. Otherwise, it's in the old, the first law, article 147. However, the SRS parliamentary group, I will read as otherwise this amendment reads - the additional coefficient established in accordance with Article 146(2) of this law, applying, the basis increases the salary by 30%-50% compared to the salaries of civil servants. Instead of this 30%, I put it from 40%-50%. This means that the SRS absolutely wants, given the complexity of the work done by police officers, to suggest that the initial increase in the additional coefficient instead of 30% be 40%. I think the explanation is clear. I don't know why you won't help yourself, and also, to adopt this amendment that I have submitted. I'm going to have to ask you to let me know, given that I said so, that there's no point in helping the chief of police of the Sudotica police department, in that he doesn't want to solve the Belenekop case from Belenec for four years and that there's no point in ending it already. Therefore, gentlemen, you must influence and have reports of what individual police administrations are doing to you, what is their effect in solving these criminal acts on the ground, especially in the field of the police administration of Subotica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64050	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64051	I am staying with this amendment and I suggest that the representatives, as authorized in front of the MUP, adopt it. What's important is, we should keep in mind that in the organization of police services and their problems, overtime, duty, during national holidays, it has to be valued. I don't understand why you M.O.P. gentlemen are not responding to the improvement of the material position of police officers. You're reading the paper, and you're getting daily reports, so you can see what kind of situation the police are in. Secondly, Mr. Todorovic, how is it possible when you were preparing this law, that in this law... Mr. Todorovic, I'm speaking to you. If you can answer me, how is it possible when you were preparing this law to keep the district courts and the Supreme Court? You know there is a law and we now have more courts, appeals courts and we have a Supreme Cassation Court. (President: People's MP, please, courts, changes and additions to the police and amendments you can't possibly get in touch with. It is, but it refers to police work. (President: The courts cannot refer to police work. ) The law does not provide, and does not comply with the Constitution and the law, this is the case. He can go somewhere, and he can't go somewhere, you know. The proposal was to delete Serbia's district courts and Supreme Court, with the Supreme Court and the Supreme Cassation Court remaining. That's why I'm suggesting it's a slip.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64052	National MP, amendments and searches can only be carried out by members of the laws which are subject to amendments and additions. You know that better than I do. Then you know why I have to remind you that you're talking about things that have nothing to do with the agenda. People's MP, that courts have to be in some kind of relationship with the police, it's all about something. I really listen very carefully to you, trying to apply the Rules of Procedure and really bring everything into some kind of relationship with something. But when you get to the point where you talk about bill proposals that aren't even on the agenda, it has nothing to do with anything. Please do not throw away the next amendment you have in your defense to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64053	Here, for Article 28, so when you call and I'm not going to comment on Article 29, because this is a specific solution to the position of employees in the police, where your law that solves this as a special case can't be all wrong, but let's say that I accept that there is somewhere in the law what the minister said, that separate police officers and those administrative workers who aren't. These bonuses on the salary, which is the subject of this member, will not be resolved in any way, beyond the Law on the salaries of civil servants. Let's keep us standing by our explanation. The minister has his own position, so let them choose, let them decide how they feel they should.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64054	The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64055	I'm saying, it's the same case. The transfer of civil servants is also resolved by a law that resolves the transfer of civil servants by a general law, but if the minister thinks he can pass regulations on behalf of the ministry he manages, although there is no original authority for it, but if it will improve the state of state officials in this area, let's see if that happens. Let's just say you don't adopt this amendment, it won't be too hard for me to fall, but we'll meet again and we'll talk about whether you were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64056	The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64057	If we can accept that the Civil Service Act is not good enough to address the specificities of the position and work of the police officers, then I see no reason to use it and introduce it into the terminology of the staffing institute. I don't know what a reference in the context of a transfer is, because it's actually a temporary transfer of civil servants, so I'm asking you to make the methodology unique, because to direct someone into something and relocate a civil servant doesn't really matter. I don't think this is just a termological thing, but it's a fundamental remark, so you should have adopted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64058	The 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64059	Article 34 speaks of violations of duty, and you here in law divided them so that we thought it wasn't good enough. In the opening sentence, we suggest that you replace the first word "light" with the words "lighter." For example, the Law on State Officials, which is original, because the MUP is one of the ministries in the government, divides the injuries into easier and harder, not light and heavy. As it is written in the proposal, a name error may not be of particular legal importance, but I believe that while writing the law, it is necessary to manage the use of some standard terms that make it easier to understand and agree. Such failures can sometimes simply have more serious consequences in terms of application, because if you called something an easy injury or an easier one, it is not irrelevant for assessing and measuring the penalty for what it is as an injury. For example, it was written in the explanation of the proposal that the urgency of the emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences for the country's safety. We could draw the conclusion that it's an extremely important law. If it's extremely urgent and important, I really don't know why there are so many harsh and professional terminology errors. I don't think it's exactly in line with the importance and importance we attach to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64060	The 34th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is in the process of searching in particular. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64061	It's about analogy with the previous amendment that I've explained, except here, in the opening sentence of Article 35, the word "severe" is replaced by "severe". I really don't think it's just termological, but when it comes to qualifications and after conducting the procedure, it's very important whether something is qualified as difficult or difficult. If it is a graduation as an adjective, it doesn't matter if it's harder or difficult, tomorrow when we're measuring a punishment that's appropriate for something more difficult or difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64062	Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64063	Gentlemen, we propose to delete the word "incorrect" at point 9 because we believe that incorrect use of equipment is already covered by the provision of improper use. When an officer uses official equipment improperly, past the regulations, he automatically uses it incorrectly. I also believe that this provision should be deleted: "due to intent or rude negligence". How will it be clarified whether the equipment was misused with intent or without intent? If the line between error and intent can somehow be established, it is impossible to draw the line between rude negligence, as the bill states, and those other perhaps slight negligence. The essence of the legal provision must be whether or not a police officer has committed a violation of his official duty. I am taking this opportunity to appeal once again to extend police powers in the fight against criminals because I believe that existing legal solutions are too protective of a criminal and too little police. It was once an exaggerating task for police officers to detect the perpetrator, the perpetrator of a crime, and now it is the chief concern for police officers not to make any mistake in working on a case, not to harm human rights, the dignity of a criminal or a murderer. The next thing I know, I'm joining these SRS lawmakers' appeals to improve the material position of the police, but I've already said that a cop with a salary of 35,000 dinars a month can't handle criminals, drug dealers who receive 35,000 euros a month. We've heard here that the police were a free service of the National Bank and that they didn't charge for their work on the issue of passports. I think it's a mistake. Three million passports per euro, it is three million euros and the governor of the National Bank has a salary of 6500 euros. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64064	National MP Momir Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 38, the words "can decide" are replaced by the words "it is due". We believe that the legislator must take care of the security risk and create the possibility of breaching the security of classified information. The promoter replied to me – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that there should be no public exclusion duty to protect the moral integrity of the participants in the process, and the body that conducts the disciplinary procedure in each particular case certainly assesses the reasons for disfellowshipping the public. For example, you come from the EU Brammertz, Kar Bip, or you come from an English, German embassy, then what are you doing? You obey their orders, and we suggest that none of these laws can affect subjectively, as the word "is" is incorporated into the law, so is the legal obligation, but it seems to me that you are only making reforms, because everything you do is subordinated to your wish, and your wishes are subservient and your laws are subjective, and your EU bosses are falling apart and it has begun to rot, and that decay has reached us as well. It takes time for it to fall apart whether it will be one or two years from now, the smell of decay has already reached Serbia, the EU has fallen apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64066	It would be good if international influences did not affect your will to respect or violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a first-degree procedure which, under the authority of the Minister, Director or Chief of Staff of the Police Station, actually carries out an authorised person who, according to the position of the 3rd member, must be a graduate lawyer with five years of working experience. Since matter refers to the disciplinary procedure of an official, in fact a police officer, we from the SRS have asked that one part of this member who refers to the decision-making process itself be deleted by intervention. So our idea is to carry out a disciplinary procedure based on authority, but not to have the person carrying out the procedure bring a solution. Our idea is to be someone who will propose a measure of disciplinary action to whoever authorized him to carry it out. So, in order to avoid confusion, we will have to first determine the responsibility of certain persons, as the minister himself spoke about it, to first determine whether Serbia's supreme commander is the official, police or state person and under which law he falls. Otherwise, we would have to, Mr. Todorovic, give you untied hands to carry out a disciplinary procedure against the commander-in-chief with the words he has spoken today and to make a personal decision, not a disciplinaryly responsible person who has five years of employment in this profession. The Commander-in-chief has made a mistake and is subject to disciplinary action. He called on Serbs to withdraw from the barricades and to answer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64068	The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64069	Article 39 speaks of your inconsistency as a promoter, and speaks of our consistency as an applicant for the amendment. All the time, we've been making a difference between police officers and other officers. When we do not want to give these others, who are not exposed to dangers, equal rights: fees, benefits, benefits, benefits, benefits, etc., we to this member of the law, where we are talking about conducting a disciplinary procedure, we ask that these people officers, who are not police, are not treated the same again. As they can't have extras on their salary, so they can't even have their responsibility to be decided by police officers, police directors or authorized police officers, because the law on the authorities of the state administration and on civil servants is currently talking about who can and in what procedure to conduct the disciplinary procedure. It's not enough for you to just say in refusal: "the specificity of the organisation and functioning of the MUP and the work in the MUP is all covered". He can't cover everything. For example, you state by attitude 3 that the conduct of the procedure can be authorized by a police officer who has a degree in law. I'm sure you know that Article 84 is Section 3. The State Administration Act for such a procedure is prescribed, meaning, for the administrative procedure, that only a civil servant who has acquired a second-degree higher education, or completed master of academic studies can do so. Why would your employee be subject to someone's judgment, who doesn't have that kind of education, that knowledge of matter, because it can either be brought into an unfavourable position, or, on the other hand, it can be wronged as innocent in some disciplinary procedure and actually be guilty. So it's not in accordance with the law to prescribe that the affairs of a disciplinary procedure can be performed by a person who has a degree in law, because under the applicable law it is obtained after completed studies of four years. It is not in the workings that the Director of Police always initiates the procedure and that the police officer he is in charge of the procedure and decides on disciplinary responsibility for both police officers and those who are not. It's just that I don't think this provision, which extends the provisions to the police and to the other officers of the MUP, is good, there's no reasonable reason for it. I really don't think that the way this process is lined up with the police work of the ministry by some other professionals can be of any use to us. You're always afraid of that, you've got a self-censorship, who's in charge of deciding your fate, and through a disciplinary procedure that can, at some point, end up being fired, suspended or whatever. These aren't irrelevant things. I think that the distinction of one and the other categories we have done independently, objectively, maybe because we are out of the system, but you, too, by the observations of us, were able to consider it a little bit, not just to explain the refusal by the specificity of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64070	This used the time available to the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. On Article 41, Natasa Jovanovic, the MP who wants a word, submitted to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64071	Mr. Todorovic, it is totally unacceptable for such a member to remain in the law, because, given the fact that I have been on the Defence and Security Committee for eight years now, you are witnessing the fact that we are most talking about official secrecy and necessity to serve security. According to this proposal, citizens must know that, and employees of the MUP who come under the influence of the disciplinary commission, you predict that one person can be one who is not employed by the MUP. I ask you, will it be Natasha Kandic, Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, Hashim Thaci? I don't know what can come to your mind - if the face isn't employed by the M.O.P. Our security services are also under the attack and impact of foreign intelligence services, various liaison officers, which you also know well, when we have reports, especially security agencies, and it is amazing that you are putting into danger the implementation of a comprehensive and detailed procedure, such as a disciplinary procedure for overruling powers and other situations that may occur within the framework of the MUP in contact with a person on the side. It is amazing, Mr. Todorovic, that you agree to such blackmails and ultimatums, since however Mr. Dacic and your ministry are in this situation, which is more than extraordinary for Serbia, because of the position of our countrymen at the barricades and their existence, you are trying to maintain yourself in the framework of the declared resolutions adopted here and state policies, unlike Tadic, who went into open treason today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64072	It's been two minutes. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself, so the amendment is under review. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64073	Article 42 defines the fees for working in committees to be determined in the disciplinary procedure, first-degree and second-degree, the responsibilities of the staff in this ministry and the fees to be received for that engagement. We believe that there should be an act to determine this, because as the law says, it is not clear at all first, to whom this fee will be paid and what it means to engage in the conduct and decision of this procedure. If the Director of the Police is the one who runs, he wants to be paid, so he will be interested in running as many procedures as possible, or the official, who he has the authority to conduct the procedure, but also before it is one or another official who has a surety to pay again as possible with the responsibilities and obligations he has, the question arises why would employees who receive already paid for what they are doing receive a special fee for engaging in the conduct of these proceedings? The practice of setting up commissions, advices, and that as paid, not in business, sessions, which was introduced in 2004, from the Election Commission and beyond, where you have monthly fees, is a practice that is completely the opposite of stories outside the ministry and this procedure, that we should hire people. Here is the opposite of saving and that possibility, and I wonder how a man in one working time will be able to do the jobs that are described to him, to accept the supplements and everything else, and to receive a special fee for participating in these procedures?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64074	The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MPs together Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic and MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken. National MP Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64075	I'm staying with the proposed amendment, and just now, when it was said, Mrs. Komic, about that member, I was saying that the law says, in one part, in the chapter, "The District Court is being deleted," and in Article 56 of the current law remains. Now it's a pain in the ass that's gonna solve the complaints, whether County, Higher or Cassation. How come with you, gentlemen of the ministry, Mr. Maric, class can't, class can't? How are you going to solve this question now, this void? Why didn't you comply with this law on courts? The police are working and making solutions, solving the jurisdictional Supreme Court. How are you going to solve this? Your colleagues who will apply the law how will they apply it? You can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. You're inconsistencies and because you said in article 47 that it's being applied the next day, six years is the law in force and the state hasn't failed. We propose an amendment in accordance with the Constitution, that it should be applied within eight days. Do you read the Constitution, do you read the system laws of other bodies that propose and adopt? In six years, the state hasn't failed, and it hasn't affected your safety, and it's affecting you one day. You are not consistent in application, you were not consistent in proposing a valid law. A new law should be made, but it should be settled properly, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why aren't you gentlemen, before this House the Code of Criminal Procedure, why didn't you say one word that you were coordinating police powers that the police would apply to the Code of Criminal Procedure? Why didn't you predict the court police, as is predicted by France, Germany, England and other countries? When will you bring in the new law in six months or three months?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64076	I think MPs think you're mad at me for no reason, since you're starting to start by staying on the amendment. Your amendment has been accepted. You can only withdraw the amendment and, in that case, if the National Assembly declares that, since the amendment in the same text was submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Srdjan Spasojevic, it is also part of the text of the law to which it was filed. Please, I listen very carefully to you, and when I remind you not to talk about the agenda, I'm doing it with good reasons, no matter what you're gonna be mad at me. People often don't listen to themselves, especially others. I listen very carefully to everything others say. I ask the People's MP Veric Radet not to throw it away, because I can explain what the MP is in his two-minute conceit of the amendments he will not give up, and who has been accepted, spoke, and what is at the edge of respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, such as outside the bounds of respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you throw and that you behave inappropriately in relation to my obligation to assist the MP in the work, as I am helping the MP Peter Jojic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 44th amendment. Please don't throw it away. I understand your emotions, but keep them to yourself. And National MP Natasa Jovanovic, who insists that I must respect her knowledge. When knowledge is obvious then it deserves respect. No respect is required for knowledge, respect is deserved. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. We can either agree to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure or, unfortunately, I apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I do not like to apply. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 44th amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64077	I think one of the most important amendments tabled by the Prosperity Group, Serbia, is this one. He is talking about forced retirement, or dismissal by law and against the will of employees who have not completed their working life, and this amendment is about the inconsistencies of the Government and the Proposer. On the other hand, the fact that you called the PIO Fund, which was a particularly legal person, which was then explained that you were an authority in the MUP that decided when someone reached retirement conditions, I will not comment on it. But if the Minister of the Interior has said in his time that he has a problem when professionals at the age of 50 who need to be allowed to continue to work must retire and be replaced by some who do not have such experience, you are now proposing to be fired by law enforcement. It's not inconsistencies, it's really very unusual. On the other hand, the government has repeatedly pointed out a problem with the unsustainability of the pension system where the number of those who work almost equalised with the number of pensioners and now I don't understand how this, in an area that is very sensitive, is sending people who are able to retire fully under the law, and we're talking about the unsustainability of the pension system. Every day we see police officers who are retired and whose pension is not enough to work as private security for some poor salaries, most of them support children, families, it is really necessary, but I am convinced that it would be much more appropriate to stay in the service, and why not be as pensioners such good, quality and engaged, if pensioners can be assistant ministers, ambassadors or any other. I'll bet you a quality police officer, who...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64078	The same text was submitted to the 47th amendment by MP Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64079	Here I will explain this last amendment to the entry into force of this law where the next day of entry into force is replaced by the word "eight." I'll be very brief and it'll be very illustrative for everyone. You're asking for the law to come into force the next day, it's very urgent. The Director of Police has been in your position for a little while, and this law is urgent. If the status of police director is openly and publicly violated, what about the deployment, the quality of equipment, the procurement and everything else in the police, and we've come to an urgent conclusion and seven days will mean a lot. I dared to point out what people were just whispering about. Is this going to be a state where you can publicly say that somewhere in violation of the law by being held in a state of VD, someone else is forced to retire even though he's capable, quality and professional, and the law needs to come into force tomorrow. I hope for my safety this won't be dangerous and I can't be disturbed by all the noises all the time that's been trying to degrade a professional debate here, but please, seven days won't change anything. Consider once again how many solutions you have adopted here are of quality, and until the day of discussion, take advantage of all the possibilities to sort things out in a way that your good intentions show up in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-29-0.u64080	This ended the search after the last amendment submitted. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes our work in full today, and we continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., by searching in particular for amendments, i.e. amendments to agenda item 4 and 5, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, i.e. by discussing amendments submitted to these two laws. It'll be a full subject of our work tomorrow when we're done with the last amendment to item 5 of the agenda, we'll finish work for tomorrow and arrange for Thursday's December 1st. Thank you to all the participants in the session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 72 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs who place their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so in order to determine by electronic system whether 84 MPs are present in the electronic system, how many business provisions are required for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it has been determined that it has inserted its identification cards into the hall of 86 MPs and that another number of MPs is present in the hall, so that there are conditions necessary for the session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Esad Djudjevic, Vitomir Mihajlovic and Zoran Nikolic. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for a search in details of the fourth and fifth agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health, attends: Miro Čavaluga, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Zorica Pavlovic and Dubravka Saranovic, Assistant Minister of Health, Daniela Rajković, Head of the Public Services Group at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Dejan Ristic, adviser at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We continue to work and move on to the Search in the details of the 4th item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia before I open the Search in particulars, i.e. the debate on amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that the usual break of one hour will be set at 11.30 p.m. and will last until 12:30 p.m. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Meho Omerović, Esad Djudžević, Barjam Omeragić, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Žutić, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Đurić, as well as amendments to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
