ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65738	Thank you, President. As the end of the year approaches and the mandate of local self-government, apparently some things are speeding up. I have several examples from Negotin municipality and these are all questions for ministers in the context of DS circumstances. The first question is for Minister Dulic and Minister Markovic. Also this summer, the Municipality of Negotin decided to make a spatial plan, i.e. a spatial plan was made saying that one location in the municipality of Negotin, the site of Popadi was designated for a wind park or Serbian windmills produced by electricity. However, as we approach, the mandates are rising, and events are now speeding up, on November 23rd, it concludes that two additional locations are set for the wind park and empowering the president of the municipality to conclude a contract with investors, without a public call, without a clear procedure, what it was like for that one location. Immediately lightning, contracts with two companies were concluded in early December. One of these companies is from Novi Sad with a million dinar loss in 2010 and no employee. The other from Negotina and has a loss of three million dinars, there's only one employee, no public call, no nothing. On 6 December, the Commission for Plans agrees that these three decisions, and only one is essentially in the process of taking the assembly out of flight, and it is interesting to decide that the development of plans is entrusted to investors which is a violation of the Law on Planning and Construction. In principle, we do not say that there is corruption, but why there is no respect for procedures, laws, we simply ask that also Minister Dulic and Minister Markovic. You know, she can do anything even in accordance with the law, and someone likes to break the law, somehow it looks like little kids, who prefer fruit from other people's trees rather than what their parents bring them. But there's no need to do this this way at all in Negotin. It's not one example from Negotin County. For example, the LDP, i.e. the committee group, requested under the Law on Free Access to Information, the documentation for a public competition for a single location in the municipality of Cubra Municipality, is about 60 hectares of an excellent location for vineyards, Bukovska Zlatno Brdo is called this location. And look at the wonders, it turns out that one of the companies didn't file the paperwork in time, didn't pay the deposit. And look at the wonders, this particular company has been leased these 60 acres. It may be a coincidence that the owner of the company's husband is the head of the municipal administration, it may be a coincidence, but we think the Minister of Agriculture could check these allegations when they don't want the municipal authorities to respond on these issues, to see that the firm that didn't send the documentation to the public tender for the lease of those hectares, which she didn't pay in time, just got. Again, we're not saying that there's corruption, we're just saying that these things shouldn't happen. In the Municipality of Negotin, such things often happen and we simply seek in this case, for this location and for the lease of this land to react to the Ministry of Agriculture because it is its jurisdiction. Minister Markovic too would have to deal with the Municipality of Negotin a little bit, because after all, everything is going on there. Here, let's say we make a larger municipal decision on granting consent to increase the price of heating in Negotin. In Negotina the most expensive heating is paid, but the decision is retroactive is valid backwards. You know that neither by the Constitution nor by the law. The administrative inspection there has obviously not been since the introduction of provisional measures. The decision of organisations and municipal administrations shall not be implemented because systematisation has not been made. I ask Minister Markovic to pay attention to the Municipality of Negotin, regardless of being there in the power of DS and SPS, the legality must be respected in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65739	I give my word to the MP Vladimir Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65740	Madam President, honourable MPs, I think, since I come from Kosovo and I am a member of the DSS and I are personally convinced that there are no more questions for this country and for this government than for the preservation of the territorial sovereignty and integrity of this country. Since the sovereignty and integrity of this country is at stake, because KIM is being kidnapped, an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and this government is being deafened and literally assisted, we and other opposition parties and individual parties from the ruling coalition are looking for a plenary session to discuss the emerging situation because much has changed on the ground. There has been a change in mood and thinking in this assembly, so some believe that the majority has a mandate for the policy they are leading, others feel that there is no such thing as unannounced session, where it would be debated in KIM, is that because this National Assembly does not have a majority. The agreements and agreements reached in Brussels are deeply against the interests of Serbs in KIM and citizens of this republic where we live because we do not have another. The government has recognised an independent Kosovo, with all the elements it has accepted in Brussels, under pressure from the EU, and with the intention of obtaining candidacy. The government was not one percent committed to the preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia as it was committed to the empty EU membership bid. That's what today's situation says, where new conditions are imposed. Kosovo is no longer a topic because you gentlemen are finished with Kosovo. You have recognised Kosovo's independence. Now you are asked, after everything that comes from Brussels afterwards, to surrender independent Kosovo. That's what you're looking for now. Independence is yours to admit, whether you want to admit it or not. The people and Serbs living in KIM are deeply opposed to the agreement. Because I'm going to point out one more time that he's deeply damaged. It is to implement the Ahtisaari plan in KiM that rejected both the SB and this assembly. Since this assembly has passed 200-300 laws regarding the EU and I do not know how many sessions it has held on the subject, it is a shame if it is a priority for KIM to hold only two sessions for such a burning issue in four years. You must wear that on your soul, Madam President of the National Assembly. Because, especially now, when there is something to discuss, given the emerging situation, I am asking you as presidents of the National Assembly – do you have any intention of handing over Kosovo to hold one Assembly of the People's Republic of Serbia, where all of us who have been looking for it for three or four months would have discussed it and decided whether this authority has a mandate for what it does with KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65741	I propose the agenda of the session at the time of regular sessions after the consultations I have at my college, and there are business opportunities to schedule a session, with each topic and every idea. On the other hand, the National Assembly is not a debate club. We should bring in documents when there are reasons, i.e. legal acts, and since we are entering tomorrow for an extraordinary session, 84 MPs can submit a proposal for the agenda for any session. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65742	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I feel an obligation, except that I have the right as a national MP to ask a question, I feel a commitment, and the reason for asking a parliamentary question is two different informations that have appeared in the media these days, but which our officials do not declare or, to be more precise, refuse to plead. It's about the South Stream project. Two days ago, Gazprom chief Lexi Miller said the fate of the South Stream depends on a deal with Ukraine and announced the possibility of giving up the construction of the South Stream pipeline. Yesterday, however, Deputy Director Aleksandar Medvedev said that Gazprom is not planning to give up building South Stream. Do we have the right and the obligation to ask what's going on with the construction of the South Stream and how long has it been? As I said at the beginning, it is symptomatic that none of the officials involved in signing the contract and in the realisation of this project have announced the team on the occasion, i.e. the press issues have refused to comment. In addition to some statements that such a thing would not be realistic or that such a thing would not be possible, we no longer know. So my question is primarily addressed to the prime minister who can forward the issue to the resolution ministers, who, I'm convinced, know more than what I've brought out and what both the boss and the deputy director of Gazprom have said. I still have to note that giving up on building South Stream for Serbia would have major and harmful consequences and that would mean losing half a billion euros a year from transit to that gas. It would be a confirmation that our only oil company has been given in vain, that we have given it without any guarantee that the South Stream pipeline will be built. It has been nearly three years since the government decided in December 2008 to conclude an oil and gas agreement without guaranteeing that the South Stream will ever be built. Then there was our proposal to sell immediately 25% of NIS and to sell 26% of the moment when a South Stream contract was concluded. At the session, however, most government members insisted that NIS be sold to Gazprom without any guarantees and only one binding NIS sales contract was signed. So it's been three years and we don't know until today what the fate of the South Stream is and whether it's going to be built or not. My second question is related to this, relating to NIS or now it is no longer NIS, which is that this company made a profit of around 270m euros in the first nine months of this year. Since the state of Serbia still has a 49% stake in ownership and since the owner is almost 30% of the shares, my question is did NIS pay a share of what it is obliged to do in the republican budget? From this draft budget, we do not see it, and given the difficulties we face with the charge, given that the minus in the cash register is 150 billion dinars, it is logical that no dinar, no euro, or anything that belongs to us as a state. If we gave up 51% of the property, then it's not logical to give up and profit that belongs to us based on 49% of the ownership and, as I said, about 30% of the shares. So these are two related questions. Please provide me with an answer within the legal and business deadline, otherwise the public will be still busy with whether the state of Serbia is losing something on a daily basis and whether the construction of the South Stream is true or just fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65743	Thank you. The National MP Marina Toman has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65744	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, I would like to refer the parliamentary question to the Minister of Environment, Oliver Dulic, and the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environment. I want to ask them a question which criteria were managed when they gave consent and issued permits to build a factory for the processing of dangerous industrial waste "Juneisk" in the municipality of Kovacica, where there is no industrial waste, which is known as an area which deals mainly with agriculture, as a tourist site? For four years, residents of the Kovačica municipality, fearing environmental pollution and health threats, have been trying to prevent the construction of a factory for the processing of dangerous industrial waste "Juneisk" near their homes, on an area surrounded by arable parcels. Otherwise, they break the thresholds of many institutions in this country, appeal, write letters, but the authorities in this country have no hearing of their problems. Studies show that asbestos exposure is one of the causes of cancer. Electronic and electrical waste also falls into high-risk waste, containing mercury, lead, cadmium and beryllium, which, by evaporating into the air in the long term, leads to environmental pollution and cancer. Right in the industrial waste recycling centre with properties of hazardous substances on the surface of about 18,000 square metres, carcinogenic asbestos, high risk, electronic and electrical and dangerous liquid and pasta waste will be processed. It will be built in Kovacica in which there is, again, no industrial waste, which is positioned as a agricultural and tourist site. According to data from the Republic Geodetic Institute, the factory for the processing of hazardous and industrial waste "Juneis" will be built on a plot only 349 meters from the first residential buildings, 107 meters from the Nadel channel, from the Business-Recreative Centre "Relax" 595 meters and from the Agricultural Combined "PIK" Debeljač, only 1000 meters away. Tanks and trucks will bring waste from all over Serbia through which a primary school in Crepaja was built. To repeat, the main economic activity in the municipality of Kovačica is agriculture. Of the total income achieved, more than half was achieved in this activity. About 84% of the municipality of Kovačica is processed. The people of Kovacica have so far addressed all relevant institutions in this country, the ministry, the province's secretariat, wrote to President Boris Tadic, however, their appeals, their requests to give up construction of the factory were not answered. The authorities have sided with the investor in this case. They are not interested in the referendum that more than 7,000 citizens have pleaded against the factory, and only a hundred for the factory, and that every day more and more citizens are against the factory. The president of the municipality, who, meanwhile, resigned, personally urged citizens not to go to the referendum and called everything politics. Similar messages also come from the ministry, which claim they are not responsible for such a thing. Similar messages also come from the Regional Secretariat, which claim to have thought long before they decided to give a local permit to build one of these factories. No one in this state has anything to do with the factory, and the factory is about to start building. I ask the question to all relevant state institutions whether they will protect the interests of the citizens of Kovačica or the interest of the Juniska factory, whose director of the four-year struggle against this factory, will call their fight for health and environmental protection a policy. Show that you care about the interests of Serbian citizens and withdraw your location permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65745	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65746	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I have a question, namely asking for a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically from the Ministry of Defence and from the General Staff of the Serbian Army. In fact, we are witnessing these days of one event, in my opinion, very unkind and very symptomatic. In the heart of Serbia, in Novi Sad, in Serbia's Athens, some NGO or group of NGOs, I haven't informed myself who these people are, they have entered a military facility, specifically in a barracks called Archibald Rice. I have not noticed the reaction of either the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Defence or the Army of Serbia. The question arises what is happening in the first place to military facilities that are not under any control, whether the Serbian Army still has the military police sector, whether there is a guard service and whether anyone cares at all about military facilities that are not currently in use, probably because of the general state in the state and the general situation in the Serbian Army and the reduction in the number of Serb military members? We are also witnessing that many municipalities and cities that are interested in non-use military facilities have been forced to conclude multimillion-dollar contracts with the Army of Serbia to obtain facilities in the centre of cities I speak of, such as the town of Cačak, by decision of the assembly and mayor, to purchase an object that was once Dom JNA, followed by the House of the Army of Serbia, which is intended for the work and operation of some cultural institutions. So, on the one hand, we have, which is according to the legal regulations, that citizens or people through the congregations of cities and municipalities are forced to pay off huge funds, market assets, such a law, I cannot comment on that law because I believe that all military facilities have been built by citizens of this country and the people, and on the other hand we have a situation where an abandoned military barracks is involved by an NGO that I don't know who they are. Maybe it's some test for Vojvodina what's going to happen, I don't want to prejudge, I don't want to comment on those young people's needs, maybe they should really get some kind of space where they're going to do their activities, I really don't mind, I just have against the way it happens, in the opposite way. At the same time, as a citizen, as a former soldier, as a national MP, a member of the Security Committee is very concerned by the failure of either the defence ministry or the Serbian Army, more specifically the General Staff. I also had a case, that's what I want to report to the public, and all of you fellow MPs, that a few years ago I tried as a member of the Parliament to force a military sports facility in a city in which I live to be assigned to temporary use for a year of young football club selections, namely the Fighter Football Club, where that club would have paid all the communals over the course of one year, and I was told that the regulations were very strict and that the Ministry of Defense was unable to do so because of such regulations. Whether I liked it or not, I realized that such rules and laws were such and that this cannot be done regardless of the nobleness and importance of those children who would practice them. On the other hand, I'm going back to the bottom of this question. I am very concerned, and I believe that other fellow MPs share that concern, to the non-reaction of the state authorities, I would also ask that some citizens, any of them, see now the announcements of reactions made by some other parties that they would take up all the abandoned barracks in Serbia, to unreaction, to not inform citizens of what was happening here and what the Serbian Army has done to protect the facilities that are in its possession and which the people, i.e. the citizens of Serbia, have entrusted with it, and to say and to build their long-standing work. Therefore, because of the importance of this question, I expect that this question be answered immediately and urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65747	Time. Thank you. Since none of the presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have reported any more, let's move on to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that in addition to the representative of the promoter for today's work, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, I have called for the members to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jagoda Jelic, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petkovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Complementars of the Criminal Procedure: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Petar Jožić, Milovanovic, Boris Pošalić, Dejan Mirović, Mr. Radjan Mirović and Mr. Raderita Radović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee rejected the following amendment groups of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group, which is added in front of Article 1, which adds a new Article 1a, which adds Article 2a after Article 2a, which adds a new Article 2b, which adds a new Article 2v, which adds a new Article 2g and adds a new Article 2d. According to Article 163(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. It's in the process of making reports that you'll get, so you'll be able to get to know each other that way. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. First of all, she has the word Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65748	I'd like to thank my colleagues. It was really okay for you to give me your word first, given that you published it, said that for the first time it is not possible to intervene like this, and I'm going to explain to the citizens what seems a little complicated and horny. When the Government proposes to intervene with a certain member of the law, it means that in this exceptional case, as Mrs Malovic and the Ministry of Justice have agreed with you, that you can intervene only on not that member, but only on this text that is in the article, whether it essentially refers to some other part, to a broader part of the law, other than that member, you consider it impossible. And only what you said was in the member of that and the one you're changing can be the angle of our observation. Inadmissible. If we exceed the intervention measure in terms of improving the law, here you go, defend yourself with arguments. Don't defend yourself with technical reasons. I would like Mr Cvetkovic, who last night after the debate he followed awake, and as he concluded that some had defended their amendments so warmly that he had adopted some, said he had adopted an SNS amendment that only extended the range of penalties for those who did not pay taxes and had adopted the amendment on criminal measures because we convinced him that for one offence someone he paid could literally go into bankruptcy, and for someone it was one gross salary. But, Ms Malovic, as a representative of the Justice Ministry, even when we directly intervene on a member who is in the Law on Court Taxes, and since the debate is united, refuses amendments where we ask that court fees be released from those subject to violence and discrimination by the following reasoning – the amendment is not accepted because for legal and technical reasons it is inappropriate to accept, since in front of Article 1. The bill proposes adding a new stance, so it is unclear whether the new position proposed by the amendment is to be the new first position or the position of another member. Mrs. Malovic, a language game, a game of words cannot conceal the essence. So you don't want as a government to find yourself at the service of victims of violence and those who are subject to discrimination by freeing them from paying taxes and justifying them with legal-technical reasons, as you refused and saying that these amendments can't be the subject of voting. But it didn't bother the Prime Minister to adopt an amendment that the range of penalties for non-payment of taxes was adopted. What's he talking about? You can't hide the essence by form. I might stay to defend every amendment if I didn't have an obligation scheduled at 12.00 hours, which is not more important than this, but it's important, but at 12:00 today, there will be a conference of the DRI, which, as a citizen, has really left me without text, breath, and that I haven't really had a heart attack in proportion to the extent and extent of illegality that this government defends by legal-technical reasons in refusing amendments in this house, tells me how much it respects the form. Billions, billions, hectares, hundreds of apartments unrecorded, unsigned, I won't be exclusive to the DRI to destroy these, but it's inappropriate for you as the Department of Justice to submit all the amendments, you have two ways to refuse them. You say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Fantastic width of expression. You didn't want to accept a single amendment, not even one where we're warning you to allow someone to misrepresent themselves and to have a doctor's certificate permanently mentally ill, to kill someone, to be sentenced for 10 years of life, and to be released by those same doctors tomorrow and to commit a crime on his return. You allow legal and technical reasons to refuse an amendment that prevents someone from replacing 40 years of prison with several years of being in a hospital for mental patients. Let the citizens evaluate it and judge whether it's okay. You've come out here with an amendment to the law that you want the work of the staff working in the prosecution, courts and so forth, to be separated by their salaries being governed by the executive authority. You're not following the laws you've proposed here, you're not reading, and you're not telling the citizens that you're bringing the Supreme Council's reputation into question. He's the only one in charge of regulating the payout rules for these people. You leave them to the executive authority, to the government, to the self-will of those who today will be subject to this state audit report and respect for the law and legality, to decide their salaries as the salaries of other civil servants. It's as if the first and only important salary to that staff, not the quality and unity in the work of that body that needs to give us justice. Indeed, a worse day could not have happened for the discussion of the Ministry of Justice which came out with the rejection of all amendments submitted and the State Auditing Institution's report, which will be presented today. Many people have the ambition to be greater than gods and greater than kings. You know what's important? To be just people. Just as congratulating Christmas to those who celebrate it on December 25th said their church dignitary – man must be only human and cannot take the role of God. We don't do it anywhere else, we do it here where our job is, and you really don't want to be a minimum of the man when for legal and technical reasons you refuse to release the payment of a court fee, those who are victims of violence and discrimination. You refuse to hear an argument that staff in the Assembly cannot serve anyone, but should serve the President of the Assembly, vice presidents, whatever they are called, from whatever parties they come from. And here we are in two ranks, and vice presidents more important and less important and more important and less important, in the way that materials are delivered to them, how familiar they are with certain things, as far as their work is known, writes, reports, etc. That kind of inequality can be suffered by some other institution, but one who shares justice and one whose symbol is a bond on his face, who doesn't see, who doesn't need to see whom he judges, that's inadmissible. I'm just cut. You know what "resigned" means? When you have such a struggle and a desire and a passion to fight to help whoever rules, something helps to make it better. But when you see that arguments that don't give a elemental logic and someone who defends himself by reason that are of a technical nature and who defends himself by law, like you said a natural person doesn't have the property of a party, well, how is it gone? You've abolished it by bad law. Now we can't get all the laws in line with the bad law on public agencies that break up the tissue of this economy and defend everyone should be so bad. That's what you do in this law, explaining. All the rights lifted in the process, you are now taking to the level of axioma. What, the law can't change? What are we doing here every day? What do you propose to us every day, but to amend the law. What's the point of the law? That what is good, right, but reasonably correct and correct for the largest number of people, which allows justice to the largest number of people, is accepted here, voted, argued, and you defend yourself by saying, no, there is no party property in the process, and when there is, there is one as well as a public prosecutor, so it does not make it impossible for him to appeal. Lucky it's the end of the year. I'm not tired, but your way of explaining questions the meaning of the existence of the opposition in one of these parliamentary homes, where it is necessary to make the laws better. Also from your ministry came a request, where bribing citizens in elections, unreal promises, where we came today, is also bribing the Constitutional Court with the privilege of not doing what their job is. And that's where you turned down all the amendments nicely. You're going to vote and you're going to finish the job, and how far are we going to get with that approach? When will the people completely cease to believe that the law is a law that protects justice and order, so when you make it impossible for him to exercise his basic right, when you tell him that he has the right to complain only about the amount of expenses? Does everything in this country come down to money? You say it comes down. You won't release your fees, and you want to charge the fine. You always want money to be in the first plan when an authority needs to do a job, that is, when it refuses to do it, you are again correcting all the imbalances in what is called justice, justice, justice and justice and justice society. I think the path you're headed is very bad. The way you've considered everything that's been suggested in this House, it really doesn't contribute to someone qualified for the other side of the conversation, in any capacity – whether as a government, whether as a minister, whether as an opposition, whether as a man, whether as a fellow citizen. That's not a good way to go. I'm inclined to respect for the exceptions to that approach. They repeat their DS colleague's statement, which she said the other day -- it's not about our private relations and our personal matters, or anything else, that we're all here to do some important work for the citizens of Serbia, and we don't all understand it the same. Someone's doing it with jokes, someone's seriously considering it. It's a matter of choice and diversity. They say, "Let 1,000 flowers bloom." That's what it's always been. But we're all here to do something good. Why do you think you're invited to declare it good and when you do a man's wrong and you make it impossible for him to fight for his right and when you say you have to pay the tax first, the costs of the procedure, and then in a litigatory procedure that lasts infinitely long, you can get the damage, and if you're going to take the loan, are you going to sell something and pay the costs of the proceedings, this country doesn't care? Who is this country being financed from? Who's filling this budget? Who gives you an assessment as a representative of some political party in parliamentary democracy which is the achievement of civilization in representing the people? You're the same citizen. You think those citizens that are being tried, the ones that we represent and the others are from another planet? Or do you think what we're saying here is really what you represent is something that no one can hear? You think it'll go unpunished that nine laws come with the budget, so you can't tell the truth? For them, more murderous will be the truth they will hear today about the illegal use and conduct of the government. They'll understand why we're telling them that these laws that are being passed here are unfair. I won't defend any more amendments. With this exhibit of mine, I will say that the SNS will lose neither will nor desire to point to what you are doing. But the defense of legal-technical reasons is not good, especially when the reasons are that you take advertising campaigns, that you finance them past the jobs that some authorities need to do, that you promote people, that you award them professional knightship awards for someone who's even professional, you just prove that we've become a society that can't be praised by normal. Because whoever's doing his job right has a minimum of professionalism, he's getting the Knight of Professionals Award. When the Ministry of Health doesn't do its job, but someone who doesn't pay taxes, does the Health Ministry campaign, getting baby devices, equipping hospitals, it promotes. But this House needs to be humiliated so you don't see what legal proposals you're going out with and how you treat parliamentary amendments. Fortunately, there are also honorable exceptions among you as ministers who are willing to listen, say, accept and do something that is in the interest of the citizens. Fortunately, you are not the general rule of conduct of all ministers in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65749	Time. Thank you. I give my word to MP Vlatko Ratkovic, within the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65750	Thank you, Madam President. What I'm trying to say is that for me, at least this amount and mixture of pathetic and demagogy is fascinating to all possible topics of this session and beyond. First of all, it was not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at least Justice Minister Mrs. Malovic rejected the amendment of the parliamentary groups, Forward Serbia. I mean, this House is not a goat congregation. It's a National Assembly. The procedure must be followed. The procedure is the dimension of democracy, which is its essential dimension. So if there is no procedure, if it is not respected, then we cannot talk about either democracy or a legislative process that is democratic. There is also a procedure in the congregation of residents and in the advice of the local community, and it must be in the first place in the National Assembly. It seems that advances forget, at times consciously, unconsciously, deliberately or unwittingly. So, first of all, dear colleague, you need to know that we have two situations when discussing laws. So when a new law enters the procedure, let me put it this way, which regulates an area of social life, states, etc., then any MP can intervene with an amendment that gives a broader volume of content, normative-formal, extends the scope of changes to what is written in the bill most often submitted by the Government. When we talk about amendments and amendments to the law, about the allegations of the law, then neither Snezana Malovic, to say symbolically, that is, the government cannot submit an amendment to its draft law if it goes from the gauge of what was proposed in those amendments, so if it spreads the scope of these changes. Therefore, the amendments to your Prosperity Group have rejected Serbia, seven or eight amendments, will soon arrive, for that reason. So we can't go to that kind of change that pops out of the framework of what's proposed by law. How much do you think a certain area, legal, social, etc., should be regulated, complemented, you have the legitimate right to submit your proposal for amendments and amendments to a certain law. Once again, the procedure is a fundamental segment of democracy and legislative process, you should know, so is the House of Residents and the Council of the local community and in the municipality and the city, and firstly must be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65751	Right on line, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65752	Mr Ratkovic, with all due respect for the functions you have done in this assembly, I have been an MP since January 1993, I know the procedure well, and I will remind you that parliamentary democracy in Serbia does not begin from the moment we started here in a very unusual way to change procedures and conditions for the examination of the law. Convince someone that it is a good procedure, that on the day of the debate on the budget, past the announced agenda and one single point that really has to do with it, which is the Law on the Budgetary System, add the Traffic Safety Act, to fraud you enter the Law on the change of the tax procedure and administration, where the collection of taxes and income contributions you don't legally want to transfer to banks and how many more such examples, I won't talk about it. We all know how to abuse procedures. Explain to the press that democracy costs and how much it costs here a day, but I'll say something that hurts the most. Do not call this congregation a Cossack, for you are bringing into an awkward situation and goats who are commendable, but also this congregation and it cannot be mixed. But don't say this is pathetic. Every law you pass concerns a concrete life and a citizen of Serbia, the one we watch a commercial about being beaten, when you say - don't stare at injustice and don't pretend you don't hear it. When you won't release him here by paying a court fee, is that pathetic or real? I think the way you reacted, wanting to protect someone who's here from me, there's no need. I don't have any kind of personal acuity toward anyone individually. I attack principled phenomena. I'm even sorry that Mrs. Malovic, as someone who was a good student and who was an intelligent person, was put in a position to defend someone's principles, insolently defends here and should be red for anyone. I'm not going to defend her either, but you don't need to either. This is indefensible... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That's my last word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65753	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65754	Thank you, Madam President. In relation to this proposed member who introduces a novelty, which is contained in the current law, I don't think there was room for intervention here. On the other hand, I would like to point out that Serbia's legislative reform is actually carried out with largely dissociated forms of our criminal legislation that have been in place since ancient times, which has been perfected for decades and decades. Consider, from 2001 to today alone, ten times the Code of Criminal Procedure has been amended. In every stable, legally-organised state, one of the laws that we adopted here in 2000 or 2001 in Parliament, made as a codification, is a law that covered all areas concerning the criminal code. It's an example codification in Europe. This way, if every three months we need to bring a Lex specialis, and we already have a codified Code of Criminal Procedure and if we have in the provisions of Article 361 of the already foreseen costs of criminal proceedings to which they enter and costs relating to the costs of translators and interpreters. The government says it was done to allow parties to use their language and translator in the process. I don't think that fit here, there was no need. Therefore, the costs of the criminal proceedings, Article 261 of the list, as shown in paragraph 2. One to nine. Among other things, this law also provides for a double award to an expert and translator in the art and translation of certain content for the public prosecutor's office of special purposes and special jurisdiction. I don't think this is fair and that Serbia no longer needs these special courts, the special prosecutor's office to have, because they're not necessary. If that was necessary, we don't think it is, this emergency should be translated at the end once into a regular state, not every three months changing the law. This was no longer common in our country or in other countries. In addition, Mrs Malovic, when it comes to the costs of the criminal proceedings, would I ask you to answer me – how much does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Justice, owe on behalf of defence costs under official duty to lawyers? Secondly, is he considering this possibility, given that lawyers pay taxes and that many are in a situation where they have no more than what to pay, given the situation in which the Republic of Serbia and the economic power of our citizens find themselves, that they cannot pay those costs? Can you, and that's where the lawyers are, why don't you do the cost-teaming, the ones who made the judicial decisions, get, if what's been ordered by the lawyers, to do the beating through the tax administration that you owe to lawyers and lawyers to you, to conclude the settlement and thus execute the beating. There are huge costs, and there are great disfavor and complaints from lawyers and there are thoughts from the bar, that the bar attorneys and lawyers will refuse to represent more, that is, defend themselves by official duty, until the state and the government resolve the bag to pay those costs. Every favor is paid. Therefore, neither lawyers can be cut off, nor can they be treated in this way. Therefore, please consider this possibility to urgently resolve the problem of lawyers, and to reduce, if you can somehow, in that leather purse of Cvetkovic, take away some of those special services and services by contract, rewards and fees, to make a little peace between the citizens and others to whom the state has obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65755	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65756	In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure is cited, so I quote, in Article 262(1), the second sentence is added: "In the criminal proceedings, which are laid down by special law for the prosecution of special jurisdiction, the award of an expert, translator and interpreter can be determined up to a double amount of the reward provided for in the art, translation or interpretation in other criminal matters". The amendment I made in front of the SRS parliamentary group requires that this Article 2 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Why? Mrs. Malovic, the public prosecutor's office of special jurisdiction, is of course meant by the prosecutor's office for organised crime and the war crimes prosecutor's office, as opposed to the public prosecutor's office of regular courts, is being brought into an unequal position. We in the SRS don't think we need any special parts of the justice system at all. We believe that parts of the executive authority want to be abused and controlled by judicial systems, even in this particular judicial area. There lies a source of corruption, crime, politicisation of the court proceedings of certain people from the executive government, as well as certain people from the tycoon circles. We in the SRS believe that regular courts can conduct organised crime and war crimes proceedings. This does not require special prosecutions, judges, witches, translators, interpreters, as well as particularly high rewards for their work, especially in a double amount. With your solution, people in the judicial system are placed in an unequal position in giving meaning, wages, rewards, and possibly motivations to work, which can also question the objectivity of the trial and the decision-making process. When you have already provided for legal solutions to special parts of the judiciary with special competences, I believe that the unwarranted reward is particularly double or greater. Finally, the objective of the amendments I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is to provide conditions for the impartial conduct of the proceedings and independence of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65757	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65758	I'll be very brief. I am, of course, against the rejection of this amendment. I think the procedures conducted by these prosecutions are quite complex with the proposal proposed by the government and the ministry. It is not said that warlocks must be compensated in double amount, but that precisely because of the complexity and scope of the art, they can be given double the amount of compensation compared to those simpler items. I think this is also an opportunity to say that this particular prosecution and these special courts and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and organised crime have achieved quite a lot of good results, that especially the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime is still waiting for a lot of work. The fact is that we have indeed had major crimes on all sides in the process of Yugoslavia's collapse, that according to the law, the crime geneaze followed three levels of crime. First, we had the leaders of the psychopath, that we had direct perpetrators, and between them quiet and calm, often strong and educated, citizens who supported that kind of crime. The leaders of the prosecution were mainly accounted for or prosecuted, and this is the case with direct perpetrators, but I don't think those among them who supported the crime geneaze have yet to touch in a psychic sense all the drama that took place in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but also the fact that many judicial verdicts have shown a clear genealogy of crime. It seems to us that this is the most important task that awaits this society, that a normal sobering takes place completely and that we look forward to the future through respect for human rights, through the process of joining this country and through relations in which disputes will be resolved in a peaceful manner, not an armed way like before.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65759	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65760	As far as the amendments of counterpart Radovanovic are concerned, I think he is right and it is the view of the SRS that it is unacceptable and economically, i.e. financially illogically, to increase the amounts to double the amount for the awards provided for the art, translation and interpretation of those crimes conducted by the public prosecutor's office of special jurisdiction, as you have stated here. I don't think there's any excuse, because the work of art, the work of translation and the work of interpretation is one stereotype job. There is no difference in the complexity of the job, in the scope of the job, which could make it a double reward. What's the difference between the crime of rape and the work of interpreters, translators, artists and those acts you've qualified in the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office of special jurisdiction? It's almost nothing. That's the point. Now we're talking from a material aspect. From a financial point of view, you know very well that it is very difficult to plan the scope of these awards. It's hard to estimate how many of these cases will be over the year, so times some average fee for these services. Then finally, suma sumarum, that you in the ministry and ultimately in courts come up with some relevant information about some amount of money that you're going to plan for this. Now, that's why you're in practice having unmistakable obligations, and that's the millions of amounts you don't settle in the course of the financial year, but you're transferring it to next year. You don't plan on it that year, so from some extraordinary expenditures, etc. Then in accounting, you make a mess and you have a lot of problems. A colleague, Jojic, pointed to a lawyer's problems. That's similar. It's also a fee and you have huge problems, both with the ministry and with the MUP. For the financial year 2011, we asked for the initiative of the Bar Associations and Bar Associations to ensure that this compensation for lawyers, from 2008, 2009 and 2010, was paid in a single amount, given that the budget rebalance for that year was planned for a billion and some dinar payments, which was the item in the budget provided for by the MUP. But none of it was done. Today, the amount of some 100 million and some millions has grown to 200 and some million. The question is when and from which means it will be settled. So also in these, you know better this data because you've got some kind of dubious examinations, and we're getting information from information funds, from certain professional associations, which are appealing to the state to settle it. Otherwise, there is no interest, by those who do these services, to continue to do so, since they pay VAT, that they are in a system of certain obligations to settle their earnings, wages, compensation to workers, etc. This in general creates a confusing situation that later is very difficult to get out of. If it were the most serious crimes, it's okay, but it's symptomatic that we don't have the elements right now, we don't even have financial frameworks to reconcile the increased obligations and, on the other hand, we're asking the question of legal character -- do we have the right to discriminate on service providers in this way? If for about the same character of one crime we have one fee, for the other we have another, then we bring into the position of discriminatory position, in fact, the same structure of obligations done, so we pay one in one way, and we pay the other in another way, which will certainly create one confusion. We have two types, two characteristics of payment which, in any case, represents one kind of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65761	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65762	You see, there's nothing really happening here. This is just one novelty that can only confuse the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Again, we have these specialised courts, special prosecutions, special powers that are in force on the day of this law's entry into force, will be completed under the provisions of the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Official Journal, and now, watch out, in this article you have more than 10 laws that have been passed, amended and completed. I think this is really unnecessary and it should have brought all of this to a regular state, because there is no other place than for us to go back to where our legislation is, where our tradition is and where our customs are and in this way the authority of our own right should be preserved, and not because then we invent various prosecutions, special courts. We're against such institutions. Let's put the judiciary back where it was, because there will be citizens and judges and parties in the process far, far easier because, as you know, this reform of the judiciary is a lot of cracks. She's caused a lot of trouble to the citizens. Take only the organization of the courts and the network of courts, and imagine that foresteer as a witness from Golia should come to Požeg for court because the foresters filed criminal charges for stealing wood and cutting down forests in Golia. The forester went from Golia and came to Pozeg, and when he came to Pozeg for court, and when the second came back in his absence 80 to 100 kilometers away, he cut down the second part of the forest. Second, 150 kilometers later, I'm going to talk about a network of courts where unnecessary costs are being incurred, judges travel, witnesses travel, defendants travel. It's all very, very expensive. It's supposed to go back to where it was. It's far more efficient, more cellular than this condition as it is. That's why I think this reform of the judiciary, there's no need for me to criticize it, it didn't bring fruit and all this innovation and all this, to say predictions and planning don't give any better results than it was. But that is also indicated by the EU, and it is contrary to certain UN rules and resolutions. You know exactly what's been delivered to you, where you've been given these remarks. A large number of objections are still pending, 800 judges remain unselected or re-elected, and I'm not saying there were no cases where you had to intervene. It was supposed to be intervened somewhere. But the reelection procedure had to be respected under the Constitution, because there was no appeal for a decision. The High Council of the judiciary did not do so transparently, as planned. The judges pay, they don't work. The judges don't work, and they take wages. There are big problems and these experiments cost taxpayers, Mrs. Malovic, a lot. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65763	Two minutes and 15 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65764	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing to amend this criminal code to come into force on 15 January of next year, and we have submitted an amendment proposing that these amendments enter into force on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger, for the reason we believe there is no reasonable reason for the law not to enter into force within the time limit. It would probably be around January 10th, even before this date was predicted by the government. Otherwise, in the case of this law, there was a real little mess with dates. I remind you, the Code of Criminal Procedure, meaning, the basic law, was adopted on 26 September this year. It hasn't even been three months, and we on the agenda have a proposal to amend that law, a proposal that contains some fundamental changes to the law. On September 20th, the Code was decided to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger" and that its application would only begin on 15 January 2013, meaning, in a year and a half. We now have amendments to the law that will enter into force on 15 January next year. This, in practice, means that amendments to the bill will take effect exactly one year before the basic law begins. All this illogicality with government deadlines -- the proponent explains the need for a more effective fight against organised crime and the need to prosecute war crimes. We of the SRS are not against it, on the contrary, we support it. However, two things have been disputed for us. First, it is disputed that these war crimes and organised crime proceedings are being conducted in front of special courts, because the proceedings are being conducted by special prosecutors. We simply feel that this should be done in regular court proceedings. The second issue is that statistics show that the work, the case of the judiciary, the Serbian judiciary, are mainly crimes committed by Serbs, and to a large extent crimes committed against Serbs. I'm going to list some very important facts that are absolutely undeniable. So, out of the total number of cases brought before war crimes courts, 61% are against Serbs. Practically, when you compare statistics, there is no significant difference in the conduct of the Serbian judiciary compared to the conduct of the Croatian judiciary, the Bosnian judiciary, the Slovenian judiciary and the judiciary of the NATO pact countries, which participated in war conflicts against the Serb people. In Croatia, 98% of war crimes cases, which are the subject of this law, are against members of the Serb people and only 2% against members of the Croatian people. In The Hague, which we all agree is practically NATO's pact, 73% of the proceedings are being conducted for crimes, actual or alleged crimes committed by members of the Serb people, and only 27% of the proceedings are being conducted against Croats and Muslims. Next, in the BiH court, 10% of war crimes proceedings are being conducted against Muslims, 20% are being fought against Croats, mainly for crimes committed against Muslims, and 70% of cases against members of the Serb people. In Slovenia, that percentage is somewhat more unfavourable, so 80% of war crimes cases are cases against Serbs before courts in KIM 80% of court proceedings are against members of the Serb people, and I have already told the NATO Pact. We also all agree and hope that the ruling parties agree, that for 20 years we have been practically attending one procedure, one campaign of Satanisation of the Serbian people. So far, the campaign has been led mainly through the media, but in recent years, the campaign has largely been moved to court. The aim of these processes is to prove that Serbs and Serbia, the state whose parliament we are the biggest culprits for causing wars in the former SFRY space, and that Serbs are the ones who committed the biggest and most serious crimes in those wars. I remind you that in these wars a total of 100, at least 110,000 people of all nations died in the former Yugoslavia's space about 500,000 were wounded, over half two million were expelled from their hearth. And now someone is trying to put a burden on these terrible crimes mainly on the back of the Serbian people through judicial proceedings and we believe that by adopting such laws and such a case law, you are helping someone's intentions. If in the judiciary of Croatia, in the justice of Slovenia, in the KIM judiciary, in the BiH judiciary, if most of the proceedings are conducted in The Hague tribunal against members of the Serb people and this is the same in the judicial judiciary of the Republic of Serbia, then one conclusion is that those who accuse Serbs as the greatest culprits of causing wars and as the greatest perpetrators of the most serious war crimes is right, and this, as you know, does not answer the truth. I remind you that the Serbs did not even start a war in Slovenia, there the war began with an attack on soldiers...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65765	People's MP, I must remind you that you are under the obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda, the amendment by which you have come to the floor, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet, reads - this law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of your publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Slovenia, so I ask you to bring your presentation and argument into contact with the amendment that you have submitted and received your word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65766	The amendment of this law concerns extending the authority of the prosecutor's office dealing with special crimes, meaning prosecutors who have special powers, those are responsibilities for organised crime and war crimes. Through my discussion, I seek to prove that the adoption of this law is unnecessary, that the existence of a public prosecutor's office dealing with the processing of war crimes is unnecessary, that this should be returned to the ordinary court procedure of regular prosecutions and regular courts, and as an argument, I state that through practice, through the application of these laws, it has been demonstrated that the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia is going to order those who are trying to prove that Serbia and the Serbian people are the most responsible for war crimes that took place in the area... (President: National MP, I now warn you that the subject of the agenda is a change and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that the amendment, so as not to read it again, on which you have called, you have the right, you have the time, you have the only obligation to respect a member who obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda. In any way you can link your argument and agenda theme. ) Mrs. Comic, since I said the essence of what I was about to say, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65767	Seven minutes has been used since the MPs' time. No matter how many amendments and additions to the Law have been made possible in particular by a broad argument, I ask the most beautiful Members of Parliament not to abuse the rights they have when they get the word, and I especially ask them not to abuse the argument by trying to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that it is understood that because of the importance of the subject, it will not cause and apply the provisions to which I am bound as chairman. Anyone else want a word? At this point, before the completion of the review of the Amendments and Supplements Act, the SRS parliamentary group has 58 minutes at its disposal as a parliamentary group, and the authorised representative, MP Petar Jojic, has nine minutes. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic used the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group, and all other parliamentary groups and presidents and authorised representatives have the time at their disposal. Anybody else answer for a word? If not, we've completed a search on all amendments and I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITY You have received amendments that were submitted to the bill by the MPs: Gordana Pop Lazić, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Buha, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pošurica, Miletko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made, and since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Article 1 Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 1 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and requested that this member be deleted relating to matters which constitute a judicial administration. The reason for that is that the solution that the Government is proposing here is that only a conflict solution with the attitude of the same member of 70, and the public is working, we have to say that this law has changed for the last three years for the sixth time. In your explanation, you are telling us that this is in line with the SAA, that is, the transitional trade agreement, but we are in no way clear as to why this timing was chosen for the adoption of this law, or for this proposal, since budgets are concerned. It is that the budget is also on the agenda at this session and that we have completed the debate on the budget, that tonight a vote is expected. But by order of things, this law should be passed before the budget is adopted because it concerns the expenditure that you are now sharing, or the powers to pay the staff, as you say the employees of the judiciary are in the jurisdiction of your ministry, and the salaries of judges in the division of the High Council of Justice. Now, why did you decide to do this? You didn't convince us in the principle debate. So we got nothing as tangible proof of why it's more rational when it's the funds that are back from one budget. For the sake of the public, we must say that, when it comes to the Constitutional Court, you've dealt with it quite differently. You've determined, you've given the judges of the Constitutional Court the opportunity to determine how much pay their associates will be. And now all those who work in the judiciary, except the judges, are in your jurisdiction. They can objectively fear whether there will be any pay, what you will decide, how you will decide, because the High Council of the judiciary may have some other interest, it is important that judges have a salary. Whether they'll have dactylographs, office clerks and everyone else, that's less significant now. So, you've shared employees in the judiciary, you probably have reasons for that, maybe because of the dissatisfaction of the employees of the judiciary and because of the influence on the unions and who knows why. Judges, therefore, in the Constitutional Court can determine how many salaries their associates will pay, and here, in a very different view of the judiciary, you have in mind the other courts. As far as I'm concerned, you need to control everything and you can see that need here. You seem to want to have complete control and influence how many people will be employed in the administration that serves the D.A.'s office, let's just say, what pay will be. But we don't know what you decide and what your parameters are for such a thing. Looking at the budget, especially that side of 444 or 688, and in particular 444, we've seen that you don't even know what they're called these transforimated courts, let alone something else. So you still define funds for some courts that no longer exist. I've got to say, that article in the '70s used to read. This 3rd position that you now want to change, in fact you change the 3rd and 4th positions, but in the 3rd position of the judicial administration, the High Council of the judiciary is – setting general guidelines for the internal regulation of courts. The conduct of personal papers of judges, judges and judges of staff, proposing part of the budget for the work of the courts for current expenditures, and now you say – other than expenditure on judicial staff and the distribution of these funds, overseeing the intentional use of budget funds and overseeing the financial and material business of courts. We, objectively suspect that you have the support of employees in the judiciary for something like this. That, in a way, you've stayed in debt to explain why this is done like this. Why do we have more categories of civil servants? He says you're referring here to the government's regulation, but it's a sublegal act that speaks of who the civil servants are. It shouldn't have had such an impact on the passing of a law like this. After all, what you haven't done before when you've had this last change, but now I'm in front of the budget. Did you predict it or did something happen in the meantime? We couldn't figure it out, not based on the reasoning that goes with this law. Our amendment I think is fine, but the epilogue of the adoption of amendments would be by withdrawing this law from the procedure. Practically, it makes no sense for the law to survive because they demand an amendment in Article 70 and Article 83, where they are talking about expenditures on judicial staff and there are all but judges. Do the judges only work in the courts, so the High Council of the Judiciary will only take care of the judges, let them be well, let us guard those whom you have chosen, and all those others without whom these judges cannot move with their tails, for you know who is doing judgments and who prepares everything and what is the work of the judges, what is the work of those associates. It's in your jurisdiction now. If you can do it all right, that's a question, but we think it'll be a second-row employee. We don't think judges should get an adequate position in society and be adequately rewarded. Many who are not in this society are adequately rewarded and rewarded, who do not have the social standing they deserve. This is because all institutions, including the judiciary, are constantly collapsing. Unfortunately, you haven't received a transitional rating from the EU that you've been scrambling so much and want to arrive as soon as possible. We see that they are looking through your fingers at what the reform of the judiciary is not done as they expected and what all the negative phenomena that are related to both the judiciary and many other areas, unfortunately, to that extent, I think, above all, to corruption, have grown to be more worrying. It's the way she works, and that's what she wants, after all, to achieve. They talk one thing and the other they do, but you don't want to see it well. Just now, let's say, a fellow MP insulted an ex-president harshly and said he was a psychopath. Now if I were to say that, let's say, Zoran Djindjic is the mafia prime minister, I would get a warning from Mrs. Comic, I suppose. Since she did not react, neither she nor Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who chaired the presidency of such a thing, is normal to undermine the reputation of this institution and the institution of the president of the Republic. So is the judiciary. Now let's say Tadic is a psychopath. How many times we've tried to say something about the President of the Republic, we can't, the hate speech, and there's a psychiatrist who won't say -- who are you, man, to tell someone she's a psychopath. That's how we operate in different arches. Today, you've been dazzled by something to separate this, and you haven't given any explanation to convince those people who work in the judiciary that it's more rational, that it's better this way for some objective reason, because the sources of income are all the same, as I can see, for both of them, and they have their own incomes. What's going on with your own income? Now, come on, because of these people who work in the judiciary, to explain to us what you really wanted to achieve here, because in the principle debate, you didn't almost refer to this law. You've united here a debate on eight laws, everyone has touched something that was of interest to him, but as much as I've tried to find anything and what would be rational in that, first of all, financial sense for the employees of the judiciary to do something like this, whether you want to reward them, whether you want to reduce what's coming to them or to keep them under control on a short leash. We MPs have been in a situation in a period of time that the finance minister is denying our salary if some law is not passed within a certain time limit. It happened in 2000. You can do the same if you want under this law to determine that judges receive fifth salary, and all the other employees are 25, so we'll see how we deal with them. If they're gonna strike, they won't strike. Maybe I didn't get this right, maybe we missed the whole subject, but you didn't explain anything to us on this matter. Why don't you explain to us, explain to the court employees what you wanted to accomplish with these? What we were about to tell you is that this law cannot be passed at the same time as the budget, especially it cannot be voted upon after the budget. He had to be in the debate before the budget, then put into the budget. He can't go wrong, but in this country, he can do anything. The budget could come before New Year's, although it was due in early November. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65769	Used 10 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65770	I think Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment was tabled for a reason and the argument she made was fully justified. We still have to point to the aspect of this article 70. I think it's unfortunate that everything you're doing right now because you've made a mistake, so now certain adjustments in the law that are not so urgent or necessary, especially not to be made by an emergency procedure and that by taking effect, the law and the Constitution have set an eight-day deadline, but you have done so. What's the point of the problem? The point of the problem is that you have defined the tax administration as the administration above the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice. Article 70 reads: "The judicial administration is concerned about the enforcement of laws and other regulations regarding the regulation and work of courts. "I guess that's the jurisdiction of the ministry and the High Council of the judiciary. In point 3 of the amendment, you define: "The affairs of the judicial administration of the High Council of the Judiciary", you further say what are the affairs, but the essence is that you raise the judiciary over the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is impossible, unacceptable and against the law. You in one internal authority exercise the jurisdiction of the High Council of the Judiciary. In Section 4, you say the same thing - the affairs of the judicial administration carried out by the ministry in charge. You can't do that. How can an internal authority have some responsibilities involving the ministry? I guess it's the ministry that has absolutely all the original rights, and the internal authorities within the ministry can have some of the powers that this central authority has, which is the Department of Justice. In article 70, you speak, among other things, and you separate the obligations of the High Council of the Judiciary and the Ministry of Justice and say, "For certain expenditures, the draft budget will be given by the High Council of the Judiciary and part will be given by the Ministry." That's wrong. It's the ministry that defines everything, as the highest and direct budget user. For us, this is unacceptable, and that is why we have requested the removal of this article and the proposal of Article 1 in the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65771	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65772	Madam Minister, Gordana Pop-Lazic has made this request with a truly full excuse and should be given an adequate explanation. In fact, when it comes to the equality of employees in the judicial administration, then, in any case, there is no need to make a difference. We shouldn't have two types, if we understand what you're proposing to pass in law. It should not make a difference because there is great dissatisfaction in senior and appeals courts compared to judges working at the Special Court of War Crimes and the Special Court for Organized Crime. It has long been tried in Serbia for both robbery and murder, but regular courts have done so and we have had in district courts and at the Supreme Court of Vojvodina and AP KIM and the Republic of Serbia quality judges, professional, educated, who have dealt with and how high-quality cases are found in them. What was observed after the introduction of a reform of the judiciary and the organisation of the regulation of the courts, is at risk of access to justice for citizens. Why? He travels a lot. If a man is to travel from India to Mitrovica, costs are being incurred, which is also affecting these costs provided for in this law for certain types of clerks and tenants. By yesterday, a citizen who has exercised all his rights in his city, for example in Novi Sad or Indjia, is now forced to travel tens and tens of kilometers to protect his right. That means he's forced to waste his time, but he's also engaged in considerable funds to get to a court that's sometimes 100 miles away. In doing so, there is a judicial building in his city that is now nowhere near to serve the purpose for which it was built. You have new courts in Serbia: Indjia, Kovin, but they are not courts anymore, they are units now and now from Kovin they travel to Pančevo, from India to Sremska Mitrovica. So that means getting justice is a matter of censorship. Because even in these difficult times, many won't even be able to have money for a bus ticket to go to court without talking about someone having to eat, so spend time and pay various other expenses by going from one city to another city. You have a case where citizens and parties from Panchev travel to Nis to be tried in the Trade Court. It's not very smart and it's not rational for our citizens. Because the parties travel, they think of both the prosecutor and the defendant in the litigation procedure, travels the defendant, travels his defender, travels witnesses, witches, and travels the translators that are here today. It's a lot of expenses. It seemed possible at first sight as a solution, but in practice it proved to be bad. For example, Vojvodina is one of the territories that is the oldest organised by the judiciary and has been recognised by the Vojvodina Bar. But what happened now? Now we're setting up a new organization, but it's going to hurt our fellow citizens. I think those solutions were hasty. So it's easy for citizens to access justice. Afterwards, there will be a speech on what happens in practice, as both judges and prosecutors and lawyers and parties place objections. It costs a lot. Costs are huge when the one from Chačka travels to Valjevo as a prosecutor or travels as a judge, to judge in Valjevo and vice versa. I think this should be kept in mind and things should go back to the original state, because it's much more rational and effective for the citizens. Secondly, access to justice is compromised by such an organisation and arrangement of a network of courts. So, first of all, the network of courts has become a problem in practice, and this issue needs to be resolved as soon as possible and seen how to proceed. You don't think it's gonna stay like this forever, that the judges are traveling from that side of the country to the other side? And why are the better judges to go from, say, Kragujevci to Novi Sad than those in Novi Sad or those in Subotica? Nothing's better. They're all judges with experience. As for certain irregularities, if they were observed by judges or prosecutors who were corrupt or engaged in crime or were unprofessional, unworthy, what should be done in these cases. In those cases, these individuals should be resolved. The reform was not carried out transparently. This means that the people who were cleared had no right to appeal, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that every citizen has the right to appeal to any decision by the state authority to decide on his or her right or obligation. It's a constitutional principle. And judges and prosecutors who haven't been re-elected, that's impossible. Why? Why is the Constitution being violated? That's not good. The Department of Justice led this activity. The Constitutional Court decided, once by a decision, to annul it but now returns to the High Council of the judiciary and the High Council of the Judiciary for years: firstly, cannot be in full composition; secondly, people who are not from the judiciary are elected to be members of the High Council; thirdly, judges who have not been re-elected have made statements with the High Council and the State Council of Prosecutors. The question is, why aren't they being delivered? People are still in suspense. And, Mrs. Malovic, big money is still being paid to those who haven't been elected since 2010. That budget costs a lot. These people, you know by law, are other workers in companies that work. He didn't pass, he was fired, he went to court and the court if he returned him, there was a court ruling, it was a law and in that case the court would resolve and in relation to his right whether it was legal or illegal, stopped working relationship and the other, if he illegally returns the decision or amends it, changes it, but requires that all the harmful consequences caused by one decision be removed. Mrs. Malovic, it is high time for this issue of the High Judicial Council to urgently make decisions and send these unselected judges or prosecutors. I think it is very important, because there are big remarks from the EU and the Commission. So, I don't think the network of courts is responding. Re-election, I said, there were cases, and in some cases you were right, when it was first and foremost for those who were with lawyers to pass a verdict in one day, and the man was waiting in litigation... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65773	People's MP, I ask, however, that, no matter how broad the argument may be, at least part of the argument that you present in connection with the amendment which is on the agenda of the search you have come up with and the amendment and addition of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65774	I think this amendment, submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, is acceptable and meaningful. First of all, he is effective and he points out to the promoter that there was one mistake here and that the error should be removed and improved by the text of the law, in fact leave the provisions that are in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65775	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65776	As a contribution to the argument for which this amendment should be accepted, I will specify only one example, one minute, from the Danube County from which I come. In the Great Plan, there is a new court building of more than two thousand square meters. After the suspension of the General Court and the General Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, their move is in Smederevo, we have a situation that half of the new court building in the Great Plana is empty, and on the other side the court in Smederevo, the General and More prosecution are literally buried with cases and judges and have no objective working conditions. Especially in a difficult position are the More and the General Prosecutor's Office, which literally work in the attic. If you want the D.A. and the Smederev Court to work for you, you have two options. One possibility is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65777	People's MP, please don't make me remind each of you of what's on the agenda. The amendment currently under review is Article 1. - It's wiped out. I really ask you to bring what you have as an argument in any way into connection with the amendment. If it is your intention to prove as a parliamentary group that you can talk about whatever you want, regardless of what the agenda theme is, that you can show that it is the right of MPs and that you do not suffer sanctions, then I must remind you that this is the last warning. In any way, in a word, bring half a sentence with the agenda theme. Do you want to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65778	If you'll allow me to complete my sentence. You interrupted me in half a sentence. I tried to explain why Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment should be accepted. You interrupted me in half a sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65779	People's MP, I am now in violation of the Rules of Procedure because I will not give you a warning measure, but I hope that this Assembly will adopt a code of conduct for the Members of Parliament and for all those MPs who consider it their own personal will on how they can behave above any rule. I'm terribly sorry that you think that's acceptable and possible. You don't want to use your time? No, I don't. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65780	Mrs. Komic, in any case, I think that in this previous part, you were really correct in relation to the conduct of the session, and perhaps now it was necessary to allow the MP to plead. There won't be any big damage, nor will he do anything that's against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65781	People's MP, have you called to talk about the amendment or the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Petar Jojic, from the scene: just what I said.) You just wanted to say it? No matter how much I know this will happen to you as an authorised representative, I am obliged to say that it is unacceptable for some MPs to think that they are not subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm bound to take care of it. Any MP who believes that he is allowed to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that he does not deserve the presidency's obligation to remind him of what is the obligation of each of us who takes the right to speak and additionally to behave rudely and rudely in the session of the National Assembly, so who thinks that taking care of the agenda is to allow some MPs to have rights, and some do not, I must inform you that they are not. Getting old on the agenda is that we're all equal. MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, we have managed here to recognize your idea in further protecting the failed reform of the judiciary. With the SRS population, you're trying to resupply the security of additional funds to act on such judicial decisions as would suit the regime. The Serbian Radical Party recognized it and we make the argument. Our idea is that this law on the addition of the Courts Law is not part of the legal system. We've got basic law, he's here, he's applying. I must remind you, when democracy struck, power began to be divided into legislative, executive and judicial. I speak in what order is common in people who do legal professions and sciences, but that doesn't mean in any case that judicial authority is less important than the previous two. When we know that it is very important and important, then judicial reform is not at all controversial. But the question is, how do we come to these reforms and what do we want to do? Here, Article 70, it is a basic member of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which is amended by the Law on Supplements, and it is changed so that it will not apply in this section for expenditure relating to judicial staff. There is no successful reform without quality and adequate treatment and judicial staff. You know it well, and you seem to me, here, and you're trying in one way to get exactly what I said at the beginning of my discussion to lead to the decisions that should be made. I'll use all the argument to prove it. Here are several examples of how justice reform has been done and why today we are in a position to talk here about amendments and additions, i.e. to discuss specifically the amendment submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic, who rightly submits this amendment, because our idea is that this law is not put into Serbia's legal system or legal traffic. You see one situation, you know it well, the High Judicial Council at one of its sessions discussed the applications of 399 candidates for the Administrative Court and the application of 632 candidates for the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. These reports were discussed at a session that lasted from 11.30 to 17.00 hours, resulting in the fact that even if the remaining agenda points are neglected at the session of the High Judicial Council to discuss each candidate who has applied in these two courts, the Administrative and Appeal Court in Belgrade, the High Council of the judiciary remains to discuss 20 seconds of each candidate. That's one dimension. Next, we had 813 applications for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. The session lasted from 12.00 hours to 18.30 hours. Also, every candidate has 20 seconds to argue. When we have these facts, then today we have to have on the agenda changes and additions to that law, so that we can do what we missed out on then, to sort of remove. You know it was the most objections and there was. Our influence and the work of the European Commission are not very interested. We know what one law means. One law tries to regulate a certain area, as Mrs Gordana Comic likes to say, to establish, not dispute, to establish a procedure that must and should be respected and to be known in advance to all those in whom they will apply, how and how they should behave. As early as 2010, many, many objections were made to what was attempted in judicial reform. Earlier in Serbia's judicial system, before judicial reform, there were 2,431 judges, with the Law on Amendments and Supplements, i.e. with the Law on Court Order, there are 1,831 judges. (President: National MP, with thanks for mentioning that the rules must be respected, I remind you not to talk about the agenda. The review in particular is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Article 1 of the proposal reads: "In the Law on the Regulation of Courts "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the number of "The Official Messenger", in Article 70(3) after the word "expension", the words "except expenditure on judicial staff", and the position 4 after the word "Budget", add the words "for expenditure on judicial staff, as well as the distribution of these funds by proposing part of the budget". The amendment that was submitted to this article reads "expect." It is my obligation to listen to you carefully, or at that time remind you that even the session of the High Council of the Judicial Council and the general political views on judicial reform, bring about the subject of the agenda, or to act without breaking the Rules of Procedure, by the obligation of a member of the Rules of Procedure to do what I have to do when the MP insists on not talking about the subject of the agenda, so please, on the subject of the agenda, it is now read and that there is no clarity as to what it is that we should be having a debate. ) Mrs. Malovic, I have no reason to ask you. I only use my business rights to explain to me and the MPs of the SRS how could this judicial and extrajudicial staff function in a certain way two years after the reforms of the judiciary were carried out? And how and why today must the amendments and additions of the law be approached and the judicial administration, done by the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the judiciary, must be governed in a completely different way today? Make your arguments. I have no reason, nor do I want to ask you, but I consider it your obligation to state the reasons, to explain to us, as well as to the applicants of the amendment, namely Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, to me and all the MPs of the SRS, but to the expert public. Of course, this is also of interest to the citizens of Serbia, who, after such a reform of the judiciary, have no benefit at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65783	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65784	Madam Minister, we would like first of all to face your views and it would be good for you to come forward and say a word to our remarks, not to Mrs Comic, she is still just chairing the session and we really don't want to confront her, or to be your spokeswoman, but that's why you came here and invited to come to parliament and tell us that we're wrong or to talk about things that aren't on the agenda. (President: Please do not deceive the public. There is no discussion of the conflict between the chairman and the MP. What happens during the session is that MPs: Dusan Maric, MP Sreto Peric and MP Petar Jojic think they can attend the sittings, take the floor and break the rules of the Rules of Procedure, without me applying Rules of Procedure and Articles 27 and 106 and reminding them that they are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. Please, and you, too, on the subject of the agenda. I will, Mrs. Comic. I really appreciate your principle. You've proven your point of view. (President: When I warn you that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda, you are obliged to listen to the chairman and that, if you want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which has directly done the Chairman, you are looking for a word and that you get word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, everything else implies that you intend to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that bind you in what way and how you can treat other MPs at the National Assembly session. ) Okay, it's gonna be like Mrs. Comic says, so it's got to be something that doesn't change. Our next amendment, Madam Minister, is a logical trail of this first amendment. A member of 83, who speaks on the proposal and implementation of budgets, tells the High Judicial Council that he proposes the scope and structure of the budgetary resources necessary for the current allocations, with a preliminary opinion from the Ministry of Justice and the distribution of these funds to courts. It's the current situation, what's going on so far. You are now retaining this solution and saying all this can be done by the High Councils of the judiciary, except that it proposes the scope and structure of the budget necessary for the current expenditure on judicial staff. I'm calling you again, feel free to take your word, press this red button and tell us why you're doing it. Not just us, but those who are employed in the judiciary, those who make up judicial staff. Because, in the explanation you provided us, none of it stands. You are saying that the Government does not accept the amendment because it is a matter of jurisdiction in relation to the proposal and distribution of budgets for judicial staff governed by Article 1. The bill, the one we dispute, because we are asking to maintain the existing situation, which has been completed by Article 70(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Court-order law. In addition, the position and salaries of civil servants and deputies are governed by laws and sublaws that uniformly regulate these issues for all civil servants and deputies. You've been working on something in the regulation. Now you want to transfer it to the law. Meanwhile, there's been a bill on civil servants and salaries, and the rest of it, I don't know. But we don't think that the courts need to solve it this way, but we think that the High Council of the Court is more competent to propose to the budget that these are the funds needed for these purposes. I don't know if we understand each other or if you think we're not worthy of any answer? We can do that. We can play deaf phones. We'll talk about how much time we have to talk. In this room, someone can say anything, and someone can't say anything. Someone may say that in the previous period we had the leaders of the psychopaths and that they did not get a warning, and someone here can make an argument in favor of the debate on this point of the agenda because Article 70 is just telling us about budgets and expenditures for the purpose of using budget funds and supervision of the financial and material business of the judiciary and tell you that in the Great Plan we are paying, and we have an empty building of the court and being interrupted or warned. I mean, there can be a lot of things here. That's why you've come as a bill promoter to say – yes, it makes sense, or it doesn't make sense, you're talking nonsense, it's not like that. Or we'll use the building for something else. Or, this has to be this way about it and that, because that's how we're going to save, I don't know how much money. Tell us something. Don't just look at us palely and drink your cappuccino without us talking to ourselves here. That's why we didn't come, and that's why we couldn't stand the amendments. Give us some valid document and convince us that we're talking nonsense. Because it's possible that we're talking nonsense. Take the word and tell us – that's why and that's why, in fact, we have to cause such and such an effect, we have to save so much money, it's more rational for that and for that reason. The laws only need to be passed for that reason, not because someone wanted to change something or take some responsibility from it and take it away from it. When it comes to the budget, especially when it comes to the deficit budget, with this kind of deficit, so I guess it's important to us what kind of decision we make and where money is spent, where we can save, who we can reward, from taking what we give, because it's more socially significant. We had so many budget remarks, none of it went through. What a year it will be, all of us will see and feel together. Well, we're already feeling, here's the court fee, now the excises, now there's going to be a lot of things. They've got to find that money somewhere. Now there's going to be borrowings, and we're going to feel it all by our own standards. We are very interested in this topic, not only as Members of the people, but also in the citizens of Serbia. They can't just throw their money away. They're not the only ones who decide their money. No one brought that money into the budget from their grandmother and put it there in some joint register. It's just that every day through those court fees that they used to be, they stick together, now they're not pretty, they're getting paid, because you can't print so much, obviously, or it's a better way, I don't even know, it doesn't matter, everything's modernized, but it's worse and worse and the processes are taking longer and longer and it's harder for us to judge because I don't have any money to sue, so I tell you. People only resorted to help, who's stronger, so they're pulling guns out there, and I don't know the bothers either, because they don't want to be tried, because they don't have the money to pay for the bus to go to court, let alone something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65785	Six minutes used by the MP's group. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65786	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try in my answer to explain to you some of the questions that you raised at today's session, where we are discussing amendments to this set of judicial laws that represent, in a way, an integral part of the 2012 Budget Act and, of course, the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm not afraid to talk. I think that all these years where I have the responsibility to perform the duty of the minister of justice I have been very actively involved in assembly discussions and tried to, in a constructive way, together with you the texts of the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice, improve and improve, in order to make our citizens more satisfied with the work of the court and to get to justice faster. For the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I will say that the amendments submitted by the SRS, all on all these bill proposals, are all identical, which is to delete members. It's okay, it's your legitimate right, I'm not getting into it. From its point of view, the Justice Ministry has considered every amendment very carefully, unrelated to whether it is - is deleted, or concerns amendments and additions to these provisions concerning the bill. Also, in this debate, in particular many questions have been asked exactly the same as in the debate in principle. I answered those questions in the debate in principle, but it's not my problem, and in the end, I consider it my obligation, to do it this way. The citizens of Serbia who are following parliamentary debates are familiar with this, of course, the MPs who participate in the assembly debates, and those who were not present is the matter of their party discipline and I will not enter it. As regards a concrete amendment relating to judicial staff, it refers to the fact that the situation remains unchanged. As the budget for judicial staff has been set all these years, so it will remain since 2012. The amendment concerns that those who are holders of judicial functions, their wage fixing, as well as expenditures for the functioning of courts and prosecutors, are moving on to the VSS and the State's Major Prosecutors, and this is not something the Ministry of Justice came up with, it is one of the democratic assets that has been drawn up by the national strategy for judicial reform in 2006, and, in the end, has been translated through the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, which is supported by almost all the parliamentary groups that are making up and now this respected home. As for the fact that there won't be enough pay for court and prosecutor's staff since 2012, that's simply not true. In the end, it is now in the debate on the 2012 draft budget law, so enough can be seen from the fact that these allegations are not correct. I also resolutely reject the fact that we are here, by means of financial means, trying to control the courts with regard to making certain decisions. This may be reason why, when he was able to manage a certain part of the system, he returned, the current Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia certainly has no way or desire to do so. On the contrary, our primary goal is to make Serbia's judiciary transparent, public, responsible and independent, and I think that every move we have just pursued these goals. I'm also prepared to answer all your questions in a further discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65787	The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65788	I'd just like to say, about this statement by the minister, Mrs. Malovic. What was the reason and cause to ask such a question – what is it and what are the motives to make changes in relation to staff. You have recently, within this set of laws, seen that you have made a distinction between the employees of the administration in the Constitutional Court and that you have provided in your proposal for a law to distinguish administrations and deputies in this court, constitutionally, from standing courts. There you predicted 30% to be a higher salary of the administration, i.e. employed staff, but reacting to these others in other courts, in the Court of Appeal, in the Supreme Cassation Court, in the Higher and Other Courts, why now to make a difference? There's a mix-up. You have now explained this and you could tell us at the beginning – it is about that and that, you need to make a correction or, therefore, it was a legitimate need or not. The SRS should not now be charged because the SRS has said these proposed members are deleted. That is why we have proposed this, because we believe that the provisions of the current law are more effective and more regular, because you have recently proposed it and adopted it by this Parliament. But in such a short procedure that laws are often changed, it is no longer clear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65789	Two minutes used by the MP's group. The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65790	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered that question in the principle debate, but as I said, I consider my obligation to repeat that answer to you. There is more than a clear goal for which we have left judicial and prosecutorial staff in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, in terms of determining wages and salary payments, because I hold for you that you are someone who knows how to function in the judicial administration and that is not only known to me, but also to respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, because you are very constructively discussing the laws coming from the Ministry of Justice, but I will remind you of a member of the 70th that is changing here, of his fourth position that says that the affairs of the justice department are responsible for the judiciary, in addition to others, and giving consent to the Rules on the internal organisation and systemisation of jobs in the court and the prosecution. The ministry of justice is that it gives consent to the expansion of the systematisation, proposed by the Ministry of Finance's personnel plan, and then approved by the finance ministry. That's why it's celibate for all jobs, from job approval to payout, to one place to another.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65791	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65792	Mrs. Malovic, you said - we want justice to be equally available for everything and as effective as possible. Approximately, that's what made us involved here. Nobody slows it down. I suppose and deeply believe that you are coming to this House with that intention. Our wish is also the same, but what we're telling you is we're talking to you from practice and purely concrete examples. Did you run the analysis now? It is said in article 70 that you have now explained, Art. In 70 and 83, they are also covered by these amendments that we propose to delete, that the affairs of the judicial administration, which the ministry is responsible for the judiciary, are monitoring the work of the courts. So I'm not talking about the High Court Council right now, I'm talking about the Justice Department as a judicial authority. Did you conduct the analysis of the network of courts? What did your analysis show? Is that good or is that what we hear from the judges, from the parties and, as counterpart Petar Jojic said, our forester will turn into a witness? But, well, let's not wander far. Is it true what they're telling us or do you have any other information? Do you go to the courts? Are you using your legal authority and obligation to see if that's the situation? We had at the previous session of the adoption of the Delegation Act for the purchase of a building and for the security of accommodation space, i.e. the conditions for working in the First Basic Court. There is another law in the procedure, where we will confirm the borrowing agreement, and we have, colleagues have already spoken, according to Serbia many untapped... The court, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, was an investor of these facilities, in order to create good conditions for the work of the judicial authorities, and now that is untapped. Do you have information, Madam Minister, that the judges of the basic courts do not want to and will not go to the judicial units? Do you have such information and are you doing something concrete on these issues? That's what we're interested in. So we want to give you maximum support in sincere and real judicial reform, not in something else. You say you've always had good intentions. The question is, is it always a good intention? You once said that you had sent 80 requests, or 80 proposals, to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, to decide on those requests by judges who were not re-elected. What about the court statement? You want me to tell you exactly when there was a statement from the Constitutional Court? Only 11 arrived a month after your statement that you sent 80 requests with specific reasons why some judges were not appointed judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65793	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask the Members of Parliament not to abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Not only because of the day in which we are, but otherwise I believe that punishment, as the Rules of Procedure prescribes, is not appropriate to the practice of parliamentary and that the last means that the chairman must be applied because the MP, for his own reasons, wants punishment. So I now inform you that, regretfully, given the days in which we work, every next MP who commits the offence, which was committed by MP Sreto Peric, will only be informed that he has been given a measure of warning. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I beg the People's Messengers not to receive - who can now? Anyone who wishes to comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and to address other participants in the session and the public shall be disciplined, self-disciplined and without mocking procedures during the session of the National Assembly. Anyone who doesn't, I find it a good parliamentary practice to inform you at this point that from now on I am applying the Rules of Procedure as it says. So it's not about the agenda, and the chairman is obliged to say the warning measures, because, unfortunately for me, I don't have any associates in the MPs, to form a practice where we listen to each other. As a result, MP Sreto Peric is not even interrupted, nor is he reminded that he seriously violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, nor has he been warned, and I have expressed regret that this is happening, so from now on I will apply the Rules of Procedure strictly, as the Rules of Procedure obliges me. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65794	Article 3 The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 January 2012, and the reason for the adoption of an emergency procedure is the following: this law is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure, since it could not cause adverse consequences for the work of the courts. Mrs. Malovic, this is, I say, the normal procedure of your ministry and government, but what are the adverse consequences that can occur? Who was the one who defended you from proposing this law in some normal procedure during the year? Why the emergency procedure? If we see the provisions of Articles 1 and 2, then we see that it is exclusively about budgeting, about how to separate competences in terms of withdrawing funds. You have here provided for the High Judicial Council to propose a budget in the work of current expenditure, expenditure on judicial staff, and to the ministry those resources relating to judicial staff. Mrs. Malovic, I'd like you to listen a little bit, I think it'll be educational. According to the provisions of the budget calendar, the ministry and the High Council of the judiciary are obliged and obliged to deliver the needs by 31 June, and they have done so for 2012. What does it matter now that this law is in force, if it's already been done? You had to do it. Right? You are now segregating the competences of these two authorities with regard to the withdrawal of those funds. Then in the opinion of the Government you say the following – the Government does not accept the amendment since the solution in Article 3. The draft law does not conflict with Article 196(4). The constitution, given that the entry into force of the draft law is linked to the entry into force of the 2012 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Look, the bill doesn't come into force, the law goes into effect. So whoever wrote his opinion, gave an opinion, and that's the government, she doesn't know the Constitution first. The Constitution makes it clear when the law does not enter, and the bill does. It cannot be bound by the provision of one law to the provision of another law which is in the procedure. They're both in the process. Will this affect in a legal sense and financially the withdrawal of funds? It can't affect, you did it the way the material law asked. You say there will be adverse consequences. What harmful consequences? And I'm asking, frankly, what's going to happen if the law doesn't come into force, how did you predict here on January 1st, 2012? Do you know what the adverse consequences are? Do you have them in the ministry? There's no adverse consequences. There are no adverse consequences because the provisions of this law will legally apply to financing, budgeting in 2013, for the 2013 budget. So we've had enough time. It speaks of ignorance, of indifference, of yours above all, you have proposed this law. Why is that unserious? Why is that unprofessional? Because you had to see this problem over the years. In legal life, the provisions of the Law on Court Order have been for three years. You had to see that first year. You shouldn't have proposed a law like that, but you submitted it. In practice, there have now been some shifts, and now you, based on these perceived failures, are now making a differentiation on the withdrawal of funds, but not on an urgent procedure, not on the violation of the Constitution, not in this way as you point out – if you do not adopt it, there will be harmful consequences. I ask you, what adverse consequences? There's no adverse consequences. The financing of 2013 is ahead of us. It's gonna be the way it's gonna be. It will be according to the provisions of this law. Why are you violating the Constitution with regard to the entry into force of the law? This isn't the first case. Here, we have the next one in the same situation. It's unserious, it's irresponsible. We have shown that, essentially, that normatively, there is no financial need for emergency procedure, and you say – not in the light that the entry into force of the bill is related to the entry into force of the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, etc., and that this will result in adverse consequences. He can't bring it. So no one reads. In the light of the amendments I have and stated there is no need to tie one law to another, there is no need. But no radicals have submitted the amendment, only this one is weak, so we can't accept it. Why can't you accept? Both from a fundamental point of view and from a normative aspect and from a financial aspect a justifiable amendment. This is unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65795	Four minutes used by the MP's group. Does anyone want a word, given that this is the last to submit an amendment to the debate in the particulars? No, I don't. We have completed our review of the amendments and I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Public Prosecutors, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Mirko Munjic and Nemanja Šarović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made, and since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Mirko Munjic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65796	Mrs. Malovic, one of the concrete epilogues of this kind of judicial reform that you have been conducting in recent years is this group of judicial laws that we are discussing today in particular. For these additions and amendments and additions of judicial laws, it simply wanted to be shown that they were technical natures and minors of only cosmetic nature. It's also this article I submitted my amendment to that I have the impression that that's exactly what you wanted to show. That it's just one complement of a minor technical nature. One supplement that will change the way budget allocations will be allocated, which will determine the relationship and to which the beneficiaries of the budget will be allocated. However, when this is viewed in another way from another perspective, I have the impression that other conclusions can be made. You, in the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, excluded only expenditure on staff in public prosecutors. I'll remind you that public prosecutorial staff, besides them, are prosecutorial interns, civil servants working on administrative, technical, accounting, information and other accompanying affairs. It's that group of people who work as public prosecutor's staff, who you've excluded from these expenditures in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Law. You're exempting this whole category from the Public Prosecutor's Department Act. You are referring to a regulation on the classification of posts and criteria for the description of the public posts of civil servants and deputies, and in this regulation you represent the jobs of the prosecutor's assistants. Furthermore, you say it is appropriate for the Justice Department to propose part of the budget for expenditure, for staff in public prosecutors. Mrs. Malovic, our position is that this group of staff in the public prosecutor's office, therefore, prosecutors' assistants, prosecutors' interns, as well as state officials working on administrative, technical, accounting and information affairs, as well as other auxiliary jobs should not have been exempt from the Public Prosecutor's Law as you did. Why? It is not clear here who will specifically propose the scope and structure of the budget for this purpose. What is the exact size and structure of these budgets? For this group of people you're exempt from Article 1. Who determines how these funds are distributed? Is this how the distribution of these funds will be possible for this group of people to be damaged, or could Mrs Malovic, someone in particular tell us – what will be their receipts in relation to the solutions that existed before this? It is clear to us that filling the budget is seriously shaken and in a situation where domestic production is reduced to a minimum and when there is an impact of this import hobby, more and more imports are, therefore, becoming less and less full of the budget. It is clear and normal that in such a situation neither this part, therefore part of the public prosecutor's office, or the staff in the public prosecutor's office, had to be covered by you by this proposal to supplement this law. However, the question arises which groups of people are actually specifically covered by this supplement of yours. This is exactly the hole of state officials working, I said in administrative, technical, accounting and informational and other accompanying jobs and one question arises – do you guarantee these amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Law in fact one legal certainty to this group of employees? These are so far, I will remind you of the civil servants along with those in courts and other civil servants on such jobs and work assignments that have had the lowest incomes so far. You're putting them in a position to somehow control them completely. It's this second connotation of this problem, you control their wages, you control the way their salaries are distributed, you control the height and the volume of pay, you control the existence of these people, you simply control the lives of these people. We feel that such a solution is not good and we feel that it should be left the way it was in the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65797	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. If anyone wants a word, this is the last amendment to be submitted to the amendments and amendments to the bill. No, I don't. We have completed our review of the amendments and I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Change of the Law on Judicial Taxes You have received amendments that were submitted to the Bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee agrees with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as an incomplete amendment of the 21st People's MP to Forward Serbia, and with the correction proposed to add a new Article 1 in front of Article 1, so that the above-mentioned amendment is compatible with Article 163(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be discussed and are not voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65798	Mrs Malovic, colleague of the Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to Article 1. I will remind you that in your proposal you wrote the following – of the fees charged 40% is distributed for the current expenditures of courts, except for expenditure on judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutor's office and 20% for improving the material position of employees in courts and public prosecutors who are judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutor's office of other expenditures as well as investments in accordance with the law. One practical question is asked, which is – who will be able to pay the court fee more? In time, Mrs. Malovic, you certainly know it as a court tax is perceived as something that should be a formal element of the initiation of a court case. The initiation and completion of the court proceedings. And another question arises – what has the court tax become now? It's really just an intrusion on the fairies. From something that was only a form of court procedure in its due time, you are now faced with the fact that the court tax is to become a basic source of income for the current expenditure of courts, as you are predicting here, except for expenditure on judicial staff and staff in public prosecutors, then a source of income to improve the material position of court employees and public prosecutors, and investment. It's all foreseen in this bill of law. On the other hand, we are all witnessing the total and total poverty of the Serbian population. In a situation where more than one million citizens are below the poverty line, when judicial proceedings are the only way, the only procedure for citizens of Serbia to come, for example, in certain situations. to his inheritance through a litigation procedure, like a previous procedure or some of his immovableity, then the question arises – who will simply be able to pay such high taxes? I think these taxes are too high for citizens, on the other hand, we see what these taxes are planned for. Do you, Mrs. Malovic, have comparable data, given how you predicted how to distribute these court fees. In the past period, how much has the court tax affected the current expenditure of courts, improving the material position of court employees other than this staff, and investing in courts? Is that information in your ministry? How long until now have these obligations been covered by the court cabs and how much will be covered now that you predict this kind of distribution? The point is, there's simply no production, there's no budget filling up, and it's normal for you to predict this kind of distribution that we think is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65799	Three minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65800	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course the Ministry of Justice has all the information relating to the financial resources. As I said, you can easily see for yourself, given that the 2012 Budget Law is currently under discussion, and in this bill is exactly what you have asked the question. I'll convince you that court fees are the basic source of income within the judiciary and that's exactly what the exact data is talking about. The budget of the judiciary is about 21 billion dinars. The budget's court fees account for four billion dinars. So the remaining 17 million dinars are being compensated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, this fact deprives you enough that court fees represent a basic source of income as well as any budget, I am unhappy, given that two-thirds of the budget goes to pay. So somewhere around 14 billion is going to pay both the legal holder and the staff within the courts and as you have seen in this amendment to bring about this, it is envisaged that, since the Law on Court Taxes predicts that 60% of the fees paid will be returned to the judiciary itself and that is exactly the four billion. Now, according to this proposal, the law we are discussing will be 40% at the level of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to improve the position of judicial holders and 20% for judicial, investment and other expenditure employees, which means that everything else will be replaced by the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65801	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65802	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic, there are several reasons for the court fees in the 100% amount to be settled and to be poured into the judiciary budget. The budget of the judiciary should finally be rounded up and judicial fees should improve the position of judicial employees, especially when it comes to administrative workers. I think their receipts are really very low and that it should come from you to change the law, that court fees are precisely because, as you say, it also improves the position of judicial employees, that one part of these taxis, as they come to improve the position of employees, although it seems a little illogical to you right now, but it should change the laws in which judicial fees should go to the very ones who have achieved it, precisely because of the poor position and standards of judicial employees. I think that's why you have the right, and you might suggest that the judiciary budget is not 60% or 40% and 20, as you suggested, if I were you, I would suggest, whether or not it would be inappropriate for someone, that it's illogical, that it's out of the question for some other reason. To improve the position of employees you have the full right and justification to ask for it. You won't lose anything. It is your right and I must tell you – what the Serbian citizens are suffering is a great pain now, and that is that they can no longer come to court easily. They can't ask for justice because they're high court fees. I have a case in Pancheva - 40,000 cases, which are, on the basis of a credible execution document. You know what the court was doing? Since 2000, some cases have not been paid since 1994. And public utility companies filed lawsuits, submitted proposals for forced enforcement on the basis of credible and judicial decisions, and now it's time for citizens to pay court fees, and the judge, or president of the court for ten years, even 14 years held cases in a drawer. You're right not to re-election those who did so. In 2007, the court president showed that he had resolved 14,000 cases and submitted a report to the justice ministry and the Supreme Court. However, these 14,000 items have not been solved, they are in the drawer. Now it's time for 40,000 citizens of Panchev to pay for the court's guilt. Watch the state's fault. The ministry of justice and the government should now compensate for the damage to the citizens. And what else is the greatest danger? From 1994 to today, the case has been in court, running a tight legal interest. You have a case, several cases in Panchev, brought out in public that with a thousand dinars, in 1994 to this day, a bill came out, a price now asked of citizens. Neither the guilty nor the debtors received lawsuits because they were held by the President of the Court in a drawer or in a closet. Now they have to pay, if they owed two grand, now they have to pay up to 800,000 dinars. Mrs. Malovic, reform the judiciary but bring in the work that everyone is really responsible for their work. In 2010, the election of the President of the Court was due to be completed, and you see this has not been done. It's one big failure by the ministry and the High Council of the Judiciary, to tell the judiciary, but they're high court fees. Citizens talk and say – they would sue the neighbor we owe, let's say 10,000, but what's worth when I'm going to have to pay five grand. If I'm still hiring a lawyer, I have to pay my lawyer in tariffs. I'm going to charge the charges, the fees on the verdict and the lawsuit. If there's an answer to the complaint and there's a tax. So the court fees have now made it impossible for a large number of our citizens not to dare come to court. One more thing, Mrs. Malovic, since I'm taking the opportunity, and you're working on it, there's no efficiency we expected. The Court of Appeals solves cases for two years and has not been resolved yet. A million cases are being executed at Belgrade's Basic Court. I don't know what it's doing. We want the efficiency of the judiciary, excellent. You have our support, but let that efficiency that results, not that it is verbal and that it is, let me say, in public it creates an impression as well. The efficiency is to get the citizens in time, if they file a lawsuit on time, pay and on time a fee, a decision to make that trial within a reasonable period of time. I'm afraid that although you had the intention to shorten the procedure and that's fine with the trial, but now you need to inspect the Supreme Cassation Court, and you, according to the Rules of Procedure, to monitor how cases are handled, as resolved cases are presented, whether court fees are paid or court fees are not paid, because municipal companies file charges, say, heating in Panc's 17,000 lawsuits. Did they pay the court fee? Check that out. I have to tell you, a large number of citizens complain, because of high court fees, they can't go into a lawsuit, nor go into this risky business because of the court fees, because as soon as they hand over the lawsuit, let's say for alimony, they're immediately looking for a court tax under the new Rules of Procedure and by law. The mother says – where to pay, the husband went, fled from this city, changed the place of residence. I can't press charges for alimony charges, I have a verdict, but he escaped, and I'm being asked to pay the tax immediately. You are currently in practice having these problems that many citizens complain about being high taxes, and my proposal is, if you can, some amendments to the law in relation to fees to go as far as possible to the judiciary fund. The material position will be solved where better and in this way the citizens will be more satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65803	The time of the authorised representative has been used, and two minutes and 50 seconds remain since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65804	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jojic, I thank you for the proposal to return the court fees to the judiciary at 100%, but I would like to remind you that this is the current solution, where judicial fees are being paid back to the judiciary as a percentage of 60%, which took place in 2001. You, as minister of justice, have had the opportunity to participate in the creation of the budget and you know it is impossible for a single body to return to that body, because if this were to happen then nothing would happen from the functioning of the state. I can't imagine what the tax administration would do to collect taxes, from which in most parts of the states is funded and allows for the functioning of the state, customs, etc. Simply, all of this represents the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, a revenue that serves both for the functioning of state bodies and for raising the standard of living of citizens. Are court fees high? Probably, in certain individual cases, they are. I'd like to agree with you, and I want to assure you that much sharper control of the charge of the court taxis than it was before. Unfortunately, we have had a situation where trade courts represent bodies that contribute to the most collection of court fees. It happened, for example, that in Belgrade, a large number of court taxis will be obsolete, unpaid, which is inadmissible and this is no longer a situation, is not a practice. The number of subjects of statistics says that the number of objects does not decrease. I believe you, perhaps some citizens are unable to pay a court fee. This has been settled through procedural laws and there are solutions in the Law on litigation and so on. The Institute of Poverty Law. I know you know that. I am simply saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, but in this regard I would like to stress that the Justice Ministry has completed the draft Law on Free Legal Assistance and I believe, which is our constitutional obligation, that this will also contribute to a better approach to justice and better access to justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65805	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65806	I suggest that the proposed amendment not be adopted. I think the good solution given in the draft law amending the Law on judicial fees is. I think these last three laws we've discussed just point out that the Ministry of Justice and the Government's relationship to the judicial staff and the staff in the prosecution shows the will to establish a clear responsibility. The ministry practically assumes responsibility for the very material position of the staff, and the judicial staff and staff in the prosecution. I think that's a good solution. What I would like to welcome, in particular the proposed solution from Article 1 of this bill, I note, so far, we have had a solution in the law that 60 percent of taxi fees will be used to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, court staff, etc. In this way, this is exactly what the court staff are saying and defines that 20% of the fees charged are going to improve the material position of court employees and public prosecutors, who are judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutor's office and for certain other expenditures. True, the discussion on this bill said that the court fees themselves are high, however, it is not the subject of this bill, since it is not at all the subject. So we're not saying how much court fees are, we're just saying how the fees will be charged. I think it's a good thing that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have, in this way, confirmed the importance of judicial staff in doing justice in general. Because it's very important because it's impossible for judges and prosecutors to do their job well unless they have behind them and certain judicial staff to follow them in this responsible business of fighting for a fair society. I think a well-proposed solution is in the law, and I suggest that the amendment not be adopted without the adoption of what the Government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65807	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. Time is available for two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65808	What Mrs Malovic was talking about is certain that it is very important and that today's proposal is a matter of judicial tax. It is no harm to say anything about whether these court fees are in practice too high or not. This is a unique opportunity to inform you and to know that you have a problem, because citizens react and complain. If you don't believe me, you can collect information from the field from people who work in the judiciary. A colleague, Mikovic, said that this law is not the subject of a court tax, I agree with that, but it is not a waste to distract you anyway and to say that it is in practice and that it is a big problem. Most importantly, our wish and our proposal, the SRS, is that there is no difference in both tenants and civil servants, and on the other hand, it is known that the differences between judges and prosecutors and their deputies in salaries are significantly greater than those of the staff working as administrative staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65809	One minute left at the MP's disposal. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65810	If it's real, so it's very useful and it's going to improve the work of the judiciary, we're wondering why you didn't do it last year. Why didn't you start this year? Why aren't you in May, if it's so revolutionary? So it's again a responsibility to the government that didn't spot it in time. Secondly, when we talk about judicial protection as a universal human right, it must be available to every citizen. If a citizen can't, and we know how many working-law disputes there have been in privatisation, when a worker can't press charges against his former firm where he spent 20, 30 or 40 years, then it's tragic. But he doesn't have the means. He's in a hurry, he's out, and so on. You have hundreds of thousands of cases in courts, and there would be tens of thousands, but people don't have the means to sue. That's tragic. That's why we say that court fees are high and should be considered. And why doesn't the state find a way to secure the 40% and give it to the judiciary? It's a matter of power now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65811	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65812	I think it should also be said here that there is a legal solution that is valid, and that is the possibility of freeing people from paying for court fees. Any experienced lawyer can explain or anyone who is in the judiciary to anyone who has insufficient knowledge of legal matters that there is a possibility of achieving so-called justice. poor law. Then, there is a real possibility, an applicable option in practice, in front of courts, I know specifically about the courts in Pancheva, that in the exercise of the right to minimum earnings there is absolutely no question of any paying tax in labour disputes. I can tell you from concrete and my personal legal practices that it is absolutely applied. So, on the other hand, I don't think we should be here on a flat-rate basis making certain claims and claiming something that isn't true, at least in relation to our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65813	You have no right to a replica, MP Peter Jojic. You have the right to make your argument, as you have done, about the level of the court fee. I allowed it, no matter what the subject of the agenda. As you have the right to do so, so is every other MP of the people and there is no reason for replication. No one has disputed your claims, nor mentioned you, nor has anything been done that would allow for the right to reply. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the final amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. Madam Minister, you said the number of cases didn't drop. Of course, the number of cases has not been reduced because of the increase in misbehavior, and then it is logical to increase the number of objects and remain the same. But what would be very important to know here? There is no successful judicial reform if judicial fees and even after the judicial reform has been completed unless the court fees are followed and there is no optimisation that could be a good solution to that amount. Of course, you saw that the participation of court taxis in the judicial budget is in that variant when 60% of the court fees go into the judicial budget. That's one-fifth of the total. If it is considered that 60% goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget then it is about one quarter to one third of a court taxi, the total amount in the judiciary. That's not small at all. If the court fees were too low then we would have a situation in practice that there are a large number of people who want to achieve some judicial protection, and it doesn't even have to be basic. If the court fees are high, then they drive people who have the right based on positive legal regulations to address the court, so they're away from the court. That's why we're here to run one analysis. At this point, no one argues that you have an exact examination of how much of the court taxis flow or collect income, but just to try to make them really have a more serious impact on the judiciary itself. We believe that Article 2 should be deleted for the reasons why you provided for in the draft law to enter into force on 1 January and Article 196. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 4, says the legislation is the earliest to come into force eight days after the day of publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65815	Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65816	I think it's a good bill myself. Article 2 The bill says that this law enters into force on 1 January 2012, and I believe that this is an absolutely appropriate solution. It will then enter into force and the 2012 budget law. I'd just like to say that in Article 196. The constitution explicitly states that there is an opportunity for the law to enter into force before, if there are particularly justified reasons. So you don't have to wait eight days from the day of publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65817	Anyone else want a word? Since this is the last amendment to the search in detail, and we've completed a search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes the morning part of our work for today. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I shall give the following notice. After we inform the National Assembly of the afternoon session, a break will be set that will take up to 1600 hours. At 4:00 p.m., a part of our session, the parliamentary issues of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which lasts from 1600-1900 hours, are committed to the Rules of Procedure. As the Rules of Procedure are determined that on the last Thursday of the month and we are doing this after 19.00 hours, I would however like to inform the MPs that today, on the basis of Article 87, we will be working and after the session of parliamentary issues has ended, from 16.00 to 19.00 hours, because the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today, Thursday 29 December 2011 starting at 19.00 hours as a day for voting on all agenda points of the 6th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I'm setting a break now, at 13.20 p.m. We continue our work at 4:00 a.m. session where the members of the government will be answering MP questions by 1900 hours. After that, we approach the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since today is the last Thursday of the month and in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes under the position of the fourth member of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. An ordinarily raised parliamentary question by a representative of the Government, or the Prime Minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, as referred to in Article 206(1). Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for asking questions if you have not already done so. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65819	Madam President, on November 24th, I asked the government about the statements of VBA Director Mr. Kovac, to which I received a written reply on December 23rd. Since the answer didn't generally sublime the problem I presented, I'm going to try to re-engage the details of my question. The response suggested that requests for demilitarisation of the south of Serbia have long been part of the public appearances of certain political leaders, Albanians from Presevo and Bujanovac. Such demands clearly point to the insistence that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia responsible for the security of citizens in the area of the administrative line are prevented from being present in this area. The question I've asked is, in fact, why and after 10 years, after the relaxation of the land's security zone still at the entire width of this area, there are still mini-bases of the military and the gendarmes, not just on the administrative line that is potential in the government's response. In that response, there is no mention of the presence of the gendarme as a special force of police. The plan and programme of the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, in addition to other objectives, Annex 5b, the plan to establish peace security in these municipalities was designed to ensure that, following the disarmament of the armed Albanians, special police and military forces were withdrawn, and that local police with its regular activities and peacetime military forces should be returned to Kosovo and continued with regular activities, especially jobs and police and military on the administrative line with Kosovo. The apostrophysed demands of Albanian politicians primarily refer to a non-mutual or extraordinary presence and a mini base of military and gendarmes in the entire land zone, especially with the activities of a gendarme that is not only within the zone, but also with frequent excursions and other settlements outside this area, often and in traffic control. I will not dispute the military's activities in maintaining mountain roads, but there is now a key problem that if 90% of the population of these violence within the land zone has left their houses, their hearths, then the question of who is using this aid and that presence when the inhabitants are no longer in those settlements.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65820	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want a word? (No) It is obvious that your question is referred in such a way and such content that the Minister in writing, or Government, will provide you with an answer. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very embarrassing today, at the end of the year, when we practically have three ministers present here, in particular, my question concerns and I know that this session is losing its meaning if I won't get a chance to ask three plus two MPs here and I get an answer. So it is not correct because the Prime Minister said yesterday in an informal conversation that he will make sure that the larger number of ministers come here and are completely excess of these parliamentary issues, respecting those people who came here and refer to the ministers. Nevertheless, I will use my parliamentary question to ask. The parliamentary question concerns a situation very unpleasant in the municipality of Malo Crnića, the place of Bozic. In 1963, MZ Bozovac built a residential building with existing locals with its own resources and resources then Malo Crnic. The locale, according to the contract of use, used the "Stig" Bozovac Cooperative and now a bankruptcy liquidation procedure has been launched against the cooperative. The president of the local community and the citizens of Božvec who stand behind the whole story submitted a request, namely through the municipal public defender, and now the republican public defender to remove part of it, for the purpose of the elimination and bankruptcy of the disputed act. However, they did not receive an answer regarding the excretion of the bankruptcy mass, and the bankruptcy manager called the bidding and it is ongoing. In addition, the local community filed a lawsuit with a provisional measure of 16 December through the defenders and that the legal deadlines for that month, given that the date for bid is 30 January, could result in adverse consequences and that the citizens of this small town would be damaged because they had been painfully creating this controversial business space that is being sold today. This is one of the many situations happening in Serbia. I appeal to the Minister of Justice and ask him to respond urgently on this matter, because if the deadline is missed and the court does not act on a temporary basis, there will be inconceivable consequences, and some parts of such behaviour, are against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65822	Thank you. Since there is no response from the ministers present, you will receive an answer from a written firm. I would ask MPs to point at least a part of the issue to the present ministers, so we have a dialogue. National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65823	Thank you. This is the best picture of your government, what you've come to see. We will no longer participate in this circus with you. You've brought in three ministers who won't answer any questions from the MPs, and we as well have the right to ask. Yesterday your prime minister lied twice. Once we caught him right away this afternoon, when he lied about the railway business. The second time he lied, because he referred us to the MPs to come today and ask questions. What did you do? They all ran away. There's not a single minister from the DS. Shame on you, and we're no longer in this farce.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65824	I give the word to the MP Vladimir Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65825	Mr. Andric said one good word, only one - shame on you. I say – 101 times shame on you, because if you have dedicated four years of EU bid and preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia, and you have failed, gambled and lied, and it is no wonder that there are only three of you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who are supposed to give an answer today - why did you betray Kosovo? Why did you do this beyond the law of the Republic of Serbia, past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, past the resolutions that exist? You have come today to answer to the MPs of the people, to answer the Serbs to KIM for your efforts. What you've been doing, what you've been doing all these four years, may it serve you honor. Since you did all this beyond what I said, past the interests of Serbs living on KIM, Serbs living in Serbia and all citizens, you did so and betrayed KIM. Shame on you 101 more times and be ashamed of what you did for Serbs in KIM and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go. You ask the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65826	National MP Stojanka Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, I was expecting to see the KIM Minister today. For that reason, I waited for 1600 hours and I didn't ask a question this morning, but I sincerely hope to get an answer in writing. I received a request from the Head of the Department for the Implementation of International Agreements and Compensation at the National Employment Service to refer the question to the KIM Minister. Namely, the National Employment Service is currently paying a temporary fee to the PIO group of 672 people living in the Republic of Montenegro since 1999. After the independence and independence of the Republic of Montenegro, therefore, after 22 May 2006, the National Employment Service addressed the authorities to solve this problem, because they had knowledge that many users gained a certain status in the Republic of Montenegro, got citizenship, had a legal residence for 10 years, personal tickets for foreigners, had real estate, had employment, employed and the like, but always remained unresponsive. The National Employment Service for the July payment of this giving after informing responsible workers in the Prepolje branch that a number of users appear on records with personal documents from another country, suspended payment for about 37 persons who have personal documents of the Republic of Montenegro, i.e. ID cards, identity cards for foreigners and refugee IDs of the Republic of Montenegro. So they cut off the payment by five people after they found out they had sought and received a write-off from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? The problem is that many of them are employed in Montenegro, and that the work engagement is not reported to the National Service's competent branch in order to end their further payment. This imposes a major problem of double contributions, i.e. double work experience, because during the time they received compensation and while the National Service paid them contributions, they made an internship and contributions to the Republic of Montenegro. With this in mind, the National Service has so far suspended the payment of a group of 50 people who have founded a working relationship indefinitely with an employer in the Republic of Montenegro. However, I believe that there is a significantly larger group of persons working throughout the year in the territory of the Republic of Montenegro where they live, and that the National Service does not have the opportunity to verify it. My question is this, because I don't have much time to explain, when the KIM Ministry will give the persons found to be citizens of the Republic of Montenegro abolishing the money they receive on the basis of temporary cash compensation and rerouting the people of KIM living with their families, who for some reason failed to exercise that right when they were supposed to... (President: bring the question to an end. )......................................................................................................... to which, even today, they have the right and to make such a decision by the working group responsible for this, if it is very well known that requests in large numbers are coming daily at the Ministry of Kim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65828	Thank you. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the rest of the government that is present today, the governments in ruins, the governments that have been dealing with fraud, lies and deceptions for the Serbian people in Serbia, and especially the Serb people in the area of KIM, all since the beginning of the SAA, and through the introduction of the Eulex mission, it has been working to break the Serb Corps in the KIM area. Just to remind you, the KIM minister has disbanded 12 local congregations with an explanation – which fool has called the elections in these congregations. To remind you, only the president of the parliament sitting right there, former Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic, can sign off on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia. This same gentleman disbands these congregations with a reason that it does not work and that it should not exist. It is normal that they should not, because it is the order of Christifor Del and Peter Faith and he fulfils their duties, not the orders of the Serbs and the Serb people. You've started a negotiation process, a process where you're all doing everything you can to energize quasi-pattarian institutions in KIM space. Is there any detail of any order in your agreements regarding the Serb animal in the KIM area? By yesterday, the occupiers, your friends, the barbed wire, were building on us. Today you are building us in the KIM area and making ghettos from the southern Serbian province. You want to deliver us to the quasi state, you want to deliver us to Hashim Thaci – why are you so persistent and persuading Serbs with KIM that President Hashim Thaci is better than Boris Tadic? We are aware that President Boris Tadic is wrong, that he is a traitor, but we still want him to be our president, Boris Tadic, not to be our president, Hashim Thaci. But you don't give it to us, you're moving us away. You're asking Serbs to commit collective suicide. You set us up, you put us on chairs and you put a noose around our necks, and you're asking us to pull... (President: I will ask you not to use insults when it comes to the president, Mr Boris Tadic, who protects Serbia's interest most consciously and in accordance with the constitution. Please, you can't call the president a traitor. ) Please, I don't want to offend anyone, talk about the truth, talk about the problems of the Serb people from the KIM area. I'm asking Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education. Mr. Minister, you've probably been involved in this agreement on the recognition of college diplomas. Please give me an answer, one single sentence – what is the improvement for a Serbian student in KIM space with this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65830	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary first. Minister, you have your word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65831	Dear counterpart Kragovic, you remember that a colleague of Halimi, who is not here, has repeatedly asked questions for recognition of the University of Pristina diploma and that we government representatives have repeatedly provided answers to that question, and I, as Minister of Education now and then, when I was in a situation to say several times that every solution that has been made will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244. That's the solution. This solution helps a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have graduated from various parts of the Republic of Serbia from the university in Pristina in a legally legal way, respecting the legal provisions of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244, to give him what he has completed, so that tomorrow's knowledge can benefit from its improvement and its profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65832	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65833	Mr. Minister, you seem to have fallen from Mars. You haven't even read this agreement. (President: Mr Kragovic, don't put me in a position to impose sanctions on you. You can't talk to Mr. Secretary that way. ) Did you give Mr. Chiquiriz a sanction when he said today that we had been led by psychopaths in the past? No, you're not. You accept that and you realize it's true, and you want to punish me. Here, punish me. I'm telling Mr. Secretary he didn't even read the agreement. The agreement says only to recognise the Cypriot diplomas from some Shiptar quasi-university, that there is nothing to help a Serbian student. I'll give you an example of a student who finished law in Kosovo Mitrovica. She has a married sister in Slovenia. She went there to visit and applied to get a job, because she can't get a job because there are no living and working conditions, this government can't create conditions for young students who graduate. What they answered – you can compete and you will get a job, but you must verify your diploma in Pristina. Please, that's the agreement you signed. An agreement that our children, my child, when he graduates from Kosovo Mitrovica tomorrow, will go to Pristina to verify his diploma, so he can work in Slovenia, Montenegro or BiH tomorrow. That's what you did, but you won't tell this people. Second, what else did you do about the other agreements? To whom should I ask the question – former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Oliver Dulic, now Minister of Protection or Business, what does he do? Why doesn't the KIM budget have a single dinar for the agricultural item? That's what the KIM minister admitted. Since he's not here, I'm asking you, sir. You've been working on this subject and answer my question. There is a point of 50 million for the sustainable return of Serbs to KIM, but there is not one single dinar to help that Serb people, the Serb peasant who lives downstairs and who should sow his oran and has some condition. Normally, you leave it and do not separate it, do not plan it, but plan to say it in the next period when the crop comes – now you Serbs go look at Thaci, let him help you, and let him create the conditions for you to work. Shame on you for doing this to the Serb people in the KIM area. This is the treasonous policy of a treasonous regime headed by Boris Tadic, who has been putting us bald, and he has been wearing a bald head for four years and working in co-operation with Hashim Thaci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65834	I give the People's MP Kragovic a warning. Do any of the ministers want to answer, although there were no questions here? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65835	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a session of the KIM Committee was held yesterday. At that session were the presidents of local self-government, our fellow citizens living in the territory of the North KiM. We heard one initiative, that a referendum is being called in northern Kosovo by four municipalities that exist there. Excuse me, three for now. I have a question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 99 of Position 3, has declared jurisdiction of the National Assembly, which calls for a Republic referendum, have local self-government representatives from the north of KIM consulted with the Ministry of Local Self-Government? Does this taking over of jurisdiction mean establishing some new legal practice? Because the Law on Local Self-Government, it is true, opens up the possibility for local self-governments to discuss the referendum, but only from the part-round of their work, and above all, regarding the communal arrangement of these municipalities. If some municipalities in the north of KiM usurp the Constitution and constitutional powers, if some political parties support them, does this mean that these political parties are not subject to the RS Constitution? Does this mean that they are not subject to the preamble of the Constitution, which says that KIM are an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia? On the other hand, does such a legal practice open up the possibility for another municipality, another body of the Republic of Serbia to also call a referendum? Let me just remind you that we have learned from the public information funds that the referendum issue will be – are you in favour of keeping the North KiM under the full legal sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? Where does the right of some local self-government to separate part of the Republic of Serbia from legal sovereignty and to ask such a question? It's a harsh violation of the Constitution. It requires an urgent reaction from the Constitutional Court. This requires consultations of local self-government representatives with the Ministry of Local Self-Government. The constitution is not a toy in the hands of disobedient children. The RS constitution obliges all actors in political life. Indeed, as a People's Messenger, I have no answer why is one attitude and one member of the Constitution valid in Kruševec and not valid in Kosovo Mitrovica? I have no answer, when the next day, such a referendum question wishes some municipality in southern Serbia to set up its fellow citizens, and on the other hand, what will happen when the Constitutional Court declares that this activity is not in line with the RS Constitution? I can only imagine how the next day will write the Pristina press and what it will say afterwards. I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to give me an answer to this question and I also expect that representatives of local self-government in the north of KIM consult with the Ministry of Local Self-Government, with the Constitutional Court and that no one in this country really should violate the Constitution and take constitutional powers that do not belong to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65836	The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, given that I don't see here or the Prime Minister, I don't see nor the Minister of Agriculture and Trade, I will address Mr. Dulic and I hope you, Mr. Minister, will listen to what I ask you and get an answer, so that we can continue this story. We are witnessing that for 11 years, the SRS has been trying to convince these governments that have ruled over these 11 years, that a minimum 5% of the total budget should be allocated from the government of the Republic of Serbia for agriculture, for this failed Serbian agrarian. I keep saying every year when you bring in budgets and budget rebalances, you keep going around that 2.5%. Now the subsidies you give to agriculture are 20 billion, as it stands and writes here. While reading the newspaper, however, the special newspaper "Dnevnik" says -- it appears that subsidies for agriculture are 30 billion. I'm asking you -- who's here to tell one truth to this registered agricultural land and that troubled Serb steam, how long will they carry the burden of this country on their backs without anyone from the government thinking about them? It's the only branch of the economy that brings surplus to this country and this four-billion-dollar budget, between four and four-and-a-half billion dollars. Yes, Mr. Markovic, you heard very well. You've heard well, since you've heard well, you've heard well. My question is – registered agricultural holdings from half a hectare to 100, this time brought from the Ministry of Agriculture from half a hectare to 30 hectares, should be paid by 31 December 2011. I ask Mr. Dulic, since we don't have a Minister of Agriculture and Trade and Prime Ministers, how much is paid and when will it be paid, by 31 December, these from half a hectare to 30 hectares? Then the second question – will a subsidy of 14,000 per hectare, which I am talking about, be paid from 30 to 100 hectares from 1 January 2012 to 31 January 2012? I'd really like to ask, Mr. Dulic, if you'd answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65838	Minister Dulic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65839	Thank you for asking. I know that you are aware that I do not have an answer to that question at this time, but I will make sure that Minister Petrovic answers you personally as soon as possible, both you and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65840	People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65841	I am not guilty, Mr. Minister, why he is not here as Minister and Prime Minister, but that is why he is here a representative of the people and citizens of Serbia, Milorad Krstin, with fellow MPs from the SRS parliamentary group. In that name I ask and ask the question – how long will the Serbian pair suffer what no one else will understand, which is not to take care of registered agricultural holdings, you wanted so much. You are well aware that in the first year, around 380 thousand landowners were registered, and now it has fallen down, according to this and the new budget proposal for 2012, below 100,000 registered agricultural holdings. Why? Because they can't pay that PIO, the pension and disability insurance you're asking them to, and that's why they can't get what's coming to them under the law. According to the decision of this congregation, 14,000 dinars per hectare, not only those engaged in warfare, but also those engaged in livestock farming and milk production, those who produce ramen junada and all those who participate in this profit, which is that branch of agriculture, the only and strongest, the most important branch of the economy that brings surplus to this country. I repeat, a minimum of four billion dollars brings surpluses. How many of you, i.e. The government has been detaching for this fallen agrarian for 11 years. The peasant can't bend anymore, he can't bend anymore. He can't pay his commitments, and he can't take anymore tycoons and financial powers that set prices for their final products without talking about a repromation he raised from last year for 50%. It refers specifically to artificial fertilisers, seeds and plant protection. That's my question, Mr. Minister, to you, not your 22-second answer. I'm asking you the same question again. I hope this time you will answer me as much as you will as the Minister who is in the Government, who represents the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65842	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65843	I come from Pancheva and probably like any representative of a particular region, I am interested above all in what affects the most citizens of Pancheva and the citizens of South Banat, except for the question of travel infrastructure where there's obviously a lot of work going on lately. It is another area, which is a question of improving the quality of air and constantly reducing pollution, above all aero pollution in the area of the town of Pančeva. It is something that wakes up every citizen of Panchev and what they lie with, with the question – whether or not the extent to which the aero-pollution will be reduced. He whom the serpent bites, and the lizard fears. What was built in the immediate vicinity of Panchev, I mean the southern industrial zone, the chemical industry, which, in some ways, always reminds us that five times in each new investment we see no further environmental pollution, especially air pollution. In that sense, I ask Mr. Minister – whether new investments are being monitored and all that is planned to be done in the area, first of all, the chemical industry in Pancheva, I mean the refinery, petrochemicals, all that has been critical so far and where certain shifts have been made because in this period of over several years Panchevo can in the latest report praise that it is no longer on the top of the list of aero-pollutions. This does not mean that there are no certain risks, this does not mean that there is no huge risk of transporting dangerous substances across the Panchev area. That is why I have asked Mr. Mrkonjic earlier about the road infrastructure and the provision of alternative routes, not to pass these dangerous substances through the centre of Pančeva and the centre of Belgrade. I got an answer at one of the last sessions. I'm asking a question about monitoring new investments, asking a question about what's very important. We have done a lot in the area of gasification and city heatification and pollution reduction, and we have done so with the help of the EU and European funds of four million euros, which was received as a donation at the city level. Now I'm still interested, because powdery matter, it's those little particles that don't keep their noses in their noses, but go straight to the bronchies, so on. PM 10, I'm just asking – what is planned in the field of energy efficiency and individual bars and is this being monitored and how can we contribute to this reduction in aero pollution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65844	Minister Oliver Dulic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65845	Thank you very much. I think the good news for the citizens of Panchev is the fact that according to the latest data provided by the Environmental Protection Agency, which is due to the permanent measurements, i.e. air monitoring that is happening in Panchev, several locations of Panchevo came out of a group of the most endangered cities when it comes to air pollution. I think most of the citizens of Pančev are aware of that, because today, in fact, we have brought the issue of air pollution in Pančev down to the incidences when there are heat inversions, or meteor conditions when the fog goes down. You know very well that when this happens, given that we have done one more thing, which we considered to be extremely important, which is that according to international conventions and our clearly expressed view of both the ministries and the government that citizens must be informed about the state of their own environment, we have achieved that air pollution today, the movement of concentration, especially benzene and PM10, is also available on the Internet. We, whenever there are increases, have immediate arm, therefore, not only of industry, not only of the media and inspection, but of the citizens themselves. For this very reason, as you know, on several occasions, especially in crisis months, and during the fall, from the fall to winter, when there are great differences in atmospheric pressure and temperature, we have several times closed the suitable refineries, especially by overrunning. We've done, of course, everything, and you're aware of that, to solve the problem of Petrochemy, that is to fund and complete the base, in fact, of an escalating basin, which has significantly reduced the concentration of flammable substances in the air. In the end, it can be said that we have established with the Oil Industry of Serbia, namely the Panceva Refinery, that every time these events occur without discussion, every warrant, regardless of the need, or demand of the market and those problems that possibly in the fuel supplying of such an inspector's decision to challenge. Of course, the businessmen aren't always happy about it, but what we've proven in the last few months and years is that, above all, health and environment, especially in Panchev, are far more important to us than that. The problem of Panchev will exist as long as we have old plants and as long as we have installations, that is, technology that are citizens, at a time when other standards of environmental protection existed. You know that at this point, the oil industry of Serbia is devoting huge funds that are invested in protecting the environment, not only in Panchev, but in the territory of the entire country. In Pancheva, at this point, there are entirely new plants that should be fully modern in accordance with European standards, that is to convert production and that are supposed to take the Panchean refinery, i.e. only Panchevo off the list of cities where there are installations that pollute the environment. I hope this will happen by that deadline, which is the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. At this time, the Ministry of Environment, together with the Regional Secretariat for Environmental Protection, is working to issue all necessary permits and that the dynamics of works, which are currently ongoing, be followed by adequate technological processes confirmed by our audit committees, i.e. that the state be active participants in monitoring each of the components that are being installed there. I can give you one more report related to the very way it's done right now. What I can tell the citizens of Panchev and the general public, we are extremely pleased with how dynamics are happening. What we can already confirm at this point by our professional services, therefore, there is no doubt that the moment the old plant is interrupted by work and complete production, or the oil refinery is transferred to a new facility, you will really have no reason for permanent concern, except, of course, about some very effective situations that none of us can predict. The ministry has developed new action plans for facilities in the southern zone. With each of the contaminants, we have reached agreement on how and how to deal with different situations. As far as Petrohemia is concerned, we just hope that after this acquisition that took place, the entry of the oil industry of Serbia, or Gazprom into it, will come up with all necessary investment ventures that should definitely solve and modernise the facilities. Anyway, we can say that at this point, the situation is significantly better than it used to be. What remains a chronic problem, not only in Panchev, but also in many other cities, are individual bars. As you know, 40% of Serbia warms up in winter in individual bars. A significant percentage of Serbia heats over city heats on environmentally unacceptable energies, such as mules. It's all caused by environmental pollution. We measure it all and we're aware of it, but without major investment in this area in years, not to say for decades, we can't make any more significant shifts. I think each of us has to be aware of that. In Panchev, huge funds have been invested to slowly close individual bars, to build a secondary gas network. I know you're doing it right now. We expect the city of Pancheva to extend the project in the future, and I think it will significantly reduce the burden of environmental pollution when it comes to the town of Panchevo. Of course, one of the key things that we will do in 2012 as a ministry is to finance energy efficiency projects, which, due to investments in building loads with insulation materials, public buildings and private facilities, will allow more energy to be saved, less energy to be produced and to reduce the need for energy production, especially in households that use individual bars, or heating to heat their premises. All in all, I think that from the beginning that we have drawn this new policy to this day, no matter what the situation is not yet great, we have achieved significant results and I hope that the citizens of Panchev will be able to confirm it as well. We are aware that it is completely unacceptable and almost impossible to live in Pancheva sometimes in some days or nights when it is simply impossible to evaporate substances into the atmosphere, or when polluting substances return and fall into the city causing an increase in concentration, especially benzene in the air that are sometimes several times greater than allowed. But you're also aware that at that moment, we've established a mechanism for the inspection to react immediately, to shut down the transacres, to shut down all necessary technological processes in order to stop this pollution, and usually it happens as soon as possible. We will continue to do so in the future, I repeat, regardless of the great dissatisfaction that this causes in the leadership of the Refinery. We'll do it until it's completely over and every reason we have the possibility of increasing the polluting substances in the air. If you want all this much wider, of course, I can deliver it to you in writing. That's what I'm going to ask my professional services to do, and you will personally have the answer to pass it on to the citizens of Panchev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65846	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, new three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65847	I would like to thank you for this answer to the question, because it is important not only for the MP but for the citizens of Panchev. This is also important for all children with respiratory problems. We know very well when our children wake up at night because of laryngitis or other similar manifestations, health manifestations. I'd like to ask another question. I noted that it is very important for us in the area of Pancheva to reduce the risks per capita. This issue is primarily directed towards Minister Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in terms of travel and other infrastructure. We have already discussed once that the possibility of moving freight traffic outside the centre of Panchev and Belgrade towards the bypass and towards the Zemun-Borca bridge, also today-to-morrow, towards the south end of the bypass and around Panchev and Belgrade, with the hope that the practical route of the highway profile will continue and from Bubanj Potok via Vinca, according to Starchev, will further connect to the road to Romania, as it will be an opportunity for all dangerous matter and potential poisons to be removed from both the railways and the road from the current crossings through densely populated settlements. That's why I'm asking about the realisation plans, first of all, I'm thinking of a southern roundabout around Belgrade, so today-to-morning road-rail bridge south of Belgrade and Panchev, is there a problem here or is it going on a regular course of things?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65848	Thank you. Minister Mrkonjic wants, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65849	I've already thought he wouldn't want the infrastructure questions again, which is proof that I've been doing a good job. You have nothing to ask me. I'm sorry for the anxiety some MPs here express, for the insult, but well, I guess that's part of our playful political scene. I'm not inclined to accept such outbursts, if they were here, I would now respond, no matter what I tell them, but surely the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing as well as it is, for the time being, unique in the position of all those projects we've been doing, including the projects of traffic infrastructure, number one. In that sense, I answer to Mr. Mikovic. Of course we're taking care of Corridor 11, a week ago we opened up a section of the bypass around Vrsec, as the first part of the Corridor that was completed. As for what you're talking to me about in Panchev, we need first of all to complete the project documentation that bridge over the Danube of Vinci, that's the part that relates to the bypass and tie Vinci to the bypass, with the Orlover. I suppose you know, President Tadic recently visited that section of the bypass, that it was heading towards the dynamics we had and that it would be completed within the deadline. What's important to us right now is that the Borca Bridge, the Borčan Bridge and part of the bypass around Panchev enter into the realization. I expect this to begin on March 1st, and the whole move will, therefore, be in place for the whole tour of Belgrade on March 1st and beyond. Of course, that will be the result of the next government. As for the highway to Panchev, you know it was done in 1999 or 2000 at a time when it was hard to do, to build. You see the quality is good today. I was almost in Pancheva, and I see he's being well maintained. As for one question that is likely to be asked by Mr Jojic, I would like to answer that question immediately. The railway must be moved both from the city of Belgrade and from Pancheva, it is unequivocal. Today dangerous matter is passing through the core of Belgrade, it will not be possible to do so until the bypass I was just talking about is finished. As far as trains are concerned, I know that the citizens of Panchev are suffering, I very often, once a week at least go down to the Wolf's memorial to see how these trains go. We don't have enough compositions on the railroad so we can do it. That's why we rescheduled some of the Russian loan somewhere around 100m euros, rescheduled it to buy compositions. We'll buy another 45 or 50 Russian trains, and then we'll be able to talk about the number of trains here in this document Mr. Jojic has asked. So we'll have, I hope, by the end of next year we'll have 50 trains and then we'll cover Panchevo, as much as Panchev needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65850	Any further questions? No, I don't. ) National MP Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65851	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is very brief – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia deliver the answers to the SRS interpretations delivered on July 26th and 27th? Gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 129(2), says the government is obliged to respond to the 30-day interpretation. Even we know that the Assembly of this impelation later went to the Serbian government. However, it has been three months since the government has had these interpretations in its hands and, as you say, Mr. Mrkonjic, the government is unique. Does this mean that the government is also unique in violating the Constitution? You know that interpretation is the largest or strongest democratic instrument in parliament especially in the hands of the opposition. We gave meaning to impelation, and we should have gotten those answers in time. We of the SRS believe that the government that violates the Constitution and does not respect the Constitution has thus lost both legitimacy and legality to appear in this assembly. And here we are, again asking a question, here, Mr. Mrkonjic, if you can answer, have you discussed our interpretations at the government? And why didn't we get those answers so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65852	Thank you. MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word. All I'm asking is for the service to check the functionality of the microphone. [[Disabled microphone.]] It doesn't seem to sound very good, and I give my word to Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65853	These are nice questions. Now it's really nice to be here in the Assembly. Of course, the fast traffic station as Mr. Ratkovic says is part of the second cycle of building road infrastructure in Serbia, not the second in importance, but the second in value. For the money. It is planned by March 1st to complete the project documentation which is now being done for the stock from Sapac to Ruma, only by bridge of course via Sava which is the hardest facility on that part of the road. And by the start of the summer, so by June 1st, let's start realising, let's be practical until the election, but without wanting to win the election. I hope we get them, of course. There will be a coalition. Since the construction of that traffic station has exceptional significance, it is part of a road route from Novi Sad or worse than the north of Subotica towards Loznica. There are a lot of deals with citizens on the stock from Capca to Loznica, because citizens think there should be a fast traffic station there too. Experts have shared opinions, it's not as much traffic as it would be right now, but I'm saying, I'm sure by June 1st, we're going to start realising that project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65854	Do you want an additional question? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65855	Dear MPs ask the government and the competent ministry, I asked six, seven months ago and launched crime in the Football Federation of Serbia. Then I said who will be the champion of Serbia, who will win the KUP, who will enter the Super League, how the New Market will fall into the upper rank at the green table. I said then the names of the judges who staged the games. Then I was supported by everyone, following my statement and Savo Milosevic, the government of Divac, Boban Mitrovica, who provided detailed information on the games in which he himself was an actor and former football judge, Internationalman Arsic, from Subotica and former footballer, captain of Saturday's Spartacus. I'm asking, why do you care about that? Why? Because in football clubs, boards, politicians are probably sitting, and we know that's where they are. All Serbia knows gentlemen and listen well to this, that Dragan Djordjevic, who is the vice president of the football alliance, who got out of prison 10 days ago and the president of the eastern region of Serbia's Football Federation along with Bogoljub Stepanovic, called Bogi, is the president of the football association of football judges. The two are alpha and omega match-fixing in Serbia. You both know the members of the SNS. Dragan Djordjevic, a senior SNS official, Aleksandar Vukic boasted that the results were well guessed, that he was taking a large sum of money. It is easy to take large sums of money at betting stations in Belgrade when Dragan Djordjevic and Bogoljub Stepanovic set up matches and know what will be the result. I'm asking you, and here's your last case of what happened, and no one's gonna react from the Football Federation, and I don't even know what happened to the special prosecutor, and here's the Minister of Justice. Three months ago, Srdjan Milivojevic, who is not there, was also an eyewitness, Dragana Djordjevic, a senior SNS official, kicked Trajal out of the county league in lower rank by 15,000 euros, and took the money from Slavoljub Petrovic, vice president of the Municipality of Barvarin and President Juhor Obrež, so that Juhor from Obrež, would be in the larger position of Traj. I'm asking you, give me an answer as to why the last one was cast out of the league? What's this doing at the FSS? Why are you gentlemen your President Tadic telling you what he told you? Here's the paper - football is full of crime. And Karadzic says – Tadic is right. In the end, I'm sorry I won't answer again, just another sentence. You know nine football players, all former representatives and known names were arrested in Italy yesterday. There's no one there to hear about crime. Please protect the sport in Serbia. Don't hide from the government behind these people, Karadzic, Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65856	National MP, Vice President Gordana Comic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65857	Thank you. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture, Media and Information Society, Mr. Predrag Markovic, and I will explain that with the intention I had in formulating the questions, but with one event it was presented as an explanation, which is difficult words, insults and disqualifications which I am sure I do not have to ask, Mr. Predrag Markovic, whether it is the way to communicate in the Assembly, that words that can only be spoken from moral heights that can only be said by one who thinks he can throw a stone without saying what he has done. I'm the first to make an alliance with every opposition party to criticise and control the government, but I'm the last person who thinks it's allowed to perform uglyly, to perform an effective stage play, to send any message to the government as many reasons as there are for good and real criticism. The second part of my question concerns two sublegal acts, in fact for which the Ministry of Culture is responsible as a proposer. First the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and then the Law on Cinematography, and I would like to ask you for an explanation of the public's concerns about the application of certain provisions both from one law and from another. With regard to the powers of the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights established under the Copyright and Related Rights Act and in collaboration with the OFFC and with SOKOJ and other organisations and associations, it is necessary to adopt a single tariff on special compensation for the use of sound carrier devices. There is a big dilemma about what, how, why, I suspect the ministry is neither deaf nor silent about public reactions, but it would be good if you could explain it to us quite clearly and briefly. I do not dispute, the provision under which it is to be paid, but I dispute that the Copyright and Related Rights Commission should look at a single tariff, or regulation which gives it in the power to collect to authorised organisations. The second question, as to the misunderstanding of the amount that we have established for Ratel by the Cinema Act, is that a new imposition is being introduced, a new price, a new tax, and I would ask you to also explain with the authority of a member of the Government, once again, why and in what way is the so-called agreement. a film dinar when it comes to revenues from other regulatory bodies that this assembly has also formed. With the desire to give me the opportunity to ask an additional question, and with the hope that your answer will be so clear that you will not leave me any room for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65858	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65859	We will share the answer between Mr. Obradovic because the law thus shared jurisdiction when it comes to one part of the issue. But first, I'm only going to answer because you know I'm not running away from the right answers, so I'm not going to give you a chance to be so clear that you don't ask questions. So I'm sure you'll be able to. All right, joke aside. Let's take it in a row. Of course, culture is everything, culture is expression, culture is also to mow grass by the highway. So it concerns all areas, and culture is that you don't even respond to insults, that's the first. Especially if they're badly formulated because it's rude to answer to something that basically can't be asked as a question when three ministers are sitting, and someone's asking, what are three ministers? You see that someone who doesn't know a man from a woman, probably can hardly make an adequate difference in some subtle differences, but well that all belongs to folklore, it's an immaterial legacy. We'll protect it with the law, but we can, of course, as much as the laws can protect something. When it comes to hearing that someone used the expression film dinar, so no one who's serious is going to use that term and certainly no one who does his job seriously would use such a syntagma. But once again, this is an opportunity to thank all those who participated in the adoption of this law, some have voted, some have supported, but this kind of political culture as it exists in Serbia has prevented them from voting for what they have advocated. But, my God, that changes. I am obliged to repeat what we said during the debate, we have shown, and we have made it clear because there are always fears and misunderstandings. The way cinematography is financed, all forms of production, distribution does not impose any new financial obligations on citizens or new ones on those who pay certain permits, fees, etc. according to the regulatory bodies. So no media, contrary to the solution adopted by this assembly, allows for the application of what is in most countries, which is that for the purposes of film and copyright, you additionally burden the media electronically who, of course, have to fill their programme with films, of course, do so on the impoverished market and, of course, cannot adequately pay for it. It was incorrect for us to accept that kind of intrusion, we were the other way around, we found a way to get something that had just gone over the budget so far, through the ministry to the movie. We said, you remember during the debate, we reminded that the money that travels a lot would cost him extra. Therefore, it is better to go directly to what is otherwise going on. On the other hand, one small part of the income, when it comes to Ratel, and there are no new commitments to Telecom again, no VIPs, no Telenors, only one part of what has gone into the budget so far. It has often happened that in the meantime it goes for something that one ruling majority, at that time, sees as a priority. So most in the government, not in the Assembly, define for something that money. It's kind of an emergency, then. When an urgent decision is made on something is easy to mistake or sum, or speed, or order, so it may be better to agree on something that we have all agreed on in this congregation, and which we agree is systemicly important, that it is strategically important, then it is better to get into that area. So, one small portion of the extra income. In both cases, it's about excess income, going directly, and thus providing one area, in this case cinematography. When it comes to taxes arising from the Copyright Act, today Mr. Obradovic is in the government and he will explain because this is the ministry's jurisdiction. He immediately got my support that he couldn't in any way get under three times-- if, if, if. It's like part of the questions that we've heard here -- what the government will do if someone decides to do this and if that happens and if that happens, three times if. It's a little unserious to talk, serious people don't care about that. There is one solution here that says – if someone who buys a computer and uses it as a sound carrier, if he decides to abuse it, then comes into a situation, so it is necessary to advance, when selling it separates 3% and makes a payment to one of the users. The first question is, what if he doesn't decide to deal with the piratery of the film but with the books? How's Sokoyo gonna transfer these people or some other organization? Mr. Obradovic will explain what we stand for. Anyway, there's no reason to worry about citizens who buy, first of all, computers. We will certainly find a way that there is no additional burden and this time without metaphors that are easy and sympathetic to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. In this case, the government is truly unique about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65860	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65861	Thank you to Mrs. Comic for asking and colleagues, Pedji Markovic, for the explanation he gave. Today, at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the minister responsible for the issues you have asked, I informed the Government of the fact that there are public concerns, the problem and demand of the industry, which deals with new technologies, that the amount of compensation determined by the Commission for copyright and related rights is too high in relation to the material possibilities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and presented the entire chronology of events and how to determine that compensation. I informed the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, on the one hand, we have three organisations that have one position, and on the other hand we have the Association for the Information Action of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, which, on the other hand, thinks that part of the ministry, led by Mr Markovic, is also too much. Of course, I didn't tell the government at the time, but I can tell you that we have data related to the level of compensation relating to devices related to the MP3 player, to the CD and DVD rider and everything else. The situation in countries is different, that there are countries where the compensation is the same as the one set by the Commission in Serbia, that there are countries where the fee is smaller, higher or smaller, or far smaller. There are countries where there isn't. There are countries where it's bigger and I said it was the Ministry's position. One more detail, of course, I informed the Government that according to our knowledge, the Association for the Information Action of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia has filed administrative action in the administrative dispute and that it has thus acquired legal opportunities for the Committee for Copyright and Related Rights to put the issue on the agenda. I expect that the Commission will have a hearing about the public's request to reduce that compensation, but I have also expressed the Ministry's position that I am leading, that we believe that this fee is large and that it needs to be reduced and that I will notify the Commission tomorrow. With the circumstances, we didn't even know that it would be a question that will be asked today and that this is the official position of the ministry that I run and my colleague Markovic and the others agreed on. Since it was just information, I presented it to the government, as I also said that after everything that has been done on this matter and what we as the ministry are going to take, I would also inform the government. It is our view that this fee is high and should be smaller, far smaller, and that in the years to come, when the economic potential of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is improved, then it is necessary to discuss whether this fee is so big or not. I want to say that we do not want to be past the world, we want this issue to be regulated as in other countries, because it is undeniable that it is regulated, but that the amount of compensation is compared to the economic opportunities of our citizens and the economic situation that exists in Serbia. I'm saying this for the reasons that the fees provided for in other countries, to say, different, somewhere they don't exist, somewhere they exist, are taken in relation to the power of the device that the regulation refers to, but every country objectively makes solutions and decisions that are applied to their opportunities and what it wants to achieve. We want our society to be, to say, part and European flows in this area and we want to simply apply the solutions that are with others. The ministry's position is that the fee should be lower. We will see whether the commission will respond to the government's call, in this case of a resolute ministry, since it has legal opportunity to put this issue on the agenda again, to accept the ministry's proposal. Which I sincerely hope for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65862	Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65863	Just a comment, no further questions asked. Not because you left me without opportunity, but because I believe that the clear answers you shared with us and with the citizens of Serbia are clear enough. My comment is also to you, with gratitude for understanding the need for two-way communication with people in Serbia, how necessary it is to meet your constitutional obligation as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the gratitude that a clear answer is demonstrated has been repeated as many times as it needs to be repeated, reduces problems and people think they have and that the government doesn't think they have. The best way is to at the first moment when we see that something is unclear, whether it is a single tariff or a dilemma on whether the amount provided for by the Cinematography Act is a new tax revenue or not, whether it is tax revenue at all, that at the same time clear, short, unequivocal information is shared with everyone. That's what we can all benefit from. I have no question, I'm just a commentary of this kind and I'm grateful to both of you for your willingness to give me an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65864	Thank you. Minister Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65865	In the same way, like you, you don't have a question for me, so I don't have a conversation. Please, it is a great pleasure that we have managed to establish this institute of asking questions. Once again I say, there is a folklore. I have a lot of understanding for him, but the rule is clear. National MPs are asking questions to members of the government who have to respond, when conditions exist, on the last Thursday of the month. The minister is responsible for the resort. The Prime Minister is responsible for the government. Whenever there is no possibility of asking a question to the present minister, there is no reason not to resort to a different question, the one to which it will be answered, as it normally answers parliamentary questions. Everything else is folklore. I belong to those who respect that custom, but I think it's only as serious as it is serious, the serious answer deserves. It's all like a little firecracker that, by the way, can also hurt if it's too much use before New Year's Eve. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65866	Thank you. I give my word to MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65867	Mr. Markovic, the House of MPs has been set up, but we cannot establish a government response institute. That's our problem. It is not yours to be here when the terms are obtained, all the conditions have been obtained when this Rules of Procedure was brought in, but we cannot force the Government to drag itself here and to give the MPs who voted for them the answers they would eventually want us to ask or to appoint MPs, so we tend to provoke you to say something, and we use our Rules of Procedure, though restrictive but intended rights. Because of this, a very irresponsible government relationship to this home, towards all MPs sitting here, who, unlike us, will not tell you, and I suppose they think so, should I ask Mr Mr Mrkonjic first, as he expects the victory already established in 2008, the coalition. I'm sure he knows the answer to that question. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this morning we heard a very interesting attitude from your coalition member, so I'm asking if you share their opinion that in the 1990s they led psychopaths from her president to everyone else? I ask you to give me a very specific answer as Minister of Government. I repeat, is it true that you agree with the fact said in the assembly this morning that Serbia was led by a psychopath. That's one question. The second question is also for the SPS minister, Mr Obradovic. Mr. Obradovic, you know that the SRS has on several occasions raised a very serious issue in this House, which is a question of certain political winds that have started to blow in the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality in the Pcin County and which the government in some way supports by the fact that it is indolent and independent of them. In her final presentation on the subject, the SRS raised some issues related to education. These political vampires, a few in Bosilegrad, managed to install into their mechanism a man who is the head of primary school and political marriettelu of a handful of people, who will also be Bulgarian and Serbian extremists for money, have started to use and implement the youngest, and these are our children and what is most important for one country, which is education. I'm talking specifically about George Dimitrov Elementary School and her director, Methodius Chipe. I don't know if you know that people who end up in Bosilegrad are finishing school at our state universities, above all, are being discriminated against. So, Bulgarian nationalities but dedicated and loyal to Serbia are being discriminated against above. (President: Time. I don't have time anymore. If you'd be so kind as to allow me to continue. May Mr. Mrkonjic answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65868	The term "psychopathy" is a pervasive term and is used more in classifications, a personality disorder is used. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65869	If you'll excuse me, colleague Stevanovic, I'm giving you a chance to explain your question in more detail. I hope I have the opportunity to answer, but I want to tell you something about your attitude that you need to provoke to get an answer from us. You don't have to provoke, it's enough to ask. I think we're talking in a normal tone. I'd like to make it easier for my colleague Mrkonjits to answer. Of course, he has the opportunity to answer himself, but I'm going to tell you something, any single attitude is an individual attitude, and he doesn't need to be given any meaning that he doesn't have. I'm saying this for the simple reason that the SPS of the 1990s was at different levels in a coalition with almost every political party that was then formed, so the estimated score could be true for everyone. I don't know who said it, but it doesn't need to be given meaning that it doesn't because we were at different levels back then, we organized power at different levels with different political parties. Simply, none of us would ever dare for our coalition partners to give that grade. That's where it's supposed to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65870	The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65871	I thank the Light for trying to answer a part of the question that concerns me. So, Corridor 10 has 330 kilometers, of which we worked 180 in the term of office of this government. Bridges at Beska and Gazel have been completed. The tour around Belgrade is going at a full pace. As far as my colleague Stevanovic is concerned, all tenders for the south are scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65872	I thank Mr. Mrkonjic for sticking to his style. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65873	Mr. Grouchy, since you're holding on to your style, here's what I'm gonna do with my style. I would ask you in that eruption of the success of this government to find the strength to take out a regional slope between Surdulica and Bosilegrad after seven or eight months, so that people no longer go with impromptu macadam and make a detour there. So, for six months, those who are obliged to take care of public roads can't do that, so I'd ask you, after these bridges and Corridors, to solve this small and miserable stock that's no longer than 100 or 200 meters. Mr. Beard, what's this all about? This is a very serious thing. People end up in Bulgaria, with the help of the Bulgarian state, very perfiduously within a month of college. With such diplomas they come to Bosilegrad and in elementary school they start to work as teachers, as educators, and the diplomas they get overnight in Blagojegrad, I guess, that's the information we have, nostrificing on the territory of AP Vojvodina in Serbia, it seems to me, take this with a reserve, in Sombor, I don't know which educational facility there exists, high school or higher, check everything. These diplomas and people are being certified, with respect for every trade expressed on my part and on the part of the SRS, but the clonfers become educational workers. It's a very dangerous thing. It's a dangerous thing because they can't get a chance to get people who finish colleges in Pristina, Niška, Belgrade and Kragujeva University, they're also Bulgarians, but are loyal, respected and respected by their country. If it wasn't just for us, there are school directors in Bosilegrad who are Bulgarians, I don't want to make a mistake, I think it's about the head of high school, Anton is called, but I don't know what his last name is, which is an example of a correct director, a man who respects both the law and the Constitution and his country where he lives and receives money from. There are problems about textbooks where these same political lowlifes tried to abuse and customs, to put some books in Serbia, to children who are forced to learn from 100 or 200, 300 children, 10 of them want to learn in Bulgarian, so let them be able to do so, but they must learn books that are defined by our teaching programme, not books defined by the Bulgarian teaching programme. So there are serious problems up there. We don't want to open anything bad, but I'm asking you to tell me if you're capable and ready to send an educational inspection to Bosilegrad to remove suspicions, or to see if what the people are asking us to do, to respond here, or not, as far as it is true, and how much it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65874	Minister Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65875	Since everyone's been holding on to theirs so far, my colleague Stefanovic and I, and now he's sticking to mine, because he started talking about concrete things, I answer that within 24 hours, a team of experts from the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" will be on the site, and you just give me a location where and will try to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65876	Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65877	I hope that after the end of this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you will give me concrete information. There's nothing to ask if we will or won't. I'm telling you that we're going to send an educational inspection and check all the allegations you're talking about, because we want to determine the accuracy of the views you've made. If there is an opportunity, during the work of this call of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will give you the information we have come to. Since I know that one session is planned at the end of January and early February, there will be some legislation in the field of education, there will be an opportunity to see you. But besides, you'll get that information. And we're going to check this out for diploma recognition, for possible abuse, which is a very serious thing. Otherwise, when it comes to one dimension of the question you have asked about the use of textbooks in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia proposed by the councils of minority communities, it is necessary to know that the law has prescribed that the councils of minority communities propose textbooks, but until they pass the verification of the Vojvodina Pedagogical Institute, when it comes to minority communities within the AP, or the Belgrade Institute, when it comes to minority communities in the entire Republic of Serbia, they cannot be used for the simple reason to determine whether they are in line with the curricula and the programme used in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65878	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65879	I'll do it very briefly, Mr. Minister. As for the textbooks I was talking about, you can do that in the police at the border crossing to check it out. These were interventions from the president of the municipality to the representative of KIC, because something was tried to import the country under the law and against our rules. What's our idea? We are interested in the government to start treating Serbia in a serious and political and economic way differently to the south, especially the Pcinj County, because there are major economic problems, and because of economic weakness we are not competent and adequately responding to the political challenges below. That's why the SRS is asking you and everyone who sits here to be much more responsible in next year for South Serbia, towards the Pcinj County. As for you, Mr. Mrkonjic, the location is half the way between Surdulica and Bosilegrad. It's a regional road. The slope has been on the road for months and I expect you to resolve it in the interest of the citizens, above all Bosilegrad, and then Surdulice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65880	The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65881	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank the ministers who came here today, in a way giving them one message that I think they will understand in the future. I think it's our role here to ask all the public open questions, which affect the citizens, to ministers so that we, but also citizens, can get an answer to those questions. It is a particularly sensitive issue of human health, and therefore issues related to health corruption. We are witnessing these days that this topic is open, which is good, but also that it is followed by a lot of half-truths, allegations that are without evidence, etc., which is very bad, because not only does it make people who work in health insecure, but also citizens who need to go to them also make them insecure and lose confidence in these institutions. It's even worse when one thesis is imposed on a major problem that has arisen, which is the question of obtaining vaccines for influenza and possible abuse of huge proportions when it comes to it. Then all that sensitivity becomes much more pronounced. So, citizens wonder if they are manipulated, on the one hand and on the other hand, whether the state adequately responds to protect them from any kind of abuse. In this sense, the media appeared and appeared still and somehow survived and despite some of the answers that followed, the question – did the prosecutor of organised crime stop police from raising, or investigating potential potential participants in what is now called corruption related to the procurement of vaccines? As bad as it is to suspect going down on health care, it's also bad to fall on any state institution. In that sense, I ask Justice Minister Mrs. Malovic, can she answer us to this plot that was made, that one state body asked another state authority to hide something that is of general interest to all citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65882	Minister Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65883	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for asking, and I will try to explain this situation in my answer, but, of course, throughout my answer, I will also see the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if we talk about the fight against corruption. As you know, this government has been formed on five targets. One of these five goals was to step up the fight against organised crime, crime in general and corruption. It seems to me that with every move I make, I speak for the Ministry of Justice, we strive for that purpose. You are well aware that in 2008 laws were passed in this respected home which represent a normative framework for the fight against corruption. It is sufficient to mention the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, then the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons, but also during the duration of the term of the term of office, followed by many other laws, such as the Criminal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure. Like I said, it's a normative framework. At this point we are also preparing a Strategy, the innovation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan, since the existing strategy was adopted in 2005 and to a large extent it has been overcome because it does not cover some areas, such as health care, as is your question, but also the Action Plan, which is largely fulfilled. You don't have to stand on the normative frame. It gives you a tool for further work. It should also be shown on practical examples. It is enough to say about the procedures or to specify the procedures that have been initiated during the term of office of this government, so it is enough for itself to say whether we are committed or not to combat corruption. I'll only list cases relating to health care. I've talked about it, but I don't mind saying it again. In 2009, a trial was initiated against Mojovic Goran and 31 others, two of whom are specialists in psychiatry and the head of the clinic for the VMA neuropsychiatry. In the functioning of the group, over 40 million dinars have been damaged by the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then, the procedure was also initiated against Šubarević Vladana and seven persons from whom were covered by the procedure and directors of the Institute for Mother and Child, director of KBC "Bezanijan Hair", then KBC "Stars", Home of Health "Palilu". The budget of the city of Belgrade and the KBC of Bezanijan hair has been damaged, and the damage caused by these budgets is over 57m dinars, and the property benefit they have gained is 48m dinars. This is not the end, in 2010 a procedure was launched against Borojevic Nenada and nine others. The budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged, and the property damage caused by their operation is over 859m dinars and 91m euros. Then, in 2011, an extended investigation against this group was launched. As I said, further their actions damaged the Institute of Oncology and Radiology and the damage caused by the operation is 1,929,000 dinars. Also, we have all witnessed that during September of the month and these days there has been an extension of proceedings against Svetlana Vukajlovic, as director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The Republic of Serbia's budget has been damaged and the damage is 1,270,000 euros. When all these figures I've read now translate the additions, the damage created for the budget amounts to over a billion dinars or when we translate into euro, which can be clearer, amounts to over 11m euros. So all we're talking about is the procedures that have been initiated for public procurement in health care and the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. Of course, other regular prosecutions have also initiated procedures for other crimes, concerning corruption for public procurement in other sectors. A few days ago, there was an extension of the investigation involving a person in the public company Kolubara, where several people were arrested on suspicion of harming over two million euros in their criminal activities. It can also be seen that there has been significant activity at the level of all prosecutors and statistics show that the ongoing investigations compared to 2011 have increased by 148%. So far, we've shown our activities that there are no untouchables, and these practical cases that I've cited, they're just speaking in favor of it, so the answer to your question is that no one can remain protected in any cover unrelated to whether it's an interest group or any other group. For all the evidence there is, I have no doubt it will be initiated. The prosecution's responsibility is decidently regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, their jurisdiction, but also by the jurisdiction of some other authorities involved in the lighting of criminal offences, such as police. Therefore, no one can prevent the police, but no other body, if it considers that a person has committed a crime to file a report. For my part, as justice minister, who is in charge of certain segments of the work of the judiciary, I will certainly do everything I can to make sure that we no longer have the condition we were in before the judicial reform was initiated, that criminal charges stand in the drawers. I think, as I have cited these cases, we have shown that for us the efficiency of the judiciary, but the achievement of justice is what is primary. Also, on this occasion, I would also like to emphasise all that has been seized during the application of the law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, the Directive on the management of confiscated property, which is contained in the Ministry of Justice, has received around 118 solutions on the temporary confiscation of property, suspected of stemming from a criminal offence, and these are the wave of corruption crimes. The biggest confiscation of property came during the trial against suspects in PIC Zemun's case. The Directorate owns over 35 houses, 98 apartments, more precisely manages over 35 houses, 98 apartments, 29 art paintings, two kilos of gold, 16 companies, 34 companies based on a temporary ban, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65884	I thank the minister. I give my word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65885	I can conclude that there is no basis in these media speculations that any body in that anti-corruption and organised crime chain was, so to speak, that it had grounds to suspect that it was working in accordance with the law and to enforce what was law. That's how I find it based on all this. What follows now as a question from this is that judicial reform was a huge procedure. He has faced many challenges, many risks, and many problems. We understand why the reform was made and to what extent it was necessary, why it was so deep and so comprehensive. What is now a question for all of us who have participated in the adoption of legislative acts and thus implemented and created conditions for reform, and for us now is the question – can we now be assessed, since we still have various speculations in the media, various independent experts, analysts, etc., who are constantly threatening that the current path of reform of the judiciary is something in which the end is not seen and which is not the result, so I would like that if you could answer me the question, or the additional question, can we say at what stage of judicial reform we are now? This means that the full effects of this reform will be felt quickly, so to speak, now. So based on these reports that you have now submitted to the National Assembly, we see that the effects are significant. We see that this system has suffered a serious reform in which some things that have been standing for years or even decades are now being processed. But can we say because of those who are constantly accusing us and calling us that the reform has been missed, that it doesn't produce any results, how it doesn't see an end, etc., can we say that the reform is now in the final phase, that the whole system is set up and that what the results are actually going to be the beginning of a permanent demonstration that this reform is done in a way that, as far as citizens are concerned, will respond to their needs, which is that we live in a legally regulated state, where citizens' interests are protected by law?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65886	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65887	When we started reforming the judiciary, of course we had no dilemma that it would be very difficult, that we would be faced with many challenges, that we would be faced with obstructions, with the need for certain structures to bring down judicial reform. It didn't surprise us when it happened. As far as we could, we were prepared for that moment. Before I answer your question, I think it is necessary to remind you once again of the reasons why we started reforming the judiciary, because it seems to me that this is being kind of neglected, so it is only being seen that the current situation concerning the functioning of the judiciary or the further reform of the judiciary is being implemented. When this government was formed in 2008, we faced very poor statistics, especially statistics on the perception of citizens about the state of corruption within the judiciary. According to our citizens, the judiciary was another profession of corruption. In order to deepen these analyses further, to understand whether or not this is the case, we did a series of analyses and, in particular, an analysis of the limitations of criminal prosecution, and it was found that in five years, more than 4,500 cases were outdated, that more than 550 prison sentences were imposed for example. two years of age, too, that very often in these outdated proceedings there were subjective responsibilities of judicial holders, which was later confirmed as true and what can be seen in the reasoned decisions of the High Council of the Court of Justice under the appeal, where many of them rejected the opposition precisely because they had led their activities to become obsolete. Of course, I'm talking about that crime scene. Analysis has shown that very often the same warlocks are hired by the same judges, which may lead you to suspect that there is a certain string, etc. It should be recalled that during the 1990s, Serbia's judiciary also participated in politically mounted processes that later proved to have been or were in electoral theft during 1996 and 1997. In addition to all these things, we had to access one radical cut, fully aware of what awaits us when you take such action. A general choice has been made, as a basis for further establishment of judicial reform, because the reform of the judiciary, in addition to the general choice of judicial authorities, contains several more stages, which is the phase of changing the work procedure, changing the organisation of work and what we are seeking and what we know to be the most difficult, changing the awareness of judicial holders, in order to move on to a regulated and democratic system, as exists in the EU countries, which we are seeking. I deeply believe that we will make the Serbian judiciary respectable. It's not just my hope or my belief. I have recently seen the European Court of Human Rights report and when you look at the number of performances coming from countries in the region, then you see that the number of judgments that the European Court of Human Rights has made against countries in the region, where Serbia is in the last place, are above us all other countries in the region, Croatia and BiH and Macedonia, and also Slovenia, which is an EU member, and it gives me the right to be optimistic and to believe that by the end we will complete reforms in the judiciary and make the judiciary more efficient and independent and responsible and transparent, all of what we have drawn out in the national strategy for judicial reform when it was adopted in 2006. Your question was – at what stage is it now? The finalisation of the appeal procedure by the VSS is under way. The U.S. Attorney General has done almost all the work. I expect the process to be completed by the VSS in the next month, month and a half. Of course, those who are dissatisfied have the right to appeal to the Serbian Constitutional Court. Some of them did. In the afternoon discussion, it was stated that judges and prosecutors who had not been elected, who had submitted the talks, did not get decisions. That's not true. In almost all cases where the VSS has made a decision, it has been written and forwarded to their applicants. Of course, the reform of the judiciary is going in the right direction, not only is it not my opinion and it is enough to say that it has also been established in the European Commission report, which is made up of Serbia's EU accession bid and only some parts of the report, which is exhausted and large and almost all segments include, but for the sake of the public, I think it is necessary to point out, because I see lately that some have been trying to devalue the report and say that it is not true, that there is another. So this is an official report on the European Commission's website. The report found that the legal and institutional framework for the rule of law in Serbia, including the fight against corruption and organised crime, was improved, especially after significant judicial reform, the establishment of a Anti-Corruption Agency, a step in international co-operation in criminal matters. This led to the first results. The main challenges remain in the area of justice, the fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime. In particular, it remains to build a proactive approach in the fight against corruption that would lead to reliable monitoring of the ongoing investigations and judicial trials, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65888	National Parliament of Hope Kolundji, two minutes of comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65889	I want to thank all the ministers who are here today and to express my confidence that the ministers, understanding the importance of building an institution of parliament and the institutions of parliamentary affairs, will come to these sessions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65890	And we all join in the justified hope of the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundjia. The word for the first three minutes, MP Petar Jojic, followed by the folk ambassador Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65891	I would ask Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that I had not been able to understand his answer enough before, when he answered my colleague's question, previously concerning those questions that my colleague had previously asked. But I point out that these days there has been a reduction in the course and departures of Beovoz from Belgrade to Panchev and vice versa, from 18 departures to only eight. Since this issue is also very important for the citizens of Panchev, because thousands and thousands of workers, students, students and other citizens travel from Panchev to Belgrade, I ask the question – why is it denied for the citizens of Panchev to use Beovoz, since it is known that Panchevo, above all, was the area of Belgrade and Zemun. I would ask Minister Mrkonjic, given that we spoke about this last year and that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic contributed to covering the line in a sufficient number of departures, and these departures were 18, now Beovoz traffic to the Pančeva Bridge. I spoke to a colleague. He says in a joke, that's the limit. I'm not getting into that, and I don't think that was appropriate, which he told me, but it's a matter of state and political nature. So, the citizens of Pancheva, given the huge number, is the city from which most citizens come from inside Belgrade daily, that the citizens of Panchev are sent to Belgrade in thousands and thousands of days, staying in Belgrade and working and studying and learning. I think Mr. Mrkonjic is able to resolve this issue, as he resolved last year. Belgrade's railway is blackmailing the town of Pancevo, asking the city of Panceva to pay 200m dinars. Please, if the Government wants, let it take a debt that only Petrochemy owes, which is a publicly owned company owned by the government of Serbia, let those debts be beaten, but I don't think it's okay, because the economic account from the Railways of Belgrade is that this train has an economic account and that the citizens of Pancheva have a need and the Railways have an economic account, so please, the citizens of Pancheva, and the committees whose committee I am in the City Assembly asked me to ask you a question. On the other hand, I'm today, Mr. Gristle... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... and handed over the written conclusion of the City Hall, so please help the Pancians.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65892	The word has a minister, Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65893	Thank you, Dr. Jojic. I tried to get through that answer to Mr. Mikovic to say this question, but let me repeat it now. It is true that the reduction was made from 18 to eight departures. It is not true that it has anything to do with the money required by the Railways of the city of Pancheva. The railroad is in a difficult situation, but it looks like a state railway, and that's why it's not true. The second question is to prepare for the realization of the second track that is now starting to prepare, and it is likely to start on March 1st, from Belgrade to Panchev, the total value of the work of about 45 million, where the expropriation is now being done, the preparations are being done for the start of the work, the first part of the Russian loan that we have just devoted to the railway, to confirm what Mr Jojic is talking about. The importance of the railway from Belgrade to Panchev is exceptional. We'll try to figure out what's going on tomorrow, whether it takes 18 or not, I can't tell you today. We'll see what it is, but I certainly promise that we will solve this issue and that the number of departures from Belgrade and Panchev will be greater. Of course, the train will no longer go to the border and it does not go for political reasons, to be clear, it is probably going for some technical and professional reasons until then, it will continue to go to Panchev. Once again, I underline, from all this communication, I am back to 1999-2000 when we were doing the highway precisely because of this, in the most difficult conditions, since the road to Panchev is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65894	National MP Petar Jojic, three minutes for further questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65895	Mr. Secretary, I've made this announcement and this information that the railroad requested 200 million from Panchev, found out from the mayor. I now publicly declare this, let Mrs Vesna Martinovic, as mayor of Pancheva, hear the citizens of Pancheva, say that Željeznica requested 200 million participations in the reconstruction of the railway. Please, if they lied to me, from the city administration, then I'm lying to you. But I believe what you promise, because I'm sure and what you promised Mr. Stevanović that tomorrow you'll already have your team on the ground. It is proof that the minister should solve citizens' problems, not just politics. That's what's important and I appreciate it. One more question, if you'll allow me, Madam Chairman, for the minister of justice. I would ask the Minister of Justice, Mrs Malovic, to tell me and answer the question – when will the election of the President of the Court be completed, given that the deadline has expired, and this is part of the judicial reform? When will the election of the President of the Court be completed?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65896	Does the Minister of Justice want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Snezana Malović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65897	As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, and not as someone who is competent to decide on the Presidents of the Court, I am one of the 11 members of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, and I present these facts, given that in the first part of the day the Minister is told that it is the one who decides on the Presidents of the Court. I know you know that, but simply because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to point out that. The trial is under way to process candidates' applications for the presidents of the courts. A competition that lasted until a certain date was recently launched. As I said, the processing of applications is under way, and I expect that after New Year's Eve talks with candidates for the presidents of the courts will begin. They are also obliged that all those who claim to be on those posts to propose a specific work plan of the courts. I think that's pretty good because you can see, in fact, their intensity, in which they think it can be managed by a particular court. After that, of course, the decision will be made by the High Council of the judiciary and forwarded to the National Assembly, as the last instance to decide on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65898	National MP Petar Jojic, two minutes to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65899	I'm asking a further question to Mrs. Malovic. Since I didn't understand today, there was no talk about when we talked about those parts and the set of judicial laws, given the possibility of blocking the attorney's office, that he wouldn't give unless the payments and debts were made to lawyers under official duty, the government owed, or the justice ministry, as far as I know, great funds, but we don't know how much these funds are. Is there any chance you could tell us? Lawyers from the bar are interested, given that for years, they say, they owe it to lawyers. First, how much is owed and is there any possibility, Mrs Malovic, that these debts are settled in that part, that with the Tax Administration and the Income Administration, the issue of these debts owed by lawyers and owed by the government, or the Ministry of Lawyers? Now there's a chance that there's a debt beating, because one problem would be solved and the judiciary wouldn't get into a situation where there's a blockade and people refuse to defend by official duty because no one pays them. Please, if you can answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65900	National MP, you have now used two minutes to comment and there is no possibility that any of the ministers will be given a word, since the MPs must be the last. So please take a look at the Rules of Procedure. You had three minutes to ask a question, said Minister Mrkonjic. Then you received three minutes to ask an additional question and comment, then was answered by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Then the MP gets two minutes for a general comment, after which no minister can get a word. Please, so there is no confusion as to why Minister Snezana Malovic does not get the word. National MP Nenad Canak has his word, for the first three minutes, and after that, MP Sheriff Hamzagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65901	I would ask a few questions, however, I am uncomfortablely surprised by the fact that there are no ministers here to address these questions, because I asked the Minister of the Interior a few months ago – how is it possible that in the secular state of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior has Christian glory? I didn't get any answers. I reiterated the question of Parliament's president, who told me she didn't get an answer either, and that the issue would repeat to the competent ministry. I am asking the question again and I am supplementing it with a question – how long will certain ministers ignore this country's parliament? The second question for the minister of justice is – are the appearances of engineer Mrkonjic, where he seeks the release of the convicted, the pressure on an independent judiciary? This, of course, is about Radet Markovic, Michal Kertes and Dragoljub Milovanovic, who are justly convicted of crimes at Ibarska Masteral and the murder of Ivan Stambolic. So is this an attack on an independent judiciary? Furthermore, I also have a question for Minister Dulic. Storage of nuclear waste in Serbia is a topic that causes many dilemmas because there are rumors that nuclear waste is stored inadequately and that even nuclear waste is imported and stored in Serbia's territory, endangering the health of Serbian citizens. Given that, according to the knowledge I received from you, something like that is forbidden, how is it possible that a nuclear waste storage company is making about a quarter of its income from external trade arrangements? What are these arrangements, and what is this really about? I would also like the government's authority to explain to me how it is possible that, I'm sorry that it is not here that the prime minister of finance and the customs office is delivering to agencies called "PI", "OFPS" and "SOKOJ", customs documents on importing IT equipment, which are otherwise the business secrets of every company involved in this business? To start this far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65902	Thank you. Justice Minister Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65903	As Minister of Justice, I do indeed believe and stick to the fact that all those actions that are under way are not to be commented and that they should be left to the judicial authorities to decide on this, especially in the case of criminal proceedings. It's just that I agree with you that any speech or discussion of a particular case, which is not legally completed, can have a different connotation. Unlike some of the previous times, when even politically mounted processes took place in Serbia and when some persons were unjustly in prison, such a situation can no longer happen and that is something that I think is one of the prides of the work of the judiciary. Speaking of the statements made by Minister Mrkonjic, my esteemed colleague, I think he explained enough in public why he said it. It is certainly the persons who are on the right to maintain the sentence for which they were sentenced, both Milanovic and Markovic, are in the same place they were in in 2008 when we took over the responsibility of managing certain sectors within the government of the Republic of Serbia. For them to be released, there is one legal procedure. In these cases, if it's a judicial verdict, it's just a pardon institute. But now I speak as a citizen of Serbia and as a lawyer, not as a minister of justice, I really believe that in these concrete cases it will not and cannot come.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65904	Minister Oliver Dulic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65905	Thanks for asking. I think it's always good to have the dilemmas that exist in public sort of resolved. Parliament is a good place for this. Of course, we are all witnessing the fact that our public very often on news that could cause a certain kind of disturbance, reacts, among other things, because of the claims of unprofessional people who appear in the media, and very often it is a matter of day-to-day policy, so we have had the opportunity to hear about nuclear waste and generally dangerous waste in Serbia. Many even MPs or representatives of political parties declare things that absolutely do not stand. First, under the Law on protection against ionic radiation, as well as under the Waste Management Act, it is absolutely forbidden to import hazardous waste or any other waste containing the characteristics of nuclear waste. We as a country belong to the order of those countries, and they are the vast majority of them in the world, where it is forbidden to import any kind of waste that can endanger the environment, or human health, especially if there are no adequate facilities in which this waste is processed, which is the case with our country. When we talk about nuclear waste, I must immediately say that this is some sort of shared jurisdiction, that the Ministry of Science is responsible for the Vincha Institute. As far as the ionising radiation agency is concerned, jurisdiction has been shared between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Science. I'd give you information very briefly. As you know, the Vinca Institute has been there for many decades, it has been formed and created as an institute that would then deal with a very current issue of nuclear programs that countries of the 50s have formed in their territories. Yugoslavia was one of the countries that was extremely active in researching nuclear sciences. The Vinca Institute, among other things, was a place where nuclear waste was collected coming from the territory of the entire Yugoslavia. Somewhere at this point, or until a new warehouse was built, in an old warehouse it was stored in a completely unconditional manner about 3,000 cubic cc's of nuclear waste. In addition, nuclear waste that was used in experiments during the former Yugoslavia, 13 kilograms of spent nuclear fuel with highly enriched uranium and about 2.5 tonnes of spent nuclear fuel with low-rich uranium, which was transported very efficiently to the country of origin during the past year, which was Russia, since it was imported from the Soviet Union in the 60s or 70s, I'm not sure. So the new warehouse built in accordance with international standards was built out of the funds that this country received, worth 2.5m euros, that it had just served in a safe and secure way to store the waste that remained from the time of the former Yugoslavia or that waste generated in the territories of our country every year. I mean, somewhere between a few dozen and a few hundred cc's of nuclear waste is generated every year in Serbia's territory. Where do these junk come from? First of all, they come from health institutions, then from industry, come from some scientific and research experiments that are being carried out. I want to tell our citizens, a small number of them know that nuclear waste, for example, parts of the thunderbolts that were replaced in the meantime, fire alarms, many of the things we have in our environment, are treated like nuclear waste. Everything that's been collected is being collected, this time since the new warehouse opened, stored in a safe and secure manner. It will continue to be stored in the future. So we just got a place where in a safe and safe way we store that waste that's generated in our territory. Since there were doubts that we would become a country that would now import nuclear waste, that absolutely is out of the question. We have regular controls on the ionizing radiation agency, as well as customs services, the MUP and all competent services when it comes to preventing the transport of potential nuclear waste through our country without adequate paperwork. It's all something that's defined, and it's kind of being run through extremely strict international directives. So all those transports entering our country's territory, passing through our territory, are measured, among other things, by ionizing radiation. It happens that our competent authorities at the border return burdens that eventually show that there are any increases in radiation, just to protect our population. Very often you can hear the composition coming back, especially with construction iron, with different kinds of metals that are used for transport, coming back from our border, so they don't pass through our territory, which possibly have elevated ionic radiation. So at this point we're equipped as a country to fight it. I also want to say that, thanks to one project made by the Ministry of Environment, we have an established early monitoring network of any kind of nuclear-accessor, or radiation measurements on the territory of our entire country. We can know at any moment if there was any increase in that, we would know for sure that there are any emitters, or sources of ionizing radiation on our country's territory. All in all, with this warehouse we've got an adequate space. I repeat, it is absolutely forbidden to import any type of waste that belongs to the category of nuclear waste. That's how, I'm sure, it'll be in the future. I have to mention from this place, there's no reason to worry or upset our public about the fact that we've finished another of the many jobs we have to finish when it comes to the management of hazardous waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65906	Does National MP Nenad Canak want to use three minutes for an additional question?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65907	I'm still not the answer to any of the other questions. The first question was whether this was a pressure on an independent judiciary, yes or no? This is where I asked what the foreign trade income from this company came from. Those were my questions. From whom and when will I get an answer as to how it is possible for the secular state of the Ministry of State to have fame and how is it possible that in the secular state, the pension-invalid security of the state pays, if it already pays the priests, only the priests of a church, which is the SPC? How is that possible? I'm also interested in how it is possible, and who should I ask in the first place that the IPR Commission should declare to these three organisations, agencies, the right to interpret: OFPS and SOKOJ, the right to directly declare anything that comes to mind what has to do with their activity? I'm talking about photocopiers, scanners and other A.I. productions that have nothing to do with the agency business I was talking about. So I have no one to ask because I don't see ministers here who would answer me. I appreciate your answer. I'd like it to be a little more specific. I would very much like the ministers who are not present to remind themselves that they have become ministers and who voted for them to be ministers and the responsibilities they have towards the citizens of this country, represented by MPs sitting in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65908	Minister Zarko Obradovic, answers the additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65909	Mr. Canak, if you'll excuse me, I'll try to answer some of the questions you've asked, and one of these concerns directly to the ministry where I'm headed, and it's about the matter of compensation. I would like to say that I would be happy to deliver to you, if you have previously thought about the nuclear facilities of Serbia, I will provide you in writing, given that I do not know all business data at this time. I'd be happy to provide you with anything related to the way you do business, if you agree, until the New Year's and Christmas holidays pass, since the Assembly won't. I'll see you at the end of January, I hope in this conference, but I'll make sure you get that document before, regarding, as you say, foreign trade. The question is about the music fee, which was asked by your colleague and my colleague Mrs. Komic before, and I explained. It is about a procedure set out in the law, which the Assembly voted for and which was adopted several years ago. The law very detailedly lays down the procedure for determining the compensation. I informed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we had a situation where the three organisations on the one hand were determined at the level of the compensation that the other party in this case was not satisfied with this position, that it had a completely different opinion on the contrary, i.e. a position for the Association for the Information Action of the Republic of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. That the Committee for Copyright and Related Rights had the Governments of the Republic of Serbia, that a commission without a president who later resigned had made the decision. Today I informed the Government of all this and mentioned what appears to be a problem in public and I said, "Here, I will repeat, since the other MPs have heard, I want you to know that a lawsuit has been initiated by a administrative dispute which created the legal basis for the commission to put the issue back on the agenda. The government's stance, the Ministry of Education and Science's view, that the compensation must be appropriated to the economic opportunities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should be less than prescribed. Because experience is empty from country to country somewhere this fee is smaller, somewhere larger, somewhere it doesn't exist, somewhere it's determined by percentages, somewhere it's defined nominally relative to currency, because the number of imported copies that are the basis of that fee. The position of the Ministry of Education and Science, which is today and supported by the Government, is that the Commission should reconsider the issue of compensation and make the compensation smaller, i.e. to be suited to economic opportunities, and in some better, economically better time to make it possible to be different, because let's not bring the industry to ruin, to be threatened, or to impose on citizens a burden that they don't need. Respecting also the practice of European countries, i.e. the experience in this area and the legal solutions that exist there, but legal solutions apply to our economic situation. Mr. Markovic and he spoke about it, the other fellow ministers, there was no between us to say disagreement there is a unique position that this decision that the commission should change that decision to revise and make the fee far less. Now, the commission is autonomous, we'll see what they do about it. As Minister tomorrow, I'll send a letter to you today and inform the government, and then, compared to the situation that exists, we'll react further. Our view is that compensation should be less so. appropriate to the opportunities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to consumers in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65910	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65911	Thank you very much. I understand the question of course, you will get an answer from Serbia's nuclear facilities to answer that, or the Vinca Institute. I suppose these revenues essentially come from being one of the few legal entities that have the right to import all these substances containing radioactive substances, which are later used in scientific experiments or for medical purposes. I guess, then, that's the income that exists in any case that I can tell everyone these incomes from foreign-economic trade don't come from us importing any nuclear waste and stockpiling in Vinci. Since I'm going to say it again, as long as it takes, it's not possible under the law, it's strictly forbidden. It is impossible for countries through which this waste could possibly come, you are transporting it without the public of those countries and the legal institutions of those countries being raised. So the overall movement of radioactive waste across Europe is strictly controlled under very strict and international conventions, and it is not possible for someone to imagine Serbia becoming a nuclear waste dump because someone wanted to, especially because we, too, are countries that have extremely strict legislation when it comes to the matter. In any case, a concrete answer will be sent in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65912	Minister Zarko Obradovic, just to add to his answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65913	I wanted to, let me say one more thing to Mr. Cank, I hope he doesn't mind me saying sentence two in the defense of my fellow Deputy Prime Minister and Vice President and Minister of the Ministry of Interior Mr. Dacic, if he resents me again, I won't be angry. It's about the glory you mentioned, it's about objectively found ordinary norms. He simply found such a situation and really asked the question that you have asked, and he is not the only one who has to answer that question, since fame is not happening and is not celebrating in the MUP, but in the numerous institutions of this country and the question is not only about one ministry but it is much wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65914	Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65915	So, just so we don't get to the bottom of it. Not because of you, you weren't when we were answering for the first time for the citizens and for the people who are interested in this kind of imposition that we were talking about today. In the meantime, if only there were no misunderstandings, no 3% would be charged in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65916	Mr. Canak, you're entitled to two minutes, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65917	Every minute I have the opportunity to speak to the government is precious, so I'd like to take advantage of them all. I've never had a chance to hear such an exhaustive and precise explanation. All in all, it would be very interesting if the ownership structure of these agencies we talked about was published, because this would remove suspicion of private interests. Because it's absolutely unacceptable for the state to let practically private organizations get in the way of state range in the way I've described it. It should not be forgotten that no country, after 50 seats per gross national income, has the obligation. Serbia, don't forget, is, unfortunately, 89th on the list of states. That is why I think that this should be taken into account and that once again I remind the government must give answers to parliamentary questions. You're absolutely right, not only with the MUP issue, Christian glory is a family custom in Orthodox families, and it's not a state holiday. It is precisely because of the decline in the daily policy, the state found by Minister Dacic and the situation found by people in public companies celebrating fame that has seen the state of the gap in the past that must be broken. I believe you as socialists will fully agree with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65918	Ministers can't follow MPs, therefore the last is Mr Chank. The word has the People's MP Sherich Hamzagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65919	I thank the president. My parliamentary question has been addressed to Minister Mrkonjic, as regards the parliamentary issue asked 21. Nine this year. It is related to the road route Novi Pazar – Tutin. In fact, this road section is completely devastated, with countless impact holes, hatches, narrowings, slides. It's 30 miles long, and it travels for an hour by means of a passenger vehicle. Freight vehicle and two hours. This municipality is connected not only to the neighbouring town and to Pazar this way, but also to the rest of Serbia and the general world. Just to point out, there were absolutely no investments in our municipality, no domestic or foreign investors. It's all about the bad road infrastructure again. To Tutin and Sandzak and within Sandzak and within our municipality. To point out again, our municipality is one of the most underdeveloped with incredibly 77% unemployment and multiplely low gross national income, with a mass of unemployed, without any production plants. All this would not have been strange if we had not received a promise from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that this route would begin to work in the autumn, that the road route of Novi Pazar – Sjenica. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was visiting this summer in Novi Pazar and said he will soon begin work on the master's road Novi Pazar – Sjenica. Immediately afterwards on the regional road route Novi Pazar – Tutin. I don't blame Mr. Mrkonjic for those words and I believe they will be. But our citizens want the right answer, when, because that's what we've been talking about for years. Let me just mention that the Tutinian municipality didn't even have drinking water. The former NIP ministry had an understanding and defined some of the funds and will soon get Tutin drinking water. However, this road route is also a disgrace to bring one municipality together with the rest of Serbia. Anyone who traveled that way saw that he was completely devastated and didn't deserve 36,000 people, because it was their only choice with the world and with the rest of this republic. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65920	Minister Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65921	It's quite true what Mr. MP says, it's only true that it's not working on the road from Sjenica or let's go the other way from Novi Pazar to Sjenica. As far as I have information back then when we were at the opening of that road, that was last fall, well doesn't matter in September, October of the month, that's when the works started. The papers are run by the New Market Road Company, if anything's changed in the meantime, I don't know. I'll admit that. As for the road from Tutin to Pazar, he entered the project for next year. Why? Because there's a lot of trouble with the New Market bypass, you know that. Because local self-government is unable to address the issue of expropriation in Novi Pazar. It's part of the problem about the trip from New Market to the Shadows up there, where they're the big curves. The issue must be resolved not only by local self-government but must be resolved along with local self-government by the government of the Republic of Serbia. So they've dragged us a lot, to be honest, around investing Turkish capital in that part of the road. Enough. Then this summer, we cut it off and we said we're going to use some of the European loan somewhere around $30 million, I think there are, for those heavy curves at work between Sjenica and Novi Pazar, and these two other shares we're going to do with our own resources. I have to say that part of the worse road than the Shadow is over. So, after all, that road is relatively good. Another question I avoid talking about, not because I'm afraid of choices, can't go where there aren't more than a thousand vehicles to go with asphalt Augustes. We can't. We've been putting asphalts everywhere we can imagine, by local self-government. That's not the answer. We've got a lot of trouble with local self-government, because everybody wants to get asphalt. I remind you, in Finland, which is the most developed country in that part of Europe, and not only in that part of Europe, but also in the world, there are not as many asphalt Augustes as there are in us. That was the question you were just talking about. Thus, the road of Tutin – Novi Pazar will go safely from the spring, but before that we must complete the bypass around Novi Pazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65922	Thank you. Mr. Hamzagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65923	In order to only specify, this project for this route is not done. First, we need to know when the project will be done. Local self-government says the CIP won't do it, or there's no will to do it, as well as the government. On the other hand, we hear that local self-government is either taking away land and property relations or someone else is doing it again. So something should come from something.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65924	Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65925	You're absolutely right about the project. What has been contentious and what we have been concerned about for more than two years, and the NIP Ministry and infrastructure together with Turkish representatives of three Turkish firms over what level of the project should be working on. Whether it was going to be a highway, whether it was going to be halfway, and there were even words to make it a highway. That's exactly why the projectors didn't know what to do. Now we've defined it completely. These will be the roads of the front row, and Novi Pazar – Tutin and Sjenica – Novi Pazar. It will be the first row roads with an extended August, where possible, with the serpentids that we will try to solve with the $30 million, and everything else will give budgets. That's the final deal. It was this summer, as you say last fall, when we were there and agreed with Mr. Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65926	Thank you. National MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, has just initiated me to discuss Minister Dulic a little bit. I must say, when he mentioned dangerous and harmless waste, to say something that is historically happening in the Republic of Serbia and what is the first time in the region, in an environment, in Europe that the Dulic's ministry has allocated to the opening of recycling centres to the Roma community. We all know that the situation is economic, social and other very difficult, but this is the first minister in the state, in the Republic of Serbia to know it, respecting all the rules and signed international decade and strategy of the Government of Serbia. It is the first man to allow the Roma community to get a job and partly get out of a very difficult economic and social situation, because we cannot integrate in society unless we do, we have no income, we cannot educate children, and that is exactly what Minister Dulic and the Environment Fund did. Mr. Minister, I want to thank you, I've informed as president of the World Roma Organization, 35 countries in the world, what you've done. It is a precedent and the Roma community, especially in Serbia and the whole world, owes you great gratitude. The World Roma organization has decided to sign this contract soon to award you the world's greatest recognition of what you've done for the Roma community. We have visited 26 cities in Serbia, surveyed 4,500 businesses, individual small and medium-sized enterprises, and we have insight into all of Serbia what happens to harmless waste. I'll give you just one piece of information. In Belgrade, 2000 tonnes of cardboard are collected monthly. Imagine if it went to the dump, it would be a collapse. However, these recycling centres do not burden the dumps, to separate the "meth bar five" harmless waste and to move on to preparation, to recycling where we will get finished raw materials. I hope the other ministers, as Mr Dulic and his ministry, will support this project... (President: Time. I'm done. ... and make it possible, because we are now opening recycling centres in Old Paz, in Alexinac, in Nis and Vladino Han. We need to open up another 22 recycling centers. I expect that this will be achieved and will allow for cleaner Serbia, parks, lakes and healthier citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65928	Thank you. The word has a Minister Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65929	Thank you for these kind words. I think it was a duty. To be honest, informal collectors of secondary raw materials coming from the ranks of the Roma community exist in all cities. They should have been helped, especially in a situation where the state exposes the mechanisms to put waste management under one framework in line with European standards. All the time I've been saying that there's waste management in the green economy. One of the most powerful parts of the green economy is in many thousands of jobs, and I am glad that we are able to integrate the Roma community into legal work that will be done together with municipal enterprises, under the state authority and the Roma Association to provide these Roma families with stable sources of income, to provide them with socio-health insurance, to provide education for their children, and all of this is an integral part of the policy that this government has implemented. This is where we found a good angle to help these people. We'll keep doing it. Thank you for your cooperation, and I hope in the end we can make a few thousand people happy through these recycling centers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65930	I give my word to Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a few questions, especially the Minister of Culture, what has he done since he came to the head of the Ministry of Culture for the protection of Serbian cultural heritage in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? I would also like to ask another question – how would the Ministers who are now in the Government feel if the regulation, which they voted on on freedom of movement, were also valid for those same ministers who voted in the regulation, that by any chance some of these ministers from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as I am and like 130,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Do you know that even today and tomorrow Serbs can drive their cars with plates Serbian in Kosovo and Metohija? As early as January 1st, they will have to hand these same tables over to the Quasi-Hyptarian state in order to give them the tables that you have managed to provide, provided that we can choose whether it will be the RK or the RKS tables and that we move through Kosovo and through Serbia with these tables. Normally, to get that traffic license, I'm telling you, you have to hand over the plates of Serbia to the Shiptars in your hands, and they'll give you their plates. On the other hand, in order to operate that vehicle, you need to remove the driver's license as well. In order for you to take it out, you have to take out a citizenship where it doesn't say you're a Serb, but it says you're a Kosovar, and then you have to pay all the taxes, taxes that should naturally be paid to that new state, which you advocate and convince Serbs to do so with those moves. How would you gentlemen feel if you had to do it, as the 100,000 Serbs have to work these days in the space of Kosovo and Metohija? On the other hand, gentlemen, the free movement and crossing over the administrative line, according to representatives of the Serbs or the border line, according to Cooper and how the Cypriots say in Kosovo, must be paid. Then you say the state has nothing to do with it. There is nothing in power, you have nothing here that sits in Belgrade, but there is a state because the people are states, and that people must pay, or enter or exit, an appropriate fee. He begged me if he could answer my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65932	Minister Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65933	Thank you. Mr Kragovic, it would not be correct for me to answer what I have done to protect our heritage, you have primarily asked that, the cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't need a ministry for that, as you know. What I did and what I did, I suppose the results are familiar to you, but what the Ministry did in the meantime only during this period, with great pleasure, I can say that all of our cultural institutions, which are competent, have managed to cooperate with other resolutions, are the results you know. First, after trying to rename our heritage, first of all I am talking about the one on the UNESCO list, we have succeeded in working together, so people from our cultural institutions, representatives of the National Council for UNESCO and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have jointly succeeded in stopping, then we have received confirmation in this case myself and President Tadic in talks with Mrs Bokov, Director General of UNESCO here in Belgrade. At my meeting four days later with the Minister of Culture of France, Mr. Mitteran, I received an apology because it is not in the direct jurisdiction of this ministry, as with us it is probably not in the direct jurisdiction of those who vote on the UNESCO delegation, but I have received a question, answer and a guarantee that the definition that we all stand for together as a country in which the people live because, probably, it was a lapus, surely a nation is not a state, the people are a little wider term, so under the name under which we do not only apply ourselves, we are not talking about our heritage, under the name under which a monument is entered on the UNESCO list, under that name must be run. There's no change. First we got guarantees, and then we got, you know, probably, I believe you're satisfied, like all those who really care about the preservation of our heritage, the support in the best possible way. In the first round, Serbia, for the first time one country in this region, has been elected to the UNESCO Committee, so that now we will not only participate in defining and protecting, but also in making lists and putting on a tantamount list of future monuments not only from the region but from around the world. All those who are seriously following this area know that it is as if you would get the opportunity to play in the eighth World Cup in football all the time, because the mandate of this committee is far longer than the mandate of each government, it is six years. So, we have provided, conditionally speaking, one permanent protection or at least one medium-term guarantee that we will be able to represent ourselves as a state and not from yesterday and not just about Kosovo and Metohija. It's from the point of view of basic results. Perhaps what we did as a result is much nicer, again I say, the Ministry and the Institute of Culture because my position from the beginning was that it was crucial of all jobs, the priority of all jobs of the Ministry of Culture first protection and preservation of heritage. If you are unable to keep what you inherited, it is pointless to expect you to get the money to invest in something new, and you will waste it too. So we all have to learn that together. In previous years, we were able to present Serbia as a land of frescoes. What is indisputable, world-renowned value to represent in the world when in Florence, in the Santa Kroche Basilica, we had to extend because of the great interest of this exhibition in June, we received an invitation to be first by Italian experts, and they are the largest in the area of conservation, you know how many monuments they keep. So we've been asked to visit the monasteries where the frescoes are located. At that time, many of them changed their mind on the way in which this inheritance should be preserved. Some of them are from Florence right now. We've been given the opportunity to organize a constant setting now. As you know, on November 29th, I opened this constant position at the Santa Kroche Basilica, and on that occasion we received an official recognition that our frescoes preceded the Renaissance in Italy and that just the masters who worked on them had apparently crossed the sea, had a major impact on Djot. So we've provided the best possible way for others to defend our heritage now. It's in the shortest part of what's been done. I must say, since we said it was culture, culture is also mutual respect. It's not an expression of respect that I'm responsible for something that neither my portfolio nor any of you expect is my responsibility. That's how I respect you, too, because I expect voters, whatever parties, that when they want to know if there's bread, they're not going to ask the vulcanizer, they're going to ask the baker. In addition to that, as you know, it is a folklore, it is an immaterial heritage, which I said to Mrs. Komic when she asked such a similar question, but I think it is irresponsible for voters to ask irresponsible questions. That means you don't want to get an answer. I do not think of you personally, certainly, but in principle it is not done, which only abuses the institution of parliamentary issues for which I am proud to have established it in 2006 by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65934	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65935	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, ministers, I wanted to ask Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic about the jubilee awards, since I also worked as a teacher at school and I get constant questions from my colleagues to resolve the dilemma of whether Belgrade just won, did they transfer funds to local self-government and give me a short answer when they will receive the funds they deserve?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65936	Minister Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65937	Mr. Jugovic, thank you for asking. Here, answer. Thanks to the law passed by this National Assembly, that is you, local self - government revenues have been increased since October. Why am I saying this? So as not to make a mistake in public. The payment of jubilee awards is an obligation of local self-government, with increased revenues they should pay the jubilee prizes. If by chance some local self-government has not increased its income by applying the law adopted by the Assembly, then they should report to the finance ministry and resolve the Gordi knot, and those local self-governments that have increased revenues need local ones, they should pay jubilee awards. So far, according to data presented today by the Education Union, more than 50% of local self-government in Serbia has paid jubilee awards. Here is only one fundamental question – do local self-governments possibly have no money, and then the address of the Ministry of Finance or did they spend that money for other purposes? I also ask the presidents of the union and the mayors to hold talks and resolve the dilemma and doubt whether he has or has no money. If there's money, and the vast majority have, the jubilee prizes pay off, and they won't report to the finance ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65938	The moment of my negligence has made it impossible for Mr Ljubomir Kragovic to use his two more minutes. I'm giving the MP two more minutes to comment, and I have information that the clock is in a bit of a hurry, so we fit in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65939	Thanks, I'm just entitled to three minutes, then another two minutes, if there's an answer. Obviously, we won't hear from each other, we're in a hurry to announce our budget and go home. But you will go home and you will be able to celebrate, and what are we going to do that goes to Kim's space, to cry, to complain and complain about the fate that this government gives us, the way it is and that pushes us into the embrace of Hashim Thaci? I asked you, Mr. Minister, because you don't want questions – what, how and where, but I asked you specifically what you've done since you got here? I appreciate that, but you've only told me what you've been doing internationally. Be assured that 99% of this will be a waste of business and will fool you. Remember, and then they came to secure peace and prosperity in Kosovo, so only during their term of office did they manage to allow over a thousand Serbs to be killed and to kidnap over a thousand Serbs, to destroy more than 150 monasteries during their term, during the same group of people who are now promising to protect that cultural heritage in the area of KIM. Today, questions were raised from one MP and asked for the protection of constitutionality for some of the procedures required to be organised by some people. I would also like to take this opportunity and ask myself to protect the constitutionality and legality of this regulation that you gentlemen voted last Thursday, which refers to allegedly some freedom of movement in KIM space. I'm taking this opportunity, too, if he has the right of an MP who belongs to the majority to seek the protection of constitutionality and legality, then I guess I have the right to seek the protection of constitutionality...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65940	Thank you. Since it's 1900 hours, I'm finishing today's work. Before I do that, allow me on behalf of the MPs present to ministers and other members of the government who are not here to thank for their cooperation and to wish on behalf of all MPs a happy New Year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65941	Here, I have asked the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that both us, Snow White, Predrag, Oliver, Mrki and me, may, behold, I will use the Rules of Procedure to, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of you present MPs, regardless of whether it is the congregation majority or minority, to congratulate the New Year, the Christmas holidays, and those who were both those who came and wish you all good health.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-29-0.u65942	I thank the ministers. Since there's no longer a chance of continuing to work, I'm finishing today's work. I remind you that we agreed to approach the vote at 7:07 p.m. I ask the members of the European Integrations Committee to be in the O.R. and to finish their work and come to our plenary hall. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the agenda points of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 BUDGET Year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2012 YEAR: 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 3) of the National Employment Service. Before we move to a decision on the 2012 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. The amendments were drawn by the MPs: together with Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic on 26 December 2011, Riza Halimi on Article 7 divided Chapter 3.14, Kenan Hajdarevic on Sections 17 and 20, and on Sections 53 and 54, and Judita Popovic on Article 7. Since the Legislative Committee, at its session on 29 December 2011, assessed that these amendments were in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, I find that an integral part of the bill became an amendment of the Government to the article. 1, 2, 3, 7, 14 and 35; Amendment of the People's MPs Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 7, Sections 17 and 37; Amendment of the People's MP Nenad Konstantinović to Article 8 and Amendment of the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 12. We're moving on to a decision. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Finance on Article 3 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. To vote the amendments, it takes at least 126 votes. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic to article 7 of Sections 1 and 51 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet, to Sections 2 and 50 of the 7th. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Sections 2 and 50. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Division of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in Sections 3.4 and 54, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. At least 126 MPs are required to vote on the amendments. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment of Section 3 and the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted the 7th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, he divided the 3rd and 20th amendments, with a correction, by MP Riza Halimi. Of 128 MPs, five for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment of Section 3 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Of 128 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 17 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marija Bulgarcic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 7. Split 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 14 for. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of 43. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Laws and other general acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. The government has particularly justified reasons for the degree of effect of this law earlier than the eighth day since the day of publication cited the proposal. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 5(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Budgetary system law, budget revenue and income must be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditure. Some of the amendments have made changes in the part of the budget governing expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and budget receipts. With that in mind, I suggest that the National Assembly's service, before the law is passed on, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out a technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, as a whole. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, all 128 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2012 by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we adopted the 2012 Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly gives agreement to the financial plans for 2012 of the Republic of Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2012. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2012. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Office. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2012. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2012 National Employment Service's financial plan. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's 2012 financial plan. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the budget system. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128, MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accizes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 128, MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 13th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Taxation of Legal Persons Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 104 for. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to article 6. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 100 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on APPROVAL FOR Obligatory Social Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a law amending the amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, he voted 101. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that the amendment of the Government to Article 53 became an integral part of the Bill's proposal after being adopted by the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so that it is subject to Article 164(3) of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, in particular, doesn't decide. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, two are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 96 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Finance on Article 11 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 109 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 13 for. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We move to a statement on the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements Laws on Obligation Security in COOPERATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic. We move to a statement on the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Roads, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Amendments and the Law on Public Roads. We move to a statement on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON SAFETY OF TRAINING ON THE ROADS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 1a be added after article 1. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 2a be added after Article 2a. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Defence and Security have submitted an amendment to Article 8. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Defence and Security have submitted an amendment to Article 9. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 9th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. For technical reasons, we need to repeat the result of the vote. I'm not going to announce this result. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on the Environment Protection Fund After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and detail, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's article 7. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly is that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Environmental Fund. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: the proposal of the Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE As the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, I put the draft law to the vote in principle. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of 127 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: I put the draft law on additions to the law on the regulation of the court after the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, to vote on the draft law in principle. Of 127 MPs, 121 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Court Order. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW SUPPLEMENT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision in principle. Of 127 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Mirko Munjic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 2. The draft law provides for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2012. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of 127 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: the proposal to amend the law on judicial fees after we have completed a review of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Of 127 MPs, 119 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 2. The draft law provides for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2012, meaning that the law enters into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on judicial fees in general. Of 127 MPs, 115 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on judicial fees. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO STOP THE FUNCTION OF THE MEMBER OF THE COURT OF COURT AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all MPs on the termination of the position of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision to suspend the position of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE FOLLOWING OF THE FUNDING OF THE NATIONAL ACTIONAL PLAN FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSE COUNCIL 1325 - WOMAN, PEACE AND SAFETY IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (2010-2015) Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 116 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council of the United Nations – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia (2010-2015).). We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 26 December 2011, at 13 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 27 December 2011, at 13 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 28 December 2011, at 11 o'clock and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 28 December 2011, at 11 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 28 December 2011, at 11 o'clock and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, employees of the National Assembly and on their behalf, in the New Year, all citizens of Serbia want a lot of personal happiness and health. We want as many citizens as possible to live from their work. The census warned us, and that is why we want as many families as possible to be happy with the good news of the birth of children. I thank all the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the MPs, for their co-operation so far, and I want them to achieve successes on a professional and personal basis in the coming year. Dear People's MPs, please listen to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia performed by the "Vox Slavicum" chamber choir. I thank you for your cooperation throughout this term of office and I appreciate that we have done a lot and that all we have done is a great bridge for even better parliamentaryism in the future. Thank you. We'll discuss the activities until the election is called, and you'll be notified in time.
