ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59795	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, there are 100 of us. Radiating the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Although it is obvious that there are more than a hundred of us in the hall, as it is registered officially, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in an hour I will postpone the beginning and ask the MPs to apply, all those who are in the room. In an hour we'll meet again to determine the quorum and continue to work. Dear Members of Parliament, on the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of Parliament, I find that the sittings are attended by 100 MPs, and I ask you to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units, in order to determine the number of Members present in the hall and determine whether there are any working conditions. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we are 87, which means there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr Vladimir Milentievich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59797	Madam President, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this parliament, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and probably the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are also known to announce tomorrow that the busy administrative crossings to Jarinj and Brnjak will deploy the Cypriot customs and police, strengthen the borders between Kosovo and Serbia, abolish the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and definitely integrate Serbs from northern Kosovo into the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo. As logistics, EULEX and KFOR are announcing their intention. So far, EULEX and KFOR have been fully partners in solving the KIM crisis. If EULEX and KFOR, as peace and status neutral forces, put aside Pristina, stop being neutral, stop being peaceable and leave status neutrality, we Serbs in the North and will see them as occupiers. For the reason of the occupation, Pristina cites criminal structures in northern Kosovo. In addition, residents are told that the actions and plans of the Kosovo government are not directed against them, but aimed at removing crime in the north of KIM. For them, criminals are the ones who don't pay customs so-called. The countries of Kosovo, those who fight to preserve KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia and do not accept the institutions of the so-called "KIM". the countries of Kosovo. I have already asked the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Police a parliamentary question -- whether Serbs at KIM who do not pay customs, etc. the republics of Kosovo and Serbs fighting for the preservation of Kosovo in the composition of the Republic of Serbia criminals? Yes or no? Unfortunately, I didn't get a concrete answer. Serbs who do not pay Kosovo customs cannot be criminals, because they do not recognise so-called. The state of Kosovo cannot be criminals or Serbs fighting for the preservation of the Republic of Serbia's KIM. In KIM, especially in the north of KiM, there is no Serb who wants to live in an independent state of Kosovo and has not been involved in defending the state sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Those who wanted to live in the so-called. The independent state of Kosovo is already in Pristina and is helping create Kosovo's independence. We who stayed in the north, to repeat again, do not accept the institutions of Kosovo. We do not want to live in an independent Kosovo. We do not accept unilateral moves and violence and without a reserve determined to prevent Pristina's intentions by democratic means. For this purpose, there is complete unity and nothing can prevent us from protecting legitimate national interests. Unfortunately, the irresponsible, inadequate and capitalist policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia has diminished our ability to prevent the intention of Pristina, which wants to change reality in the north and gain a better position to continue negotiations. In this delicate and dangerous situation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no intention of requesting an emergency session to discuss the situation on the ground, nor has it notified the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of the development of events and the implementation of activities and measures to protect sovereignty and the population, although the declaration of July 31st commits it. The KiM committee has been scheduled three times to report to Belgrade's negotiating team on the course of dialogue with Pristina. None was held because the negotiating team did not find it appropriate for the Committee to attend, and yesterday members of the ruling coalition did not give the quorum so as not to draw any conclusions, although they were in the Assembly's hall. Given that the Security Council has scheduled a session today to discuss KIM, you can see for yourself the relationship between the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and KIM. As you say, you're conducting diplomatic activities, you're doing everything you can to keep the conflict from escalating. (President: Time. ) By asking the question, if there is unrest and conflict, Pristina uses force and tries to clear Serbs from the north of KIM, will the security forces of the Republic of Serbia protect the people or stay in its bases and deal with raspberries and gay parades?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59798	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59799	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, my question will be about money and taxpayers' money, as was the previous issue, because we invest about 500m euros in Kosovo, and we don't see the effects, and in the mining-topic pool, either through state funds or through guarantees, almost as much. June 9th I asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic – who controls RTB Bor's business? Until today, I have not received an answer, although there is a Assembly and a board of directors, etc. However, the investment cycle began three years after two failed privatisations apparently no one controls. So the question arises – does Serbia have adequate control over the amount of money being poured there, if not already for this money going to Kosovo? What are the arguments? Now there are new facts, in the meantime. I insist on answering my question – are the management bodies of the company doing their job or are they all left to Director Blago Spasovski? How could you, for example? Bor, whose head is this gentleman, starts with investing in mining production and mining and processing ore on the bed of Choka-Marin, it's a small bed with Majdanpek, and yet there is no confirmed ore reserve for that bed? Otherwise, by law, it's the first paper to get all the other papers. Can anyone in this country dig where it comes to mind without permission or paper? Plus, this is a serious and economic issue, but also ecological. The ore on that bed is full of very harmful substances, such as mercury, arsenic and cadmium, but it's still being dug without permission. How does the state let that happen? Perhaps Mr. Spasovski was in the same party with the current Minister of Mining, but there should be no reason. I say, "Was." Large equipment, trucks, dumpers, baggers, drills has not yet begun to dig up the ore. So it was obviously public procurement. The second question is, what about the so pompously announced dig-up of rich ore in the Borska Cave from the famous mineral body Te? Even the president of Serbia was brought there and said that it is fortunate that we will extract such rich ore and make a lot of money and invest in Bor. When that thing over there, it's like a spoon to dig. The symbolic ores are being dug up. It's not gonna happen, and it's been over two years. It's okay to make turns, circular flows, paint facades, but this is a big, huge money for all Serbian citizens, not municipal money to deal with so undomestically. The question is also raised about the hasty decision, the start of construction of a new solvent and a sulphuric acid factory. Three times already announced the start of the construction of the smelter. Here we gave guarantees for loans worth 130m or 140m euros. Three times it opens and announces the beginning and is always said - 36 months it will take. It's just, we don't know when and from what point will those 36 months start to count? On the side that the Performance Study, which is that no one has ever seen a business plan for that smelter, and such big decisions have been made on such big money. What if, for example, the price of copper falls, which is now the highest price in history? Although the highest price is in history, and the world market price of copper is around 10,000 euros, RTB Bor is working with a loss. What happens if China, because of its development, does not maintain 10% and the construction industry does not maintain such a price of copper? What happens when he falls down? Are we going to waste money in vain and remain in debt to the state and leave Bor in some kind of privatization to someone? Is Bor privatized, did this Spasowski buy that we don't know? That's all that bothers us and we open up as a question, and the government shuts up. So, once again, I insist on the answer. These are just some of the questions. A copy of a man without permission opens up like that one time Feketic via Feketic opened in every campaign, opens a smelter. Will you stand in the way of self-government in RTB Bor? Not to go into other things now, I insist on answering the question I asked on 9 June, with the new circumstances that I have set here – how is it possible to dig at Majdanpek without permission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59800	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration is in the Hall and House of the National Assembly. The beginning is scheduled in 11.30 hours. I ask the board members to take part in the work. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59801	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to ask two questions. First it refers to the privatisation process. I think we have one common position here, that she was carried out very badly in the previous period. Almost a third of privatised companies will have broken contracts. At this point, I would specifically like to talk about the waterway company Ivan Milutinović, short-term PIM. An extremely important company that entered the restructuring process in 2005, for which a tendering process dealing with hydrobuilding works is envisaged. It is one of the few companies, which unfortunately comes under question by the privatisation agency and the government itself. There are great illegalities in the previous period, and it seems to us that the damage that could be done by such a privatisation process would be extraordinary. What's this about? The aforementioned tender was launched in 2010. Unfortunately, only one bidder appeared, and from that moment on, the Privatisation Agency officially interrupts the privatisation process, but continues to negotiate itself outside the Commission for the negotiations officially formed by the restructuring programme, negotiating with La Farz, allowing itself to change the conditions of the tender documentation that have been submitted. It even changes the spatial plan, so that the quarry in Golubac, its capacity, doubles. In doing so, there is government support. In 30.6.2011, the government is exempt from selling part of the property, as it is obvious that La Farž is not interested in all the assets of the company I was talking about, "Ivan Milutinovic". We are coming into a situation where the Privatisation Agency, that individuals from the Privatisation Agency voluntarily, outside the legal frameworks negotiate and negotiate some privatisation, to the detriment of workers, and I would say, to the harm of the whole society. What is inadmissible for us and what is the question that I wanted to ask, first of all, the Ministry of Economy – does it intend to call new tenders? As things stand, the terms of the tender have changed significantly. It is necessary to call a new tender to make new bidders appear, and perhaps we would have a significantly better price than we have at this point. What will the government do when it comes to Privatisation Agency's behaviour, because such procedures as the Privatisation Agency, where it freely negotiates with customers, are not an exception? It's not just in this case, because the ever-increasing gentlemen of the Privatisation Agency are voluntarily taking over the privatisation process and working on their own. As for the other subject, I think she deserves our attention at this point. It's about farmers, and it's about the fact that yesterday we had a serious conflict between the gendarmes and the police, and our farmers, above all, the raspberries. I'd like to say it's the Agricultural Producers' Association. We often simplify the matter, speaking only of the raspberries, that they are from the Zlatibor County and the Moravia County. The fact is that for 15 days they have not been able to protest, as many social groups in Belgrade today have and are fighting for their rights, as police are preventing them from doing so. We're in a situation where police are one part of the farmers' citizens who are scrambling and restricting their basic rights to strike. What's the SNS's position is that, in general, agriculture, of course, and raspberries that have a significant impact on agricultural exports, we have to have a much more thoughtful view. No matter how much the Ministry of Agriculture claims there is no money for raspberries, there is no subsidy, it has to change, that the government and the Ministry of Agriculture with all farmers, and when it comes to agriculture, it has to change its policy. A concrete question – what does the police intend to do with the rights of agricultural producers to strike?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59802	Time. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question first of all to the Government of Serbia – when will it prevent the robbery of Serbian citizens at all levels? It's just scary when you look at the state we live in. What is most important today is the problem of raspberries in Serbia. This is repeated year after year, because the situation regarding raspberries is absolutely not arranged. Several hundred thousand Serbian citizens will suffer enormous damage. The damage will be sustained because the DS government has allowed citizens to be robbed. In what way? It's very simple. Almost all of Serbia's coolants are being held by DS members. Almost everything. One of them even opened Boris Tadic. I think she's in Osecina. That's what the SRS talked about in 2007. Look what's done. All agriculture ministers are absolutely on the side of the freezer. That's how they make it possible for citizens to rob themselves. Look what the police are doing today when it comes to a ravine producer protest. They can't show up on the road. Remember a short time ago when there was a blockade of the Vojvodina, because, I must admit, a good law was proposed to tax the land of those who have more than 14 hectares. Why tax? Because you've made it possible for all kinds of machinations for individuals to rent 100 acres, and that's what they're buying in someone else's name, giving all the money for it. They don't do anything, they don't bury a single ace, but when it's over, like, when they pay everybody everything, they get about a million dinars. Bojan Pajtic was against the law. He took tractors out on the roads of the Duke. No one could pass. Why didn't the police react then? Then why didn't the police break up and stop the roads from blocking? Because that didn't suit Bojan Pitiæ. And now, when it comes to raspberries, now they can't even show up on the road, they're stopped. You simply have absolutely no single motive to allow yourself to work normally in this country and that people live thanks to their work. You're only interested in your interests. Look at the banking system. Look what you've allowed. You've completely destroyed domestic banking. You have two, three of our banks trying to survive on that market. But that's why you made it possible for all the foreign banks to rob this people ruthlessly. Look what's been done with the Swiss. When are you going to suggest something? Why don't you look up to the EU countries you're so anxious about? Look what Hungary did. Look at other countries. You don't care. This is Rafheisen Bank prescribing a course for those who are in charge of repaying loans. Why don't you tax them? Why don't you tax that extra profit? Does anyone have any information on how much money they've taken out of this country? You don't care. Individuals of you take a commission for it, and let them peel this people. You keep your mouth shut. And the crisis is coming, much bigger than she was. Do you know how many people are going to run out of houses, apartments, no means to work, because they took the loan honestly, but then former Governor Jelasic led them to be in charge of the Swiss, so the Swiss man leveled with the euro, and we came to the situation that people were robbed today, especially those in charge of buying the apartment. And you're nothing. How is it possible that foreign banks are keeping servers out of this state? In 24 hours, they have a complete picture of the situation in our country, and you don't care. You don't care because some of you take money for it. (President: Time. ) So, one simple question to the Serbian government – when will they do something not to rob Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59804	We'll pass on your question. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59805	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs and all the citizens of Serbia who watch, I hope, this direct transmission, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, the Prime Minister and all the regular bodies and institutions dealing with human rights and even the rights of citizens. In one part of Serbia, above all in western Serbia, for several days hundreds and thousands of citizens, for the deepest social reasons, are protesting, therefore, raspberries whose sweat and effort and blood are trying to kidnap. What the price of the raspberries should be, I'm not going to talk right now because I'm really not professional about it, I just want to point out the right of these people. Where are these people's human rights? Recently, we had protests from farmers in Vojvodina, which New Serbia also supported. They were almost modeled on all televisions, almost direct transmissions, almost almost supported by state media. What's behind it is I don't want to talk about and what problems other citizens have had that have traveled, but they may have had an understanding for people who for some reason have justifiably protested. What is now done when it comes to people from western Serbia, from Aryl, Prepolje, Koseric, Ivanjica, Požega? They're almost, Madam President, in the casamat. The police are standing in front of their houses. They can't get out of their houses. They can't use their human right to move freely. They're not allowed to protest. At this point, I repeat, I'm not talking about the price of raspberries and whether the state has money for subsidies for a kilo of raspberry, I'm talking about the human rights of these people. They're not even in the media. Some of them are being arrested, the leaders of the association. What kind of society do we live in, what country? It is even given by some ministers of messages – you have now found that you are protesting when the sky burns, the worse the country, Kosovo is at stake. It's a rhetoric from 20 years ago, and we Googled it, and we've already learned what that means. On behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I most strongly protest and demand that these people be given their democratic and human rights, the raspberries from western Serbia, above all, to allow them human and every other right to protest. They have the right to protest. They have the right to demand that their product, their source of existence for them and their families be adequately rewarded, and not to be ruled by a monopoly, but we have heard from some predecessors here, in what way. I have a second question for you personally, Madam President, and it concerns the withdrawal of the Rehabilitation Act. I don't know if you know or whether you might have seen a statement I made yesterday on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club for the rehabilitation law here in the National Assembly there was an adequate number of MPs who would vote and give a quorum. So I speak on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club. We'd vote for the rehab bill. Therefore, you should, accordingly, have even given a warning to one minister here to protest sharply with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has proved very insecure here, that a law that expects hundreds of thousands of people 50 years, 60 years, in such a non-sharp way, has been withdrawn from the agenda, although there has been the will of MPs to vote the law here, although the law in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been voted unanimously and sent to the procedure. We've had the debate, we've spent time, energy, electricity, the travel expenses of the MPs, the costs of transferring this assembly, and then someone pulls the law. So what do we got? We have a bickering in the media between the two ruling coalitions that each of their ideological positions performs by making itself a marketing space ahead of the elections and which is not at all interested in the real content of the law, otherwise, as representatives of the ruling coalition, it would be agreed in five minutes. This is really unacceptable, especially when we have a case of withdrawal of the Law on Railways, as one European law, not to say the conditions for candidacy, which most expect. Therefore, I expect you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, since this is the representative body of Serbian citizens, to direct a protest to the government of the Republic of Serbia over the way they acted on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59806	The question you asked me has its answer to the Rules of Procedure about our work. In accordance with Article 159, the proposing representative shall have the right to withdraw the text of the draft law by the end of the search. It's only in this council done 43 times. So different legislators have done it before. It is my duty to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I cannot respect your suggestion to object to the respect of the Rules of Procedure. We just respected him. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59807	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will use this time to ask three short questions. My first question concerns, i.e. It's a repeat question and refers to the town of Sombor. I'm setting it up with the Ministry of Economy. Namely, by what criteria is the town of Sombor left out of a list of cities that the state subsidizes foreign investors by job? All Sombords believe it is unacceptable for the town of Sombor, which in the last 11 years has only one greenfield investment to be left out of this list, with the list of cities that are constantly being helped and in which the state is constantly investing, whether this government or the governments that were before it. My second question concerns the town of Novi Sad and I am asking Prime Minister Cvetkovic – when will the government respond to the initiative of the City of Novi Sad Assembly since November 2009? All parties signed the initiative. So, the positional and opposition parties, perhaps apart from the Democratic Party of Serbia, are talking about the need to introduce forced measures into the "DP Novi Sad - Gas" and to return the company under the authority of the city. I'll just say that it's totally unacceptable and unnatural to have the largest natural gas distributor, like a company that, practically, controls itself, which controls itself, and whose work is almost no influence by consumers who, by their means, practically built this company. My third question, perhaps most important when it comes to the Serbian Renewal Movement, which I also ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic -- when will the Law on Equality of Partisan Rights and Members of the Ravnogorje Movement, which was adopted in December 2004, begin? I remind you that it has been seven years since the date of the adoption of this law, and that no unequal and monarchist has exercised this legal right. Unfortunately, some in this room are happy about it. If we don't already respect the laws we're making ourselves, then it's best to get most of them together, which obviously won't be difficult, and that this law is abolished. For many human rights fighters, which may be the biggest disappointment for us from the Serbian Renewal Movement, which is that for many human rights fighters in this country hundreds of thousands of people lying in mass graves were killed just because they thought otherwise, apparently these people and those graves represent victims for no one but the Serbian Renewal Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59808	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colakovic, Djordje Milicevic and Milos Radulovic. We are moving to a joint single search on – Proposal for a Labour Compensation Decision in the National Council for Higher Education and Proposal for a Decision on the remuneration for work on the Commission's CREDITATION AND VERIFICATION OF THE CALITATE by the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the 5th and 6th points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint Single Search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia for an hour, 33 minutes, 36 seconds; to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, eight minutes, 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia 28 minutes 48 seconds; to Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, 24 minutes; to the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unity Serbia 18 minutes; to the Liberal Democratic Party 14 minutes 24 seconds; to Serbia 10 minutes 48 seconds; to the Parliament group of Manjina eight minutes and 24 seconds, and to the United Pensioners Party (PUPS) six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not done so, to report immediately for a word in a row of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them at this point in the daily period: MP Zoran Shami, Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Marina Toman, MP of the Serbian Radical Party. Pursuant to Article 192, paragraphs 3 and 193, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision on the compensation for work in the National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision on the compensation for the work of the Commission for accreditation and quality checks. Does the National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, president of the Administrative Committee, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59809	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Law on Higher Education, the National Assembly should make decisions on fees for the work of members of the National Council for Higher Education and the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification. We, in that sense, have proposed these two decisions. I mean, that MPs would have known that, practically, since this law was passed and since these bodies were formed, they have been functioning since 2006, I mean, never has the National Assembly made one such decision, even though it is our obligation to make such a decision. There was an earlier proposal from the Education Committee, so 2006. the year, which was sent to the Assembly, but never came to the Assembly's agenda. The Education Committee then proposed that two and a half average salaries be paid to the president of the National Council, that the deputy president be paid 2.2 of the average salary and that members of this body be paid two average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. The Management Board has seriously considered this issue now that the new proposals have come from both the National Council and the Accreditation Commission. We have decided that we cannot receive any member of the Council more than one and a half average salary and, accordingly, we have proposed a decision. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Education paid the funds to the members of the Council by 1 January 2010, not after the Assembly's decision, because it had never been, according to this proposal from the Education Committee, the ministry made one solution and paid some 80,000 dinars to the National Council president and 70,000 members. So, in the opinion of the Administrative Committee, these amounts were too large and therefore we suggested that these amounts be smaller and these decisions are in front of you. We have received the Ministry's opinion that there is a need to make the proposed decisions, as well as that conditions are provided for the implementation of these decisions, which means that there are enough resources in the budget for these payments to be made in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59810	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59811	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the motionary explained the course of things to a good degree and did it correctly. There is a need for these decisions to be made. One, unfortunately, I don't know why they weren't brought. As we have heard, since 1 January 2011, the members of the National Council for Higher Education and the Commission have not been paid any credit, as it has been placed to me a very understandable remark that there is no decision of this assembly, which is undoubtedly competent to address this problem. By the way, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such a decision should also be made for members of the National Educational Council. So that's one job I should be doing, I think, as urgent as possible. It is not disputed for me personally and for the DSS to propose such decisions to be the Administrative Committee of the Assembly. It's totally fine. But there was one situation, and I would like to draw attention to that and to the chairman of the Administrative Committee and to you. In fact, as chairman of the Education Committee, I have proposed that the Committee on Education discuss and state its position, to refer it to the Administrative Committee, because I believe this would be a more normal and quality solution. Of course, not only the Education Committee, but in this case the Accreditation Commission, the committee responsible for monitoring the work of the Accreditation Commission. Of course, then, bearing in mind the position of the committees responsible, that the Administrative Committee should propose to the Assembly what it has proposed. That's the ultimate principle issue, and now I'm not going to go into the evaluation at all and assess whether it's a well-measured proposal to get 1.5 of the average personal income, or 1.8 for the president. Personally, the proposal seems to be moving within reasonable limits. Maybe it could have been a little bigger, but I don't have any objections to it personally. I think it's important that the future, and this is the situation that will continue, that the committees in charge also ask themselves. I think that would ultimately contribute to the quality of the proposed solutions to this congregation. It's a good thing the proposal's tied up, I'm just not sure it's a good model, the proposal has to do with the average personal income, or the average salary in our country. I'm not sure that's the most correct economic indicator for the simple reason that in a country where a large number of workers have been out of work for the last few years, it's mostly workers who are less paid, no doubt there's an increase in the average wage, so one is actually a false indicator of the overall economic situation in the country. In particular, in the last year, as far as I know, the average salary has increased by about 60 euros, but it has also followed up somewhere between 50 and 100 thousand new workers on what happened in earlier years. There may be some more correct economic indicators to which these coefficients should be bound. In principle, this should be tied, so not to give an absolute amount in dinars but to bind it to all such bodies, to the overall economic situation in the country, so if it is better for citizens, then it is better for the members of these institutions. I am taking the opportunity to say one more thing, I would like the Administrative Committee to resolve, in a similar way, the salaries of the Members of Parliament, from the President of the Assembly through the Vice-President to all other MPs, in the same way that these salaries naturally relate to some economic indicators. I warned that it didn't have to be an average salary, possibly to find better indicators, but I think it's high time that the Administrative Board dealt with it. The easiest thing to do is keep your head in the sand, but that doesn't solve the problem. I think that also the salaries of MPs should be tied to some economic indicators, so say - the MP should get so much and so much, and then they would avoid all the other heifers that are usually done on MPs completely unnecessarily, because as far as I know, the last five years have not changed the salary. No one will talk about it, because it is not as good-looking, but I think, given the need to tell you that in our closest environment in the countries created by the Republic of the former Yugoslavia, MPs have far more significant salaries than our MPs. It's something the Administrative Board, this hot potato has to solve, so let it solve it and suggest to this congregation what it has to suggest. This should be done as soon as possible, because all such solutions must be covered by the future budget rebalance, if we welcome it at all this year, and of course with the budget for next year. With a reminder that, without a doubt, an urgent decision should be made to pay members of the National Educational Council, there are more of them, and I ask that my proposal be taken into consideration, in all such cases, that the competent committees of the Assembly give a preliminary opinion to the Administrative Committee that may adopt it, but not necessarily, but should and must bear in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59812	Thank you. Representative of the proposing National MP Nenad Konstantinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59813	I just want to let the MPs know what the Administrative Committee did in the meantime. What counterpart Shami is saying – it is necessary to determine the fees and the members of the National Educational Council, since the law has been amended in that part and it is possible for the Assembly board to make one such decision, the Committee has also made a decision. That's what we managed to finish. There's more of them, and that's why we've set their wages for something lower. So they have a coefficient of 1.2, which is practically less than 50,000 dinars of compensation, and President 1.5, but we managed to finish that. As far as this part is concerned, the salaries of MPs and budget rebalancing. Yes, we had the agenda of the Administrative Board two days ago and the budget rebalance of the Assembly. We didn't knowingly foresee any higher funds for the MPs. I think this assembly is very responsible at the time of the economic crisis and we have shown our responsibility not to raise the salaries of MPs practically since February 2005. It is true that they are at least in the region, it is true that the salary of MPs is 75 000 dinars, which is 750 euros, and that there is no such low salary of MPs, but I see it as our responsibility and solidarity at the time of the economic crisis. Otherwise, we managed to save 40 million dinars in the position of the MPs during this year, and now we have transferred those 40 million dinars from the position of MPs to other positions in order to complete the I-parliament project and to allow for an increase in the salaries of employees in the Serbian Parliament by about 6.5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59814	Thank you. A little replica, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59815	Mr. Konstantinovic, what you just said I'm experiencing as one of those things, don't be angry, extremely ground floor demagogy. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59816	The People's MP Marina Toman has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59817	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group, during today's debate will point to several facts that will not support decisions that are on the agenda today. Although there are only two decisions, one on compensation for work in the National Council for Higher Education, and the other on compensation for the president and the members of the Commission for accreditation and quality checks, we believe that it is a very important area, at least so should it be for the state, as it is for us, which is education and that it should be and how to pay attention. The topic also raises several very important issues, the issue of cash compensation is much more complex than whether we agree that the amount of cash compensation for council presidents and commissions is 1.8 average salaries for employees in Serbia, or 1.5 average salaries for council members and commission members. We'll point out why we think it's a much more complex question. First, higher education for a country is a very important area. For as long as in other areas, signs of the crisis have been seen in this area as a consequence of the country's overall social and economic situation. The percentage in the budget is allocated to education, and therefore for higher education is very low. The participation of higher education in the budget falls from year to year, primarily under the pressures of the IMF. The participation of higher education in budgetary expenditures in 2009 was 2.38%, which was 14.7% lower than in 2008. In 2010, it was even less, it was only 2.12% the same as in 2006. In 2011, however, the trend continued and is only 1.87% of GDP. Education is very important, if not the most significant component of one country's development. By investing in education, the country invests in knowledge, both in the future and in development. Small budget allocations could also be some of the reasons why education is in this situation today. Let's get in line. We need to consider a few things first. Are all the information we need available on the basis of which we could make a decision? No, I don't. Based on which we can determine whether it is adequate compensation for the presidents and members of the council and commission. It would be logical if a report on their work in front of them, but we didn't get it. The legal obligation of the congregation does not in any way challenge our above - mentioned dilemmas. The reasons for the decisions also state that their adoption is necessary because of the importance of council and commission competence, as well as the responsibilities that members have in implementing the education and quality process. The question arises, if their work is so significant, why are decisions on the congregation agenda today, or why have they been delayed for several years? How we could see from the 2009 State Auditor's 2009 report, compensations for members of both bodies were paid by the Ministry's solutions, i.e. the Minister of Education, in violation of two laws, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on Higher Education. Under these laws, members of both bodies have the right to compensation at the height determined by the National Assembly. The minister then called for the Ministry of Finance's opinion, which by letter informed the Ministry of Education that the government had made a proposal for a decision on the amount of compensation, both for members of the council and for members of the commission. The compensation was set at 70% for the president, the vice president of 60% and 55% for the members, and that is so percentage of the net base of the ministry's salary. The ministry and the government apparently came to terms with this decision by breaking the law. Is that why anyone was responsible? What message did the government thus send to the citizens of Serbia, or did it send a message that state institutions were exempt from the law, that they do not have to comply with the law? What keeps them from going on like that? Why is it suddenly necessary for the congregation to make a decision if the laws have been broken for years? Whose fault is that? The auditor's report also said the Ministry of Education sent a request to the Assembly in 2007 and 2010 to adopt a decision on the amount of compensation. Why has it never been on the agenda so far? Is it an amazing fact that this decision has been delayed for a few years? Also, when we consider these decisions, the question arises whether the National Council and the Commission have justified their work, or whether they exist? The Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification was established by the National Council, as we all know about higher education with the task of carrying out accreditation and quality control of higher education institutions and the evaluation of study programmes. Under the Higher Education Act, the Commission is responsible for organising and overseeing a quality verification system for all higher education institutions and all institutions must pass the accreditation process. That's a fact and we don't, of course, dispute it. Also in the Law on Higher Education, the Commission has 15 members, the National Council has 21 members, and the number of members has been increased and 26 to 21 members, which we believe is indeed a lot of people, that both the Commission and the National Council really have many members. Of course, it is not our intention now to challenge the need for the process of accreditation of higher education institutions, but first of all we want to ask the question whether this process was implemented in an adequate way, or whether it was possible to organize it in another model. We believe that it was primarily meant to be in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry, which has a large number of employees. But instead, we have an absurd situation, so besides the commission and the National Council having a really large number of members, the commission is additionally engaged under the contract of external associates. The question arises, if almost every ministry has a number of accompanying bodies, agencies, administrations and competent ministries, the question arises, which is the purpose of the existence of the ministries themselves and we can ask the question which is the purpose of the existence of these agencies, bodies, administrations. The position of the SRS on this issue is clear, and we in this House very often repeat it. We don't think there's any reasonable reason for these bodies to exist, that their work is already in the intelligence of the ministries. The question arises, can one administration be able to function effectively in decommissioning jobs, duplication of jobs, duplication of functions in an incorrectly defined system of responsibility, communication, division of jobs. In this way, we really get a bulky administration whose burdens could not even bear the budgets of many developed countries, but above all we get one inefficient administration. Of course, in the end, the citizens of Serbia suffer. That you're going to say that the commission is made up of university professors, professional people. Now, I'm not going to discuss who the members of the National Council or the Commission are right now, so more will be spoken of by my colleagues. I simply want to ask the question how is it possible that, in addition to so many employees in the resolution ministry, the commission employs additional people by contract. If that were the case, we could see from the 2010 commission report. In part of the report on co-operation with the Ministry of Education, the commission says co-operation with the Ministry of Education has been in accordance with the law, however, because of the number of people from the Ministry of Education who are at the disposal of the commission, which has been reduced from six people to two people, the commission had to hire a total of four persons per contract. Also, it is said that these officials have done their job in a very safe way, but we do not know how they did the job, because from this report we cannot conclude it. So, the question arises whether it is possible for the ministry not to have four employees who would be involved in this job or whether it is already a trial recipe where huge money is spent on contract services, specialized services and a number of other things. It's an extreme negligence and not a domestic business. We also want to ask the question of how many such contracts were in the current year. I mean, were there any more out-of-the-art engagements? I also want to draw attention to the very title of that part of the report. So, co-operation with the Ministry of Education. This title simply points out as if it were completely different bodies that are not generally engaged in a similar business, or business, and which do not have almost any touching points. If we are already discussing the salaries of members and presidents, then the question arises, which is why we have no report. Why hasn't a report been filed so we can see what they've done so far. On the site, for example, a report can be found by the commission, but it is very shrewd, only a few pages and it reminds it of a note from a meeting rather than a serious report from one institution, one body doing a very responsible job, at least so claim by the ministry's authority. And now we're expected to discuss this issue today without getting all the information we need. First of all, if I am not mistaken and the representatives of the government or most MPs have advocated that the work of public institutions of bodies, etc., should be transparent. Today, we are discussing decisions that determine compensation, and that, in front of us, means that I repeat, we do not have a report on their work. So there are a number of other failures, which are why we can't support these decisions. Also, if we're already discussing compensation, wouldn't it be logical to have a report in front of us last year, perhaps a six-month work report in the current year? To return to the above-mentioned claim that duplication of jobs can create major problems, i.e. chaos from which citizens suffer most. Last year we only had a few days before the first entry deadline, students could not get accurate information on whether they would be approved to enroll in the studies that received the warning act. Namely, as you know during the accreditation, the commission gives alerts, which warn, or give time to higher education institutions to address any shortcomings. We had a situation that students had not had the exact answer, or accurate information on whether or not they could enroll in these studies. At that time, the Commission even suggested that students should be enrolled in these study programmes, that they should bear the risk, as they may never get accreditation. It should be recalled that a one-time decision by the ministry last year just approved the entry into those studies. So, it's too confusing a situation. Who does a student trust? To whom should he address in search of valid information? What's in whose jurisdiction? If the ministry has approved the question despite the commission, what is the purpose of the commission? We also had a situation that the National Higher Education Council had changed some of the commission's decisions. The Council is, as we know, a senior accreditation committee and it decides on complaints brought by higher-school institutions to the commission's decisions. Speaking about this, for one week, the president of the National Council then said that when they respected complaints that some vocational schools had submitted to the accreditation committee's decisions, they did not do so because they felt that the commission had made mistakes and that they felt that the commission had not sinned in its work, but that these were different views on the situation. So we have a ministry, we have a commission, we have advice, and we have different views on situations, which deal with the same kind of business, which is the same area of ingenuity. How is that possible? It is concluded that it is not just different views of situations, but that there is more to it than that. Indeed, a series of things, a series of gaps. In addition, as insufficient results and reforms of higher education, inconsistencies in the application of accredited, or study rules are often cited. They're going to talk about it a little bit more about my colleagues. We believe, as long as a high education strategy is not adopted which would clearly define the goals we want to achieve in this field and in this area, and ways to reach them, we will deal with the side effects that should come afterwards. So no one argues that it's very important what the conditions of study are, how many chairs have one classroom, how many computers, what size the classroom is, because they definitely mean a lot to the quality of study. It's something that comes after. First, it is important to adopt a very important strategy for the development of higher education. As long as it doesn't, we'll just, like other things when it comes to things, just turn things around and do things at the beginning, and if they're supposed to come at the end. These are some of the reasons, of course, other reasons will be discussed by my colleagues, which is why we cannot support these decisions on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59818	The floor is represented by a representative of the promoter, National MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59819	counterpart Toman has asked several questions, and these questions cannot be answered by the Administrative Committee. The theme today is the amount of compensation to be paid to members of these bodies for work. The question you asked should be addressed to the Education Committee. The SRS has several members of the Education Committee. Every year, the Education Committee discussed a report on the work of the bodies that we are talking about today. They did it two or three months ago for the last time. The report on the work was also received by the Administrative Board and we had it in mind when we made a proposal for a decision. The report on the work was accepted by the Education Committee. I think if you have these dilemmas that you're talking about, you should initiate through your members on the Education Committee, a debate on the work of these bodies. The President of the National Council for Higher Education, President of the Accreditation Commission, should be invited before the Education Committee itself, where you could ask them all these questions and have them debated in one quality way. This is not about the proposal of the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59820	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59821	Your claims cannot in any way dispute my question, because my question was, why don't we have a report on the work today, since that report was on the parent board, and he was because they were looking for members of the Committee, not because the members of the Commission and the National Council considered it their obligation. My question is, why has every MP in this House not received a report on their work with a decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59822	Do any of the presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the participation of MPs in the application for a word in a joint single search. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Zlati Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected presidents, respected to the public of Serbia, we have two decisions ahead of us, and usually when this item of the agenda comes, there is always little interest in the discussion and in the hall, and I believe that the public of Serbia, in part, is following this point of the agenda with less attention. At first, I will say that New Serbia will not support these two decisions very argumentably, very clearly because at the time of the promotion of all possible savings and one big and wide story about how we advocate to cut costs in the public sector, we make two decisions on fees for two very important bodies, which also votes this high house, and whose report, as my colleague said before me, does not have any. We just got a very clear need for how much compensation these members need to pay. If Mr. Zarko Obradovic were present, I believe that he would fully support me because I know that I went to him personally, precisely because of this accreditation committee, asking, asking, helping people to do something about it. It would be very interesting to see a special report on the work of the Accreditation Commission because, according to some of my findings, I know they haven't brought in any of their basic acts on which they have to work, but they will receive fees. That's pretty high fees. What is hypocritical and what is really humiliating for this home, exactly what Mr. Konstantinovic said, should not be considered to be called, but he has told the truth – we MPs who are least paid in the region with a salary of 75,000 dinars, which is even degutantly mentioned, that it will remain a trend and to the end, that we have been dragged through thorns and trees and fires and water precisely because of some ridiculous things, exposed to a media lynch, people who are the only ones who can speak here on behalf of the citizens, who occasionally cross over to be in this home to be able to turn on behalf of the citizens with some topic, and today we need to support the wages, very high wages at this point in Serbia, people who occasionally meet to do something, who are already in some other place receiving salaries and their report of their work in front of themselves today, so that at least the MPs see what they are now for a very high voice, that we can do now. Since we do not have all this, and since we have the knowledge that this work is also very often asked, New Serbia will certainly not support this decision in the voting day. We will join, but not only in declaration, that policy that struggles to finally tighten the belt in this country and must be seen how much money is poured out of the budget on these and similar bodies, even if those bodies that work less than the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are a little used to saving on behalf of the citizens who sit there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59824	Thank you. The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59825	Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, the honourable fellow MPs, are present today two points of the agenda that do not present classic drafts of the law, as was the case with the first four agendas of this session, but the proposals for two decisions in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, in particular the proposal for a decision on compensation for the work of the National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision on fees for the work in the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check. At first glance, it would be said that we do not have much to discuss because in matter for these two points, we have only these two lists, one of which refers to one, and the other to the second item of the agenda, where it is said that for the work in those commissions, it is proposed that it be 1.8 of the average net earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and the members of the Commission to earn one average. Whether it's much or little, there's a lot of arguments for and against, and I would stress here the fact that all these people who are members of these committees are already at work somewhere and are getting salaries in their organizations and institutions, and this comes to them as some extra work. At the time of this major economic crisis, it is certain that this too should be considered. However, regardless of who it is for, who it is against, I feel it is necessary to say a few words about the entities to which these two decisions apply, which are the National Council and the Accreditation Commission. The Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005, and supplemented in 2007, 2008 and 2010, complete matter governing higher education in the Republic is divided into some 19 chapters and for our debate today is a particularly interesting chapter 2 called "providing the quality of higher education". Within this second head, three separate characteristic continents can be detected. The first part consists of members of Law 9-12 relating to the National Council, to work, composition, jurisdiction and other activities. The second would be members of the 13 to 17 laws, which relate to the Commission for Accreditation and its activities. The third general is what is of common interest to all entities, i.e. in this case the establishment of the so-called University conferences, short-term KONUS, the Academy of Professional Judges conference, the student conference of universities and the student conference of the Academy of Professional Studies. I'm going to try to briefly explain each of these continents. The first continent, i.e. The National Council. It is clear that this is the most important quality assurance institution in the Republic and after the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, these last ones that were held on 1 July 2010, the National Council for Higher Education by a new number of 21 members, while earlier it was 16. The membership structure is such that 12 members propose a conference of universities from the order of regular professors, prominent scholars or internationally recognised artists, two members propose a conference of the Academy of Professional Studies in the order of regular professors of vocational studies, six members are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, noting that one must be from the territory of KIM and one member suggests AP Vojvodina. So, a total of 21 members, being said that two representatives of students who delegate student conferences can participate in the work of the National Council, and they only participate on certain issues relevant to students. As far as history goes, let's go back a little bit. For the first time, the National Council for Higher Education was established on 3 April 2006 with a term of four years, which means that on 3 April 2010, his mandate expired, but I will remind you, by the end of the term of office, that the new National Council was not elected, but was at one of the meetings of the Education Committee, which was specifically on 18 May 2010, decided that both the council and all its working bodies should continue to work until the election of the new council. You see, there is a huge irresponsibility at the beginning because there was a delay in the list of candidates by authorised proposings. The National Council is legally required to report its work at least once a year. I will correct Mr. Konstantinovic who, as far as I can see, is not in the O.R. He said that he was taking it on a regular basis. It's not regular. The first year of work, in 2008, we criticised the board for not having a report, and only on our criticism, later, was it retroactively submitted to the report on the work. So it's filed, but it's a year late. I can tell you that there were more chronology sessions in that report than should be in the National Council report, first of all, of the strategy. So there was no education strategy in it. As for these amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which I mentioned in 2010, it is interesting to note that then the most changes were on this chapter 2 which we are discussing today – security of the quality of higher education. In particular, seven members of the law were subject to changes and additions, which in itself says that something was scribbled and that it was wrong because all the other chapters in the Higher Education Act had two or three changes, and here even seven members were changed. What's changed? Those members relating to the composition of the council, to the responsibility of the council, to the responsibility of the commission and to the financing of the University of Academy of Professional Studies conferences and these student conferences where they have been said to be in the Republic of Serbia's budget since 2010. As far as the accreditation and quality-checking committee is concerned, it is a special working body within the National Council and deals with accreditation of higher-school institutions, quality checking of their work and their higher-school units, if any, as well as the evaluation of study programmes. The accreditation committee numbers 15 members, three members from each scientific and educational field, and I will remind you, there are five of these fields in the Law. The first field is natural mathematical science, the second, socio-humanist, and then medical, technical and technological science, and finally, the fifth field is art. As with the National Council, the mandate of members of the commission takes four years, with the possibility of two consecutive mandates. The Commission also submits a report on its work to the National Council, and this commission educates expert teams, which are composed of members called reviewers who are actually doing quality checks on higher education institutions. The most important activities of the Accreditation Commission, just to briefly state, would be - the commission was established on 27 June 2006, meaning, one year after the adoption of the Law and higher education. The Commission's first major activity was to draft standards for accreditation of institutions and study programmes. Another major activity was making instructions for the preparation of accreditation documentation, and then, let's say, the next one was the selection of reviewers. So, according to the data I downloaded from the site, there are about 700 peer reviewers who have the authority to deal with these accreditation jobs. Afterwards, about twenty-one-day seminars for the training of reviewers were organised by 2010, and four large seminars with 856 participants. I will only remind you that the accreditation of higher education institutions began in 2007. First they accredited high school vocational studies. A total of 68 schools were accredited with 263 study programmes, and college accreditation started in 2008 and included 8 universities, 102 universities and higher schools of academic studies and 1.006 studies programmes. The Ministry of Education has issued a handbook, called "High Education Accreditation", and when you look at everything here and what the Commission should check, or what higher education institutions should meet to be accredited, believe me, any higher education institution in Serbia would be better than Oxford and Sorbonne. This is one imaginary, let's say, more list of more wishes than real needs, which can be asked in Serbia today by these institutions, which means that in the work of the Commission we can say that there is more than one formalism than some substance that needs to be fulfilled. In the end, I would only regrettably point out that there are no representatives here today from neither the National Council nor the Accreditation Commission, which is a little unusual, because we are having a debate about them. But I'm also going to have to mention this third part of Chapter 2 relating to the student conferences of the Academy of Professional Studies and these academic studies. Namely, these conferences have been set up to address issues of importance for students. The way they work, it's a special story. I'll only remind you of the freshest event since a few days ago. The Assembly of the Student Conference of Academic Studies was held in Cačka on 8 September 2011. If we know that about 70 vocational studies have been accredited in the Republic of Serbia, this means that a quorum is needed for the work of this assembly of some 35. According to the information we have, only 20 delegates from professional schools were present in Cačka, which means there was no quorum to work with. But apparently it didn't bother some to choose the president of the Academy of Professional Studies. A certain Nebojsa Andrejevic from Kragujevac, a man who is 30 and a few years old, was elected. Now here I am publicly asking the question – can a man in about 30, 40 years represent regular students in 19, 20 years who have very different interests than regular students? The meeting in Cačka was conducted by a certain Mario Spasic, a student who has no student status, who has been released from the High Technical School of Engineering Engineering Studies from Triestenik. A letter was sent which made it clear that the second President of Parliament, Stevan Jakovljevic, was elected instead. You see, they didn't even get, legal representatives, an invitation to the meeting, but a group of members of NGOs, resistors, what if, calling for academic freedoms and autonomy, she chose herself. Apparently, the situation from the top of the country has also been passed on to student parliaments, as it is obvious that the president of the state, Boris Tadic, is more trembling than Natasa Kandic and Sonja Biserko than 250 Serbian parliamentarians, because it is obviously influencing parliament, and there are no NGOs. This is an example of a drastic violation of student rights, where NGOs are appointed by the presidents of parliaments of the assembly. I'm sorry Mr. Obradovic isn't here. The ministry should protect the legality of the work and annul this illegal assembly in Cacchak a few days ago. For now, I would like so much, and the details of these two decisions will be discussed further by my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59826	The MP, Mrs. Radica Jocic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59827	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, although the Minister of Education at the end of the session, before the annual vacation, promised to discuss in the autumn the already prepared law on adult education and education strategies, we are already here at an extraordinary session in September to discuss decisions on compensation for work at the National Council for Higher Education and the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification. Although they are Article 11. The Higher Education Act provides for the responsibilities of the National Higher Education Council relating to accreditation and quality assessment, as well as professional, administrative and information affairs for the purposes of the National Council, the law immediately provides that the National Council may educate special working bodies. Thus, according to the old custom, although the National Council has 21 members and all services available to the Ministry, another one of the many agencies has been created with 15 new members, although the agency has over 110 on the list of the Commissioners for Information, and many are already intertwined with competences. We will talk more about how much we need to talk about when the Maritime Navigation Act comes on the agenda, which otherwise provides for the formation of a special body that will take care of maritime accidents, although Serbia, as far as we all know, unfortunately, has no sea. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, held on 18 May of this year, the president read the letter of the Ministry of Education and Science, reminded that the compensation for the work of the members of the National Council for Higher Education and the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Checks was paid on the basis of the Government's act, but that the DRI had made a comment on this, so it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt a new act on a proposal from the competent committee. In view of the fact that members of these bodies have established the right to compensation of the Law on Higher Education, at the height set by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent committee, and that since the adoption of the Law in 2005, the National Assembly has not adopted an appropriate act, the Education Committee has unanimously decided to ask the Administrative Committee to consider, as soon as possible, the problem with the payment of compensation and determines its height, both for the members of the National Council on Higher Education and the Commission on Accreditation and Quality Check, and for the members of the National Education Council. Of course, July 27th of this year, the Management Board is in session and we have their proposal before us today. I reminded you of all of this for one simple reason, so that I could ask one question: How is it possible that, when the interests of the ruling majority are at stake, all the committees, and by the most heat, meet and work with the quorum, and these days Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, president of the KIM Committee, and despite having repeatedly scheduled meetings, failed to convince members of the ruling majority that the situation in Kosovo is alarming and that it is necessary to hold a meeting of the Committee? Also, in the Committee on Education at the time of the strike, it was not possible to secure quorum, but when it comes to fees, the Committee meets in the middle of the summer, without problems, and votes unanimously. So that I don't get it wrong, of course everyone's getting paid for the work done, I'm just wondering how many people need to do it for the reforms to be catastrophic? Whom do you pay if, for example, the National Educational Council sets up teams to change the programme from 1990 to 1993 and the result is that the plans and the programme are so bad that it is estimated that it is less damage that nothing changes, rather than that it is done on innovative programmes? Or, whom do you set or cancel the fee if you throw out a Serbian language and literature program or completely marginalize individual authors who have marked the entire era with their works? For example, Danil Kish, Vladislav Petkovic Dis, Milos Crnjanski or even Ernest Hemingway? What is the fee for any advice if the minister has to come into a situation to announce that if the National Educational Council does not adopt the innovative programmes soon, it will bring everything past them? What is the use of this kind of independent work, regulatory and other bodies, if Serbian universities have set an entry quota for school in 2011 and 2012 this year without a previous analysis of whether future graduates will be able to get a job after their studies have been completed? That's no one's asking. Quotas are almost simply copied from year to year without taking into account market and economy problems. That is why it is not surprising that every year several thousand economists, lawyers and doctors have been waiting for work on the work desk for months, or, as in my White Palanca, Piroth or Babušnica, begin to do various jobs, from fruit, vegetables and clothing at the markets, to the production of bags, boxes, etc. They're even disappointed that they weren't assigned to the censuses in the scheduled list. This year at Belgrade's largest state university, the index won over 14,000 freshmen in July. To avoid much care in colleges about the number of enrolment students, Prof. Branko Kovacevic, head of Belgrade University. As he noted, there is still no plan in Serbia to bring the needs of markets and the number of future freshmen in colleges, which requires the inclusion of the entire state, government, ministry and national employment services. That is why in Serbia you still cannot choose college according to your preferences and talents, but you still have to, according to the Rector himself, Mr Kovacevic, think carefully about what you want to enter and think about how much you will need to get a job after you finish your studies. How far has the reform of higher education spoken of in recent years, i.e. A reform based on the Bologna Declaration, which despite opposition from the SRS and a large part of the professional public was introduced in Serbia, also said the conclusions from the expert meeting "Trends of Development – Trend 2011". which was held in Kopalnik in the spring, which brought together representatives of the academic scientific community and the competent ministries. This 17th trend was the tenth to address issues related to higher education reform, and this time the topic was, imagine Europe 2020. - a knowledge-based society." In the conclusions of the four-day meeting, which brought together 132 participants from eight states and 40 institutions, it is noted that a significant reform step characterises the establishment of state infrastructure, is meant by appropriate laws, as well as that most higher education institutions have adapted their student programmes and capacities to prescribed standards and completed the first step of accreditation or are in the accreditation process. Positive results of the previous reform of higher education are seen in satisfaction, beware of this – only formal requirements of standards relating to study programmes, processes and characteristics of institutions, establishing a system of security and quality improvements at universities and universities, cutting study time, increasing the competence of teachers and associates, increased mobility of students and teachers. As insufficient results of the reform, it is primarily mentioned: inconsistencies in the application of accredited study rules. It is also pointed out that there has been a reduction in quality criteria, which has also been produced by one-time decisions by state authorities. Sublegal acts are missing which are necessary for the full application of the amended Higher Education Act. The system of funding for higher education has not been resolved until the end, nor has the university integration process been completed to adequately control the fulfilment of the conditions after granting work permits. The conclusions of this meeting show that it is necessary and fundamentally necessary to change the system of financing higher education in Serbia, and by financing the workload for the target number of students, which means greater education and science, and in order to achieve this, a new law needs to be adopted as soon as possible and in accordance with it. It is also said that the continuation of the reform needs to be based on full harmonisation of study programmes and the capacity of higher education institutions to European standards for accreditation, as internationalisation of higher education becomes a condition for its sustainability. It insists on the full application and control of the professional compliance of those standards, which we were prone to adopt. The emphasis must be on the quality of the study programmes and the outcome of education to be based on the vertical connection of content, in order to gain knowledge used in practice and creativity, rather than solely on the expressed number of points. The need to encourage remote studies and to develop methodologies of checking and recognising informally acquired competences and knowledge, to achieve sufficient compatibility with study programmes in the environment, respects the specificity of the profession, especially taking into account the possibilities of obtaining appropriate licences, to take care of ethics, education, science and art. As in many other areas, and in higher education on the European path, it seems that it is important to just make laws, to choose working bodies and things like that, and whether laws are implemented, whether all those bodies are doing anything – no one cares. How much longer, members and perhaps new bodies will it take for future students to know when they are enrolled in colleges, whether they are accredited or not, whether they are under warning or not? What should parents think if Professor Vera Vujicic, president of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check, says that future students must know that there is a risk that these programmes are not accredited and that they are enlisted at their own risk, and then advises future freshmen not to enter study programmes that are not accredited at all, and that for those 150 who are under the warning send out what decision will the ministry make? When? It is true that accreditation is a process in which there are gaps in the study programmes, but how can it not get the accreditation of a private university that has managed to bring in, imagine, Karl Lamers, head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, to give us children, if they do not remember, how they bombed and destroyed the state? In the end, I'd have to ask a few questions. When finally that education strategy, so that in a few years we no longer change things, for example in the following: when there were too many teachers at the Bureau, you made a decision that teachers were not able to hold physically in the 3rd and 4th grade, so you hired teachers. Now, since the teacher has more because of the reduction in the number of children, you decided that these same teachers are able to hold physically in the 3rd and 4th grade, so now they are only on the territory of the school administration in Nis 17 professors of physical education excess. Secondly, is the methodology of checking and recognising informally acquired competences and knowledge? That's what you remember, at seminars, courses, workshops, because there only if you attended you get certifications and you immediately consider yourself an area expert. No one ever checks that training, and I guess that tells you how important it is to train you. Third, how will the ministry respond to the demands of about 1,500 young people, who, at a protest rally in Bujanovac, carry US, Albanian and EU flags, have made a request for educational institutions of Serbia to recognise universities in Pristina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59828	Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59829	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my colleagues that this was a real opportunity to discuss these decisions and the Council's report on his work. However, since the report is not here, I will take this opportunity to point out some facts about higher education which, on the one hand, also speaks about the work of this council, and on the other hand, can present certain guidelines for its further work. 20 years ago, a parent could not have happened, so he was just illiterate, in a day, at night, not knowing what was called a college or a school his child was studying and not knowing what his child would get when he finished his studies. Today we have a situation where many students don't know that. I recently read the information that due to the application of this Bologna education system around 7.5% of students in Serbia do not know the exact and complete name of the professional calling they will receive when they finish their studies. There are about 50,000 experts in Serbia's working offices with college and higher school who can't find a job. Some of them have been waiting 20 years for work. Many of them have degrees in nonexistent calling and occupations, since these occupations are not in practical life. This is the best confirmation that the higher education system is not in line with the needs of society and economy, but that colleges and higher schools, people say, are stamping personnel because it suits them. What our higher education system can be seen in the length of our studies. The average student in Serbia studied in 7.84 years, nearly twice as much as is foreseen by the so-called Bologna system. Studies take the longest time in veterinary and medical, on average 10.16 years. The average length of study at the university is 9.25 years. The same condition at the Faculty of Chemistry in Belgrade. At the Faculty of Economics, the studies last 7.2 years, at the legal age of 6.95, and at the philosophical age of 8.33. From the university where studies are scheduled to last five years, the longest is studied at the construction college, 8.75 years, at a mining-geological age of 8.56 and at a dental age of 8.28. Yesterday I heard an amazing piece of data from 1,800 students, who enrolled in law school in 2007, the studies ended within four. The next information to be addressed by the Higher Education Council is that out of 90,000 students, 20,000 students study seven years or more. These are the so-called majority students, who have enrolled in studies, but cannot finish them or have no intention of completing them. A senior student at the Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade took three exams for 14 years. His colleague from Belgrade's Law School passed an exam for 11 years and, imagine, eventually passed. Newspapers recently wrote about a student who could not attend 20 years of graduation because he took the exam that day. The following data – among the elected judges there is also a judge who has studied law school for only 17 years and completed it with an average score of 6.26. By the way, speaking of these senior students, it's interesting that the average of their grades is 7.48. This is, in my opinion, an amazing, alarming data, which is really for analysis, because it says it's not stupid people, it's not lazy people, it's not the problem with them, their knowledge and their will, but it's probably the problem with certain living circumstances and the system of study. The state and position of higher education can also be seen by money. In developed Western countries, about 4% of budget expenditure is allocated to finance higher education. In Serbia, the percentage is doubled and is around 2.20%. What worries most is, that percentage keeps falling. In 2005, it was 2.15%, 2.12% in 2006, 2.35% in 2008, 2.79% in 2011 and 1.87% in 2011. So, the largest singles were in 2008, and since the election of the current government, the percentage of budgets allocated to higher education has been decreasing and smaller. In order for higher education to take part in the 2011 budget costs to reach the 2008 allocation, it would be necessary to increase 50%. In order for the participation of higher education funds in Serbia's gross social product to reach an average in EU countries, it needs to be increased by a huge 65%. Speaking of money and percentages, it is indicative that the base for higher education paid years was even one third lower than the base in secondary and primary education. Another data, in eight years, the Coefficient Regulation, is referring to the salary coefficients, has been changed as many as 33 times. About every three months, on average. Now a question is being raised here – is that possible? How is it possible for governments to change in a state institution, where ministers are changed, but professional services remain, secretaries remain, assistants remain, in seven years 33 times the opinion of such a significant and expensive issue is changed? The next problem I want to point out is an unreasonable and uncontrollable opening of colleges and higher schools and their departments. Last year, I was saying that I don't think there are any municipalities in Serbia, there's no city in Serbia that doesn't have its own college, its own higher school or at least the department of some college and more schools. I think lately, I've been reading in the papers, out-of-the-box schools open in some rural areas. No one else alive has any idea what universities and more schools exist in Serbia, which of them has accreditation and what occupations. Proponents of opening colleges and higher schools across Serbia claim it is in the students' interest because they are reportedly reducing the cost of their study. But we all know that's not true. They save some money on travel, food and accommodation, however, all of these money on the other side spent on paying too much tuition and buying passing grades. Most of these colleges and higher schools operate as ordinary private shops, where exams are not subject to knowledge, but money. We all know about the case of organised sales or purchases, the sale of exams, or the purchase of grades at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, and we all know that it happens at most other universities and universities. When such things happen at a prestigious university of prestigious university, then you can imagine what happens at the university, i.e. at universities in Leška or Smederjevska Palanca. A few more data that in any case represent problems that should be dealt with by this advice. There are 12,354 graduate students at the University of Belgrade. Among them are 1,191 students who lack three exams, 813 of them have to pass two more exams, and 722 students share only one exam to graduate. Next, it was once most important for a student to show if he knew, show knowledge and learn material when passing the exam. For the student today, the most important thing is how many points he collected before his exams, or whether he was also present with regular lectures and exercises. A student who regularly attended lectures and exercises from a certain class, but he did not listen to them, nor learn what he learned, can begin to count on him to pass half his exams. The next problem is the problem of students who finished their studies 15-20 years ago. For 20 years they lived in the delusion that they had acquired one professional title, and now it turns out, after the adoption of Bologna, that they had been educated for something else, that they had actually acquired another professional calling. When it comes to higher education, i.e. total GDP, I will publish the data from 2005 to this year. In 2005, there was 0.55%, in 2006, there was 0.59%, in 2007 0.66%, in 2008 0.76%, and since 2008, there was a trend in the decline in the percentage of GDP, which has been set aside for higher education. To achieve European standards, I underline and repeat, we need to increase these funds by 65%. I know Serbia has no money as many EU countries. However, I think we all agree that the Serbian society and the Serbian economy, from the crisis it is currently in, can only extract young and educated people. I hope we all agree here, regardless of party membership, that we had a good education system. He wasn't ideal, but he was much better than what we have now. We've left that system, like "gooses in the fog" on that bologna road, we haven't gotten there, where we're headed, we can't go back and go around in circles. There is only one way out, and it is that the Ministry of Education, including the National Council, invites all smart, educated people in this country, people in charge of this area, to create one education strategy in Serbia, both high and secondary education, and that as once we have students, we have students who will be recognised around the world, who will return from international prestigious competitions with prizes. If our education system is good, if we have good experts, then no one will ask the question on which system they completed their studies. In the end, just to ask a few questions, I think it would be good if the MPs knew the answers. Who are members of the National Education Council, which political parties belong, where are they constantly employed and how many are their incomes? Whether the fee we need to make them, they're already receiving, and we've heard they're receiving. Would the National Assembly be discussing this issue if the auditor hadn't started writing sentences to the Minister of Education? Zarko Obradovic said yesterday that he was punished by the auditors for not discussing the issue. As my colleagues asked, I ask the question – why is there no report by the National Education Council and why is there no national education strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59830	National MP Nikola Savic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two decisions, one of which concerns the National Council for Higher Education, and another decision concerns the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check. In my discussion, I will remain at this first decision concerning higher education. Namely, this assembly should make a decision on the amount of monetary compensation to the president and members of the National Council for Higher Education. As proposed in this decision, the president's compensation should be 1.8 average salaries in the Republic of Serbia, while members should be given one and a half of those salaries. Of course, it is not disputed that all those who work, who do some work, should have financial compensation for their work. However, I believe that there should be a general economic situation in which the state of Serbia is located. Today in the state of Serbia around a million people do not receive any salary, about 75% of those who work have a salary that is less than average. That's why someone who, on some other basis, has a salary, which is mostly people who are employed at universities or other bodies, have about two average salaries, give 1.8 or 1.5 percent of the salary is the kind of thing that might be discussed. I don't think the amount of these salaries is suitable for the economic moment in which the state of Serbia is located. I don't want this to be considered a demagogy, but we should, first of all, ask ourselves if the Council, which I'm talking about, has fulfilled what it was formed for. Personally, and all of us in the SRS are deeply convinced that this advice has not fulfilled what it was formed for. It is a fact that is much more important than how much compensation the members or president of this council will have. Unfortunately, we have a situation where today's universities and colleges view education as too much of a business, rather than sharing knowledge with young people, as well as moral and any other value. So universities and colleges are dragged into a manager's chain, which in some ways represents a real tragedy for education. Although there are universities and scientific workers at universities and individuals who sincerely and with all their strength resist this phenomenon, it seems to me that the battle for profit is taking over the primate of the struggle for knowledge. We know that knowledge is why there are universities and all scientific institutions. Then, in such situations, we are able to transfer responsibility to the other side, and it is always the easiest responsibility to transfer it to someone else. That, as a rule, is transferred to those who are least guilty, and in this situation are students. The current government in Serbia is completely unable to solve the problems of education, and the National Council for Higher Education, which we are talking about here, is unable to give the authorities a way and way to solve these problems, which would be one of its tasks, if not one of the main tasks of this National Council. Today, young people are educated, but unfortunately, most of those who finish school and college will no longer be able to get a job, because with this authority, we see that the work is getting less and the workers are out of work. Thus certain uncertainty arises among young people, fear arises, and fear is always the best means to achieve the goals of those in power. In such situations, collective instincts and the weak ability of the group to fight for their interests and to resist negative phenomena. We come to what is worst and most tragic in education and in this situation, without a problem can completely change the meaning and purpose of education, but not only the meaning and goal of education, but also the meaning and purpose and economy and many other things in society. Through education today, the most insistent is national indoctrination, which is systematically and on a long time, and we all understand that young people represent the most suitable ground for it. Young people need to forget who they are and what they are to make it easier for powerful people to achieve their goals. They're acting on that system: if we can't change the past or we can't change it completely, then we can influence it, and we can do anything to influence its vision. That the powerful have succeeded in many ways, says many of the examples I'm going to make here. A few days ago, there was Written Day and some examples were reported there and I will talk about it and list several examples from the EU and some examples from our country. In the EU, more than 20% of young people and 15% of adults have not mastered the basics of reading and writing. We are talking about the EU. Furthermore, in Germany alone lives about 7.5 million functionally illiterate, who are unable to read or write more than a few simple sentences. These are the sources of German organizations fighting literacy. In the EU, 20% of young people have difficulty reading and writing. These same difficulties in the United States have 18% of young people, in Japan 14%, in Canada 10%, and the least in South Korea is about 6%. The second study showed that the highest not adequately written among young people in 2009 was in Bulgaria, as much as 41%, Romania 40.4%, and the lowest rate in the EU among this population was 8.1%) in Finland and Estonia 13.3%. The data that also exists, more than 75 million adults in the EU, has mastered only a basic or lower level of reading and writing. Many adults in the EU have not mastered enough reading and writing skills to cope with daily demands on the personal, social and economic agenda. As far as our country is concerned, I'm going to name just a few examples about it. Some studies have shown that the number of underwritten students in Serbia remains very high and that it is 33% in the field of reading, meaning exactly one third or every third student has reading problems. More than 34% have such problems in science and even 40% of students have such problems when it comes to mathematical literacy. According to the 2002 census, Serbia's primary school has not completed about a million people, or more than 20% over 15 years. Official statistics show that about 50% of adults in Serbia have completed primary school or are functionally illiterate. So I think that this is what I was talking about and this information that's listed here, which is really fratern, much more important than the fact that someone is going to have one, five, ten average salaries for some of their work. The most important thing is that what some body was formed for is to achieve its role, but here when it comes to the National Council for Higher Education, that's not the case. But well, these are the European values that you are seeking, and we have seen that even in the EU, a huge number of people are illiterate and have problems with reading and writing. Now, according to these European values of the era of human rights, everyone is free to choose whether they want to go to school or not. For God's sake, you don't have the right to make someone study and go to school now, because it's easier for him to go to school and play and do something else during class than to learn to read and write. I repeat once again that it is more important to bring about a comprehensive education strategy and really start from a dead end here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59832	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. You've got 15 and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59833	In order not to confuse those who are monitoring this transmission, there are two decisions on fees for work at the National Council for Higher Education and the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check. Why am I saying this? To answer some questions that came up here today. This is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, this is not the authority of the Government or the Ministry, and the National Assembly has so far failed to fulfil that obligation to prescribe by decision the amount or amount of that compensation. And here, it's happening now because the auditor found that there was some kind of illegality when it comes to these two bodies. It is prescribed here how much that fee should be 1.8, 1.5, 1.8 for the presidents, 1.5 for the members. Now that someone has set up -- as it is the Administrative Board with a Necom head-resistant concluded that this coefficient should be, no one can get an answer. Do they have any idea what they're doing in these two bodies, what work they're doing there, how hard this job is. All the members of these two bodies are in labor, mostly at university, so that's where they work, getting paid. What is the purpose of this fee to determine these decisions? Once in one of those organs, he was entitled to a daily allowance and a modest fee. In the meantime, you've complicated our legal-political system, you've created agencies, you've created many organizations that are statusally undefined. Is working in these bodies, in these two bodies, something that is voluntary or is a commitment or an honor, in that sense in some satisfaction for something that an additional man from the university does to improve both programs and in general the state of our university? We have no answers to these questions, we only have 1.8 and 1.5 and point 4) which says, "Retroactive since 1 January 2011. In order for that to not be misread that these radicals are against compensation or don't know what they want, you have to know that these coefficients when applied are about 70,000 dinars, aside from pay, of course. Why? Because they're responding to a call to come to some session where they need to adopt something. It is therefore very important to have full insight into what these people who are members of the committee or members of this council are doing. We don't have the answer to that question, we just have indications in laws where jurisdiction is prescribed, so we can draw some conclusions that they're supposed to be doing it. This is a good topic to open a public sector pay and compensation issue at all. Without the intention of underestimating the work of these people in these bodies, I must say, when you accepted Bologna as your head of education in general, you accepted the principle of disenfranchising the government and the ministry from these jobs and transferring these jobs to some families. Last year we had the opportunity to see that some of the tips had not even met during the year, and they were receiving compensation, and then we realized – the educational programme, so someone could go to college, finish college, and eventually it was concluded that the program of the university was not adequate, did not pass and that the diploma had absolutely no weight. And then the state cheated on both those students and the parents who financed it to make the kids as educated as possible. If you want to have these two bodies that would do what they have to do, then you have to look at the weight of that job, and according to that weight of the job to determine some compensation, and this way is an obvious fee. This fee is part of public service expenditure. According to the definition of those who work in public services and public enterprises, public sector in general have higher salaries and higher fees. Now let's see, can the work of these people in these two bodies compare to something? Let's get some public enterprises. The data came from February 2009 when it was interesting that no one was controlling salaries in public enterprises. I have to distract you. Public enterprises do not have the ultimate task of making profits, but of operating the public enterprise's activity on the welfare of all citizens as a beneficiary of their services. What did you write in 2009? There's probably been some changes to this day, but no one's publishing it. The most paid was JAT Airways. You say that JAT is in big trouble. The director had a salary of 379,161 dinar a month. It is said that there is no bonus, there is some representation, official vehicles, apartments, no manager's contract, and the distribution act says – it is only available on request. So he's hiding. That's where you gave a review for 32 public enterprises and now to compare. It is said this way, say the Đerdap National Park, the director receives 59,344 dinars, the data are from 2009. Now, if we put that amount of salary in the context of the president of the National Council, who works at a university or members who also work at the university and receive a fee that is higher than the salary of the National Park. I think the least you need to do is give an answer as far as possible. As you have to answer how it is possible for JAT's public company to operate at a loss and for the director to receive this kind of money or Telekom, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, Trans Oil, etc., etc. If you think public enterprises are not a rapper with advice and this commission then I'll take something that is a rapper, it's your agencies. You have the Central Register, I'm talking about February 2009, the director had 355,000 dinars a month's salary. Excuse me, please, the one who does college accreditation, the one who brings programs, as is this Higher Education Council. Who's doing a more responsible job? The director of the Central Register that deals with accounting or the one who has to decide what will happen to the generations that need to go through the educational process? You remember that saying that a bad teacher can do more harm than a colonel, because so many generations have passed, so unless he has raised them and educated them properly, the damage is inconceivable and multiple. Because one who has not passed a good education system, of course dictates some style of behavior to both his offspring and his environment. We don't have an answer. Neca didn't tell us why the coefficient is 1.8? Why isn't it a 1.2 coefficient? Why isn't it coefficient 5? No answer, but it came from the assumption that the National Assembly didn't do it when it was done by the ministry and the government was 70,000, let's keep 70,000. You know, in addition to the expertise in working in these bodies, there's something else you need. I give more meaning to what you say. The commitment, to love that job, to want good, to give up some things to achieve something good, generally good. We now have a situation to go in like this, come to me with the bodies, that's how it works out. There's no responsibility. That there's no responsibility is evidence of this agenda point. Does anyone bear the responsibility that the National Assembly did not make these two decisions even a few years ago? No one's responsible. Who can look into Neci Konstantinovic's eyes? They call their best man Nikita Rakic, you'll just sigh here. Why? Said the American Embassy, said these others. Who asks what is the interest of people or education in Serbia. It's a marginal thing. It's important to meet the requirements of Brussels. There's no alternative. Every professor has an alternative. How do you threaten educators? Or you'll work or we'll have as many on the Bureau as you want to be replaced. The fear is developing, reportedly the progress of the Republic of Serbia, and major steps towards the EU. You know, if there's an irresponsibility here, and the National Assembly doesn't do their duty under the law, which is the right thing for us to call an educational worker there to postpone the class, which has reduced the class, or for not having completed the teaching unit according to the program. That's the message that goes from here. Then we're surprised. There are worse ones from the National Assembly in this regard. They're worse, let's say our ministries. Here we are every day. We have a bill of law. In order to prove how much that law is, it is said that it was written by university professors. Was there a public tender where the ministry that was in charge of some draft law through a tender invites interested people to draft a law. No, I don't. There's Hiber, there's Vodnelic, Gašo Knezevic, Liliæ, and this one, and that one. In these banking areas, the Economic Institute, and this, and Labus, and this, and that. What's the guarantee that it's quality done? It's a diploma. Who can question the degree of Gaše Knezevic. Everything that's costing Gašo Knezevic that's good. It's even going further, some ministries are giving CESID to build a project because it's supposed that the ministries weren't designed with that kind of analysis so they can make proposals or draft legal acts, but they have to do that, and then we won't say it in a tender because it's funded by Americans, so those who finance can choose who's going to write some regulation. That logic is present to you with these bodies as well. Why? Wherever there's room to make money, people go. And copy, download from the Internet regulations from Croatia, Slovenia, translate, write as if it were your author's work, you get 300, four, five hundred per legal project. Wait if some university professors can do that when it comes to draft regulations, laws first of all, why don't they do that to people who work in these bodies, as his authorial work his program. And it's only important that they vote in the commission, to vote in the council. Basically, you pay for your diploma. And who in our house is known as the expert? Only the one someone from abroad confessed to. If he was taking part abroad in some symposium so someone said you had a great expert there, he's a star with us. Our patient, hardworking man who's really an expert on these things, no, you don't appreciate him. The National Assembly can bring all the regulations for free. We have a virtual library, we have an analytical part of people who follow up on what's going on in some countries with some regulations, making analyses. We can make all the laws for free. Some people can't be built in, they can't be built in. Now to get the discussion back, we've got public agencies, which justifies big salaries. Take this one for a bank recovery, for example. You know how much pay people get there? An abnormal, which is the effect of their work, which is a benefit to the state. She's gone. Still not cleared with a dozen banks what about their assets, what about balances, etc. You pay for silence, you pay for the waist, and we have no answer for why it's 1.8 why it's not 0.8. The Management Board can't measure that. Of course, he can't measure it because he won't, he won't. After all, most of them chose these people at the National Council. They're your people, you have to feed them to keep quiet. You need to feed them to implement the Bologna process of breaking up education in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59834	Time, Mr. Krassic. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59835	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we from the SNS would like to make our point of view about the state of higher education, but certainly of what is today the subject of the debate, which is the amount of compensation for the work of the National Council for Higher Education and Compensation for the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification. We believe that the overall state of highly educated people in our country is not adequate and that it must be significantly improved in the coming period. It is estimated that there is a total of between 6.5 and 7% of the highly educated population in our country, which is significantly less than the EU average and that through the educational process, above all, higher education and other measures, state measures, it should be possible for more of our citizens to acquire higher education and, in this context, to observe and debate today in the People's Parliament on decisions to compensate for the work of these bodies and the Ministry of Science. I am personally sorry that the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science are not present today, but the Rules of Procedure are so determined, that since the Proposer is the Administrative Board, means the Assembly body, then they are not present here. But I think that in a constructive debate, it could be heard from the Ministry's authorities what the Ministry itself has done in terms of improving higher education and what these bodies have done in the past also in terms of raising the quality of teaching and improving higher education. In view of the fact that some information has been published in some places, namely on the activity and contribution of these bodies, precisely by estimating the dignity of these bodies and especially the people present at the National Council for Higher Education, as well as the Accreditation Commission, because, above all, it is about prominent professors of our universities or prominent research workers from the scientific institutes, it is certainly quite a number of those who represent members of these bodies and our academics and I absolutely believe that they are very competent people to do their work in these bodies and that they have been quality-defined in the past period, but I also agree that in the context of this debate, it may have been necessary for the Ministry and these bodies to prepare a report on the past work on which they can or could better assess their work. What is evident and what has been announced by these bodies and the ministry itself is that so far, as far as work is concerned, the Commission for Accreditation, accredited 13 universities, eight state and five private universities, has been accredited around 112 universities, 65 higher schools, vocational studies and five higher schools of academic studies. In these 112 universities, some 1205 studies were accredited and basic studies, master studies, doctoral studies and specialist studies. These data are certainly important for higher education in our country and significant work and efforts have been made to carry out these accreditations, however, I, as a university teacher, believe that an accreditation body, before the world's accreditation body, and this national world should continue to monitor, whether all these colleges that have accredited and documented to meet the conditions for performing educational and scientific research are fully applying everything in the process of education, which they have reported. I think there is absolutely no knowledge that, in a fairly large number of colleges, the fact that it is accredited as a whole and not implemented and that there is quite a deviation there, and I sincerely hope that in the next period, exactly one and the other body, given that they are newly elected, means a number of new members, where the National Council would be extended, and also in the Accreditation Commission, new people have been elected, and I absolutely have no doubt that they are competent for their work, to carry out certain checks, in the end, for a good number of colleges and universities, and there will be a period of re-accreditation, meaning, re-enactment and consideration and fulfillment of the conditions. What I want to bring out here today, that in some colleges and high schools, it is not realized in practice in the way they committed themselves during the accreditation process. At some universities and high schools, a number of students from the number approved by the accreditation process are still enrolled. Students are enrolled in non-student departments for colleges and higher vocational schools, and they are not, or have not received accreditation. Furthermore, students are enrolled in student programmes that have not received accreditation. So there is, even though the ministry has specifically warned students this year and issued a list of just accredited universities and universities, but I still think there are some institutions that are enrolling students without getting any more accreditation. Furthermore, student programmes are not implemented according to a curricula that has been reported or approved in the accreditation process. The teaching on individual cases shall not take place according to the force declared and approved in the accreditation process. Furthermore, the size of classes and exercises groups does not comply with quality standards. In universities and higher schools, the number and structure of teachers and associates differs from who is registered and approved in the accreditation process. The number of students enrolled in doctoral studies, and they are like a new form of education, in fact introduced, is not in line with, above all, the number of competent teachers and mentors. Teachers who do not meet the standards regarding the required number of published works in magazines with so-called “Tables” (incomprehensible) the lists are hired as teachers and mentors in the teaching process in doctoral studies, which is not even in accordance with the law, which is certainly not of interest to these young people who opt for doctoral studies and tomorrow should represent our new scientific potential. Furthermore, what has also been noted is in the framework of student work monitoring and evaluation, that in practice, in a good number of higher education institutions, no continuous monitoring and evaluation of student growth during the course of the course, and also that there is no adequate follow-up to teaching by students. This exists as an obligation by introducing a Bologna process. The evaluation of students is not organised according to advance expenditures and the most frequent follow-up evaluation is carried out in the so-called ‘. The examination deadlines and the amendments of the Higher Education Act have been introduced as a regular deadline, although we know that those who have moved to the Bologna process essentially should be evaluated during the teaching process and only the final part of the examinations to be completed within the specific test period. What has also been noted and what needs to be checked in the near future by these bodies whose fees we are talking about today, is that as far as teachers and co-workers are concerned, there are not as many teachers as are reported in the accreditation process and that there has been a reduction in the number of co-workers and teachers compared to the number of envisaged accreditation solutions. Certainly, accordingly, it is also necessary to assess how this affects the implementation of the teaching process and the average burden on teachers and associates. In some universities, new teachers and co-workers are also involved, and there is no real assessment of the competence to carry out teaching and verify these competences. All in all, there are many elements that should be checked in the next period, related to non-teaching staff, material resources, the self-evaluation of the teaching process is not properly implemented, in a good number of colleges and these results are not public at these educational institutions. What I want to say further, and what I have raised in this Parliament about two months ago, publicly in the form of a parliamentary issue, and in writing, I have asked that parliamentary question, which was partly about not implementing the standards of accreditation in the university I work at, it is the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, the Department of Veterinary Medicine, where in the educational process, because of the inadequate relationship of school management, especially the Dean, that does not carry out everything that has been accredited, and after that I have had, and today I have personal discomfort, as much as I am severely resented, and also threatened, that I will be cut off from working relations. To be honest, and I expect that this may happen these days at that university because there is no realistic and serious view of everything that I am and a group of teachers from that department that has brought out and directed both to the Rector and the Regional Secretariat for Education and the President of the District Government. I want to ask the President of the Assembly again from this place because I have the knowledge that nothing concrete has yet been done. I would also simply like to say to those who condemn me not to give up all of these requirements that have been made, above all, with the desire to teach the process of what I personally participated in in the establishment of that study, to be demoted and not implemented in accordance with the accreditation carried out. On the other hand, and everything that I have raised in my parliamentary question, and as far as the abuses of the office and the position of the dean and certain corruption or criminal activities are concerned, I will insist that those in general are being questioned and that people in college and the general public find that out, not afraid that it can happen to me that as a teacher who has been working at that university for 10 years just because someone didn't like it being interrupted. Finally, I would like to underline once again that we believe that compensation should be fixed for all people involved in these bodies, and the National Council for Higher Education and Compensation for the Commission's work on accreditation. We tend to the opinion of a number of MPs that, compared to the present time, this fee may well be high. We ourselves have proposed an amendment to make a certain correction. These people who need to do an extremely important and state-owned job should have both compensation and value that in the coming period they will do so responsibly and in quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59836	Thank you, Mr. Machine. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm concluding a joint single search. This ended the morning part of today's session. I'm setting up a work break based on article 87. Today we will work longer than 18.00 hours to discuss details of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Snezana Malović, the minister of justice, also attended Jovan Ćosic, head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the group at the Ministry of Justice. We welcome the minister and members of her cabinet. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Miković, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Božidar Delić, Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Filip Stojanović, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Boris Marković, Dejan Mirović, Milovan Radovanovic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Vitomir Plužarić, Dusan Marić, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Babilić, Zoran Babić, Igor Baić, Igor Šilić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kismarton, Milan Knezić, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljan Babiljan Babijana Milajić and Žaljadjan Milajić, Igor Žarić, Boražar Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Milica Radovic, written on the way, withdrew the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Code. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill's proposal in particular. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milorad Krstin, who is not in the O.R., but, interestingly, appeared in the electronic system. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59838	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS Mr Dejan Mirovic has tabled an amendment to Article 2 of Article 1 point 14. After saying, "examination procedure" is added to the word "investigation". It's about being left out of the investigation that needs to be found at the institute for the initiation and conduct of the criminal proceedings. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted, because the following provisions say that there is also a criminal investigation. Therefore, it also says that the criminal proceedings in Article 7 have been initiated by the adoption of orders to carry out the investigation. So he's a criminal. It's likely that this was some kind of a failure and we suggest, in order to improve the text of the law, that this provision should be found where we propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59839	Thank you. It's been used for a minute and a half since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59840	Thank you. How bad this bill is at all is best shown that we had an obligation to intervene already in Article 2 and how bad the solution found in Article 2 best supports the fact that we had to submit even three amendments to this article. This amendment, which I have submitted, refers to erasing a degree of doubt, primarily because such definitions are aimed at introducing something that is unknown to criminal-processing law, is the assumption of guilt. In fact, these provisions are in complete contrast with Article 3. The bill, which says everyone is considered innocent until his guilt is found in a judicial decision. Such a solution contained in Article 2 is not only contrary to this decision in the draft law in Article 3, but also to the Constitution itself, as well as to the applicable international legal documents. Such provisions do not know the modern laws of criminal proceedings, and I am alive interested in where did the legislator, or the one who wrote this text of the law, take this provision? Especially unusual is this division of indirect and direct evidence, which has absolutely no practical significance in deciding. It has exclusive theoretical significance and its place, or place to define such definitions, is not in this bill. But a much bigger observation than the one I've just made is just introducing a presumption of guilt. This is about an extremely dangerous intention by the legislator. She gets her full meaning when she completes herself with what constitutes the very essence of this law, which is to eliminate the principle of truth from the law and then she only realizes what the right intention of this promoter is and then we just come to an extremely dangerous ground when these provisions apply themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59841	Thank you. You're also an authorised representative and half a minute away from time has been used. Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. You have your word, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have submitted an amendment to the proposed provision in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 19. The proposal wrongly norms the question of doubt, fundamental doubts, indications and legitimate doubts. First of all, by the provision of Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been prescribed that a person suspected of committing a crime could only be detained on the basis of the court's decision if detention is necessary in order to carry out the criminal proceedings. Therefore, it is necessary for this proposed norm to agree with the Constitution, or parliament, and in that case it can be applicable. Because there are no colors in the Constitution, but in the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure, there's a lot of it. I propose that this amendment be adopted because it improves the text and defines more precisely the norm proposed. This way, it would be a question of doubt and reasonable doubt and even the introduction of a reasonable doubt. I think a better solution is to accept this as a reasonable doubt, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59843	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59844	Thank you. In this Article, point (25) is one of the terms used in the law, and the meaning is explained to him, and that term is "another permanent community of life". I've never heard of it. What is this other permanent community of life? This is where you explain that it is a community of two people who, for a period of time and mutual obligations, have the features of family life. Why not three faces, why not five faces? What do you mean, what is the second permanent community of life that has the features of family life and consists of two faces? That's very interesting. What if it's the roommates, they're five, they're having lunch together, they're eating, they're sleeping, and it's taking a long time, and they don't know how long it's gonna take, they can't say, maybe a year, two, three, maybe five, maybe 15. It's also some community of life. According to all the characteristics, they have the qualities of family life. Are we also going to ensure that these individuals are freed from testimony in criminal proceedings? Is that what we're gonna do? Or maybe you were thinking of something else entirely? If it's two people who live like they're in a family, maybe they're brothers from uncles living in the same apartment, one doesn't have another apartment, and this one's with him, and then they live so well together, cook together, eat lunch, and they don't know how long it'll take. Is that it? You have to explain to me what this is about, because this institute "another permanent community of life" neither knows the Constitution nor knows the laws. If you explain to me that it's something else, that it's something that's a surrogate of a marriage relationship between a person who can't relate to the character of an out-of-marriage community or marriage, then it's already something completely different and it's something that our legal system doesn't allow. You can't introduce it to a small door through the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's not right, and you'd have to leave that out. Our amendment goes that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59845	Just one notice. We've been informed by RTS that today's transmission will be up to 16.55 hours, and everything else will go on a delayed broadcast after 23.00 hours. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59846	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Malovic, it is really unclear how you were literally playing with definitions in this legal text. My colleagues were talking about a degree of doubt. You are practically introducing indications and direct evidence into the legal text, and experts say it existed only during the Inquisition period, not in modern legal systems. You said about deprived freedom that it was an arrest. Believe me, we could have submitted an amendment that instead of jail, there was a roast, an abstention, a blank or something, and then this law seemed even funnier than you suggested. We don't understand what the Code of Criminal Procedure means to define an organized criminal group and organised crime. The fact is that these definitions exist in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia and they do not belong here. I said that this law is too much to deal with, that it contains certain provisions that are contrary to each other, which are contradictory, which are completely unnecessary and unclear. So I suggest you accept the DSS amendment and these points that Mrs Radovic and Mr Aligrudic, and I, in this amendment, have suggested that they be deleted, deleted from the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59847	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In addition to a number of interventions precisely to Article 2 which deals with explaining the meaning of the term applied in this Code, the SNS considers it necessary to explain the concept, i.e. the meaning of the term "judgment within a reasonable period of time". The amendment that we have proposed is: "A trial within a reasonable period of time is the shortest necessary time to carry out the procedure and to pass a judicial verdict that cannot be more than three years", and at the end of all explanations, expressions, without disturbing the order of members or explanations themselves, nor the laws in general. However, the proponent's argument that the introduction of an explanation of the trial would be within a reasonable period of time, i.e. the expression, would be pure formalism. You have also heard comments on what this code deals with and what terms it defines, i.e. meanings and ambiguities, in terms of what the esteemed colleague Aligrudic said, which is the second permanent community of life. If our system does not require the notion of a trial, i.e. the meaning of a trial within a reasonable period of time, and that it stands in Article 2, then I do not see the reason or concept of the meaning of the term "police", the general known thing is and accepted and other acts regulated, that it stands within the law. You probably didn't have in mind the fact that in our judiciary so far they've been well-known and conducted for years, very often, which have come to antiquity and not just obsolescence in the matter of criminal prosecution, but also in the matter of the execution of criminal sanctions. That's why we had in mind that this should be defined. If it goes further through the law, and if Article 14 stands for this meaning, i.e. the title – trial within a reasonable period, it was absolutely necessary because of the practice of our judiciary and all cases and before the reformed judiciary and known cases, long-term processes, to include this in terms of the meaning of this code. It is quite inadmissible to leave this explanation to a further part of the code and it is quite normal, even if you had thought about this three-year period, if we have in mind, it was necessary to define that, given our case-law and long-term processes, that this time-limit should have been framed for trial and that is why we have also suggested before the SNS to explain the meaning of the term "judgment within a reasonable period". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59849	There's a Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59850	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel it is necessary to give some explanations regarding Article 2. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure. This bill contains the meaning of the term. Some laws have it, some laws don't have it. The opinion of the Working Group working on the drafting of this bill was to introduce a formula. In the Law of Prosecution, which we will discuss tomorrow, there is no meaning of expression. It's just, as a bill promoter, I took it as a relevant position of the Working Group. As regards certain points contained in this article, I consider it necessary to clarify points 17, 18 and 19, where the concepts are introduced, such as: the basis of doubt, reasonable doubt or reasonable doubt. Simply, they determine certain stages of the process, given the new concept of criminal proceedings we intend to introduce into our legal system. I would also point out that the existing Code of Criminal Procedure also knows certain terms. Of course, not as systematized as it was done in Article 2. It's a bill of law. For example, in Article 21 when it comes to the investigation, it is said that the investigation is being launched against a particular person when there is a reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime, etc. I know you know all this, but that's what I'm saying for the citizens of Serbia. As for the definition of organised crime, it exists in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure, but of course it is not systematized as it was done here. As far as the expression goes, the long-term community of life, that's what we can do. The only answer I can give you is that this definition has been downloaded from the Family Code. It exists in the Family Code and was taken over from there in the Bill on Criminal Procedure. Another amendment was regarding time, where it is necessary to limit deadlines for the duration of certain phases of proceedings. This was not done for the simple reason that there were negative experiences, when it was done in some of the previous criminal code. You yourself were aware of the fact that several times in the congregation the law was changed because of the fact that deadlines would be extended. That is why we have defined that deadlines are not defined in this way. Of course, I honestly agree that they should last as short as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59851	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic Replica? [[Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Short replica.]] Yeah. ) Mr Aligrudić, a short replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59852	She's always short, because it takes two minutes. The permanent community of life that you have led to say that it has been taken over from Family Law, there is something else. There's a permanent community of life out there, but not in the Semantic sense, another permanent community of life limited by the number of persons they make up. No, you said two faces here. Look closely at the Family Law. A second permanent community of life consisting of two faces. I asked you, why not three faces? Why not? You have two brothers and one sister, but they're not born, of uncles and they share the same household together, for years they live and they have this one apartment that they inherited from their fathers who died, so they live and live like that for the rest of their lives, neither women nor get married. You see, aren't they in a permanent community of life that has the forms of family life? Yeah. Why are you shutting one of them down? Now that you're introducing a term, why do you say two faces and why turn it off? That's the essence of the story. You didn't answer that question here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59853	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59854	Also, a short replica, two minutes. There is no question that there is a concept in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I wish this code was very clear, there's no need for a term. Given how he was written, it is necessary that there be a term, but that will not yet distance us from what needs to be a definition of the given concept. He's taking us on a completely wrong path. When you explained points 17, 18 and 19, these are the key points in this Article 2. They directly introduce the presumption of guilt, rather than the assumption of innocence. There's a presumption of innocence. It's something that needs to exist in the basic text of the law, like something that's undeniable. If you say so, I'm not quoting all three points, I'm quoting point 18. -based suspicion is a set of facts that directly indicate that a particular person is a perpetrator of a crime, you say that the person has actually committed a crime and that it is wrong. Such a definition must not stand in such a law on criminal proceedings, because it should constitute the basis of criminal proceedings. In the end, what do you need the Code of Criminal Procedure, if you introduce a presumption of guilt, if you have erased the truth as the basic principle of criminal proceedings, then why do you need a criminal code? If you've introduced a prosecutor's truth with unequal parties, then what do you need a criminal trial for anyway? Simply, the suspect, the accused or accused, at the beginning, sentence him and finish the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59855	The title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59856	As an SRS parliamentary group, Mr. People's MP, Milorad Buha, we have tabled an amendment to Article 7. We suggested improving the text of the law and giving it an adequate title. In our opinion, Article 7 should stand – replaced by words, started instead of words. It's a little bit more logical, and it points to a provision that speaks to the institute that it's referring to right now. This is because it wouldn't be clear to launch a criminal trial. Instead of saying – it starts, it's a real definition and a real title. We believe that in this proposal on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because I don't think this is a new law. Gentlemen Members of the People and the Professional Public, this is not a new law, this is a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. How come now what I'm saying? This is also well in the provisions of this proposal, that about 50% of the provisions have been taken over from the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, the system of the Code of Criminal Procedure and a number of provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act were adopted in 2006 and adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's the only case in history that one law has been passed without a single day being applied. Madam Minister, the other day you said that you had taken over the system and that you had taken over the provisions of a law that could not be applied and which was absolutely unusable as such. In the history of Serbian legislation, I remind you, there is no record of any law being passed without being applied on a single day. This was related to this law, through a number of remarks and criticisms from the professional international public. Mrs. Malovic, this isn't a new law. You'll agree. You confirmed it. You can answer me now and not agree with me, and I will not agree with you, because I claim what you yourself have confirmed has been taken over, norms have been taken over, that, by taking into account this bill, a greater number of provisions have been taken over from the current code and from the code dating back to 2000 and 2001, respectively. It would be good, i.e. this is a good basis and a good basis for making a new criminal code, not for cheating, especially as you said the task force had been doing for three years. If so many members and provisions have been copied from the applicable law and have been copied from the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, therefore, which has not been applied for a single day, which is the new law, I cannot understand. Here, let the professional public appreciate whether this is a new law or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59857	Ms Natasa Jovanovic was submitted to the 7th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59858	We have submitted an amendment to Article 7, where we are looking for a erasure of Section 3 and 4. Mrs. Malovic, the SRS has been pushing against the shortened procedure since the beginning, because we believe that each defendant and his defence should have enough time to appear before the prosecution and the court in the preparation and proof of material and other truths with the complete documentation they need to defend the defendant. We refer here to this principle of material truth in the criminal-law process, because it is the basis of such a process and because we believe that the shortened procedure is someone, conditionally said, a solution which allegedly ensures the efficiency of the prosecution and the court, but therefore violates fundamental rights. Starting from the presupunction of innocence, that no one is guilty until proven guilty, of course it is necessary, and it advocates the SRS, to provide enough time to confirm, or establish, the truth, and the court should also do so on official duty, and not just so easily cross over it. You are well-known for the case of deception, public harassment committed by Tomislav Nikolic in one of the interviews, several months ago, when he accused our president, who has been in The Hague prison for nine years, of allegedly ordering Nikolic's assassination through some impeccable criminals. You are also familiar with the fact, which the entire Serbian public now knows, that the republican public prosecutor said absolutely nothing to do with Prof. Vojislav Seselj has nothing to do with those criminals, whom Nikolic apostrophyd as a traitor and as a liar. Now, here, you see how principled we are when it comes to proving that truth. We believe, since we have filed criminal charges against the liars, Tomislav Nikolic, that he too should have enough time to defend himself against that criminal complaint, but he cannot do so, because the truth is only one, the one confirmed by that letter by the Republic Public Prosecutor. The truth is that he tried in such a way, not only to upset the public, but to accuse a man who has been in The Hague for nine years, who has no ability to defend himself effectively until the end, which is there, which would be said, on the justice of God, who without any proof of what that so-called. The tribunal has been spending nine years on the burden there. Therefore, we believe that such suspects have committed this crime, and we believe that, in the end, it is clear to you that Nikolic has committed such an act and many others charged with it by the SRS, starts with spending and misuse of party money, by stealing the blank resignations of our MPs, to appear nicely, not to hide and to present evidence of such claims. Of course, they are gone, he lied, as he lies and deceives Serbian citizens that some alternative and quasi opposition to Tadic's regime is, in fact, implementing the same policy as Boris Tadic, even more extreme in some views. Here, let's say, specifically about selling our southern province of KIM. Now it is much easier for Serbian citizens to see that truth, and as far as everyone else is concerned, I think of citizens who are suspected, accused, they should, in our party's opinion, and that is why it is necessary to accept this amendment, that they have enough time to prepare them and their lawyers for their defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59859	Just to keep in mind the fact that everyone is innocent until the verdict finds them guilty. Here you go, Mr. Rogovic. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59860	Mr. Novakovic, you were part of the presentation of the previous speaker, and you were not present in part because of, probably, the obligation, but Article 107 was violated. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Given the stenographic notes, that's what's going to be confirmed. I can't go into discussion with you right now, because you're not even aware of the words the previous speaker said, so I'm asking you to continue to discuss matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59861	I am present all the time, and in the style of the MP, which he presents his views, opinions and beliefs, I absolutely cannot influence until the moment it takes place within the borders of the Rules of Procedure and in relation to the subject on the agenda. If you are not satisfied, in the day of voting, the Assembly will plead. You're not satisfied? No, I don't. ) Okay, the Assembly will declare in the voting day whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word is Miss Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59862	Can I have a word based on the replica? No, I don't. ) Then I report to the Rules of Procedure and advertise Article 27. So, Mr. Novakovic, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you gave your word to the MP who abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and you should have warned him. He also told you that you're someone who doesn't know anything, half of you listen, half of you don't listen. He's probably not informed that you're a lawyer, and it's someone who has a long-standing lawyer's internship. You understand very well, Mr. Novakovic, that by illustration and example of Nikolic, the liars, the additional argument you wanted me to offer, which was perfectly understood by Mrs. Malovic, in support of those who are to be prosecuted in front of the competent court that enough time to prepare their defences. But he answered, this previous abuser, and he also stole the SRS mandate, to say something, and he doesn't know what he's talking about. So, I expect that the court, before which Nikolic should appear, will establish the truth, and the truth is only one, that he wanted and that he did it consciously, because he is a corrupt man and because he knows that the president of the party has been imprisoned in The Hague tribunal for nine years, to accuse him of having been involved in ordering his murder, an assassination on him. You can see for yourself that he tried to do such a thing to himself, and fortunately, because we don't want anyone to have any harm in that sense, and unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia who he deceived by wanting to sacrifice, that he wants to bear the burden, etc., showed what kind of man he is. Because that's what he is, and because the WikiLeaks of these days also publishes dispatches in which he clearly confirms what we said, that he is with help... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59863	Thank you. Therefore, the explanation of the alleged violation of article 27 is identical and factual and legal dimension as I have given to the previous MP who warned me of insulting the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, in the day of voting, the Assembly will plead. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I am not satisfied with your procedure, it is not gentlemanly, you could have let me finish the sentence. ) The Rules of Procedure determines a time when you can advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I take this as if you're not satisfied. Thank you, too. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59864	So, in addition to the fact that this law changes the basic rule that no one can be found guilty until a judicial verdict finds it, and even though this law knows another system of proof, where the material truth in the process is not relevant, but what matters is what the prosecutor claims and asks to be carried out as evidence, this law is filled with various amazing definitions and structures that have no justification, I want to ask you, Mrs Malovic, why did you reject our amendment to Article 9? Let's analyze it. You wrote in Article 9 that any application of torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment, force, threat, coercion, deception, medical procedure and other means affecting freedom of will or extorting recognition or any other statement or action by the accused or other participant in the proceedings is prohibited and punishable. Let's just stick to two words, and that's "everyone" and "force." First, "everyone" is pleonasm. If somewhere you say that torture, torture, extortion, deception, or force is forbidden, it is understood that each one is not a single one. Maybe there's something we can discuss about that term "everyone." What you obviously didn't understand, or the people who wrote the answer to the amendment, is the essence of using force, Mrs. Malovic. You cannot ban any use of force in Article 9, and then have a confiscation of an item in Article 147 which, as different than force, can be taken away. How are you going with the delivery measure, where you have a means of coercion when you bring in, and that means force? I suppose you think the police who are bringing in the defendant will ring the doorbell and say the following thing: "Are you Mr. Petar Petrovic? You are charged with the proceedings and we have a warrant to bring you in. However, we do according to Article 9. The Code of Criminal Procedure cannot apply force, so we ask you to come with us," and he says, "I won't, I don't care," and they say, "Look, we're going to have to apply force, which is not force, by various methods. We'll sleep outside your door, we'll whine, we'll cry, we'll scream all night until you finally disagree with yourselves and come to court with us. "So, most beautiful please, do not reject amendments that are reasonable and make sense. In our amendment, we said that all of this is forbidden as you claim: the application of torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment, the use of illegal force, threats, coercion, deception, medical procedures and other means that affect freedom of will. It's about the defendant's testimony or the witness in the proceedings. Or any other shop with the defendant and his presence, his obligation to be present in court. It's a store we expect from him. How can you forbid the use of force in case someone won't come? It's just illogical. That's why we said in the definition of banning acts, such as torture, deception, application of force, torture, etc., we then said "illegal force". This is not pleonasm in a legal sense, but we are helping you not to contradict Article 9 with other members that involve the application of force. Please accept this amendment for rationality and elemental brains.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59865	The People's Messenger, John Palalic, has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59866	Of course, I'm joining my colleague Milos Aligrudic. I really don't understand, Mrs. Malovic, that you haven't seen the problem in this article, especially what such a solution, as you suggest, is directly contrary to the solutions you've made for police jurisdiction. You fully derogate the powers of police, especially Article 286 where it is referred to the powers of police as one of the most important actors in the process, especially in the investigation and investigation process. Try to explain to us how it's possible without the force to make sure that the unsub or accomplice doesn't escape, as the person whose presence should be secured in the process. So, a serious problem will arise if every possibility of using force is ruled out. The police have, according to the solutions you proposed in the law, a very important jurisdiction in criminal proceedings, especially in the investigation and investigation, as I said. In fact, you've disenfranchised the court, put it in a passive position in an important part of its jurisdiction, not to mention how important the court is in criminal proceedings, and now you're going to disprove the police. Indeed, this criminal case will turn into a litigation. There will be serious problems in the application of this law, because with full law, the defendants of the accused and the accused will say – gentlemen, under Article 9, you have no right to apply force towards the person I represent and who I defend. So pay attention to this, accept our amendment. When you write the law, you take care of what formulations you take, so you don't create chaos, and it's already going to happen, I say, and this is going to cause further problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59867	Mr. Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59868	Mr. Novakovic, with one concrete example, I will resolve this dilemma, not only about the amendments but also about Article 9. It sounds very nice when the law says, "No torture, no inhumane treatment and extortion," but it just sounds nice and nothing else. Here's another example. We had a situation in The Hague that he testified and said that Zoran Djindjic had taken him to the Kosutnjak and convinced him how important it was for Serbia that he was testifying against Vojislav Seselj and that he was saying things. Mrs. Malovic, I don't know if you've started any proceedings. You're not. We had Bruno Vekaric, who was putting pressure on witnesses. Is there any case against Bruno Vekaric? It's not. We had a testimony where he pressured Aleksandar Stefanovic by Batic, Zoran Djindjic -- go spit on Seselj, which is very important for Serbia heading towards the EU. What has this country done against these persons who do not respect this ban on individual freedom as a defendant, potential suspect, potential witness or any kind of involvement in any procedure? Nothing's been done. How many court proceedings do we have where individuals from the police, state security, affect witnesses, defendants, etc., in order to prejudge the entire criminal case? What do we do when the police, say, arrest some and then display a five-minute report in the diary and then you see Dragan Djajic in that position? Isn't that torture, isn't that cruel treatment, isn't that an influence on the public and the court to prejudge the future outcome of the case? When an individual performs an illicit shop or violates this ban, it somehow seems reasonable and can be resolved, but when a man who applies force has a uniform, so only the uniform says that his coercion is legal, I'm sorry, please, can we believe that? How many proceedings have been brought against authorized officials for abuse of their official position? A little. Why? Unless a cop fits into the police environment or BIA. Then it's not clear at all why you put in these declarations when there's no sanctions. You're going to say that there's a sanction in Criminal Law for these acts against justice, etc., and who's going to initiate this procedure, when they're headed by judicial organisations, "retors" and those who burned down the National Assembly, when you're going to pay attention to the United States, when Sam Nazaro sits in your court for years? We're talking business secret yesterday. On every floor of the ministry there's a man from abroad who's killing you, watching you, and he's not a neuropsychiatrist, he's an intelligence officer. Smile. What do you know about the state? Why did you write this when you didn't apply it? Why don't you start a procedure against these people who put pressure on them? Why don't you start a trial against those people who scare witnesses? Why don't you take the case against Natasha Kandic, who threatens witnesses, who witness that the keys to his apartment - boy, calm down, stay there until I arrange a transfer for you, so he takes them to Sarajevo, then takes them to The Hague, then takes them to Pristina, and organizes tourist trips from Zvornik to Belgrade? What kind of pressure is being put on both the judiciary and this, and you're entering this provision, and now you're ratting out about one word here. He's very good and he's very good and he's very good and he's a member. What's a member worth and an amendment isn't applied. It will apply to some Djok over some border that affects neighbor Peru, but it will not apply at home, and he is running a little bit with statements to justify security around his house. And by the way, as State Secretary at the Department of Justice, the law-abiding cases at the execution, he's doing some liftings and he's returning to the first-degree procedure for his office to finish, and you don't think he knows it. Well, you know everything that happens in Serbia. It's impossible in Serbia that some secret lasts for a long time. Well, you'll be biting each other, and then you'll be snitching, and you'll be coming to me to complain about each other. You've found a place to feel sorry for. You know, how compassionate I am when you accuse each other, I want to help you both, just so there's a difference between two cells.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59869	The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59870	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People, of course, I would like to ask that the time I will use for some of my arguments be taken away from the time of the authorised representative, since I am an authorised representative in front of the LDP. I'd ask, I'd go back to the metric, and I'd go back to Article 9, and I'd bring out one of my impressions, or I'd say I'd be dissatisfied with mixing politics in the profession. It is that politics is all present in this House, but when it comes to criminal proceedings, let's first ask the profession and make there's less policy in our reasoning, and a little more logic. I have the impression that some of the amendments were rejected because the representatives of the government were guided by logic, that is, paying attention to who submitted the amendments, and not what the amendments were contained, because that concludes that all our amendments, i.e. the amendments of the LDP parliamentary groups, as well as one good amendment of the DSS colleagues, have been rejected, and the arguments are very empty to me, in some ways, unsatisfactory. I'd like to return to article nine alone now. There are some parts of this article here that defy the rules of logic and I don't understand why the legislator had such a relationship with an amendment that exclusively went towards improving the content of this article and that what defies logic rules simply corrects itself. This concerns our three amendments that we have submitted and which are currently concerned by the arrogance of the state, or are aimed at simply moving the arrogance of the state away because there is no place for it in the modern criminal code. It is the amendments with such a content that are rejected, precisely by the arrogance of the legislator. This also concerns Article 9, which is quite correct, the amendment to Article 9 that colleagues have done quite correctly and which really has the function of defiing logic rules, to return to normal. Really, I don't know why this amendment is, I really don't know why our amendments were rejected. I thank you for your word and for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59871	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Here you go, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59872	I thank Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Chairman and what would happen to Mr. Novakovic to use the words used by this esteemed home, speaking and commenting on a fellow MP and with that head of Parliament, and I would not rather stick to it, but it is truly amazing that you are realizing that no violation of dignity has been committed. I would continue in the spirit of the reasoning of the amendments to Article 9 and my dignity does not allow me to address you in this way neither to you nor to anyone, as others do and to support what the previous speakers have said on the proposal from the DSS to Article 9, and also, if you enter into what we, as the SNS parliamentary group, have proposed, and this is literally a clearer definition of that member, or that provision and more precise definition. If Mrs. Ministers has insight that Article 2 has regulated, i.e. the highlighted meaning and concepts of the words of the police and I do not wish to return to its meaning in Article 13 and the authority of the procedure in Article 15. You can't tell from the proposed Article 9 what other participants are in the process? In this case, may other participants in the procedure be, or may the provisions of this article on the bodies in which the humiliation is carried out, be humiliating, threatening, coerced, deceived, in order to affect free will and extortion of recognition, do these apply to the torture of prosecutors, such as defenders, police of damaged witches, witnesses or just some of them and on whose part? It may be Mrs. Minister's case, but in Serbian, what is meant to be placed must be put, especially such an important criminal code, and therefore we believe that this Article 9 with everything that you have predicted should also experience a part of the amendments we have accepted through the amendments we have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59873	The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59874	I thank the MPs who discussed this amendment. You are aware that we have had very short time to analyse all the amendments that have been submitted, but I am deeply convinced that in this debate today, on all amendments, we have the opportunity to exchange opinions and this opportunity I want to say that the DSS MPs are confident that we should accept this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59875	Thank you, Madam Minister. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The word is Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59876	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 10th discusses limiting the freedom and rights of the defendant in the process. The Serbian Radical Party has also expressed its view through the amendment to Article 7 and through the amendment to this article that we are otherwise against the restrictions of freedom and the rights of the defendant in the process. This is because we feel that these various restrictions can ultimately be injured by Article 32. The Constitution, which is the right to a fair trial of Article 33, which speaks of the special rights of the accused and of Article 34, which guarantees legal certainty in criminal law. We believe that each defendant has the right to be provided with sufficient time, to be provided with legal counsel so that he can adequately defend himself. Therefore, in this Article, Article 10(3) suggested that point 2 be deleted. It is otherwise – determining the main search or hearings for the imposition of criminal sanctions in a shortened procedure. It's precisely because our position is to avoid a shortened procedure. You could also see that, as far as points 1 and 3 are concerned, we have not proposed amendments here and we believe that, when it comes to such situations, it can be implemented and regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59877	Thank you. The title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59878	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, on the basis of Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the National Republic of Serbia Assembly, I submitted on behalf of the SRS the amendment to the draft law on criminal proceedings. In the title above Article 11, the word "procedure", is replaced by the words "procedure bodies", and in Article 11(1), the word "procedure", is replaced by the words "procedure bodies". It would be better if the procedure preceded the word "criminal," because that would make it clearer. I point out that the right to oral and written translation is applied also to persons who are blind, deaf or not present. Article 32(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These persons too need to be guaranteed the right to communicate properly, otherwise those persons are provided with rights from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international legal acts and contracts that our country has ratified. Out of the blue, I believe this amendment is effective and should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59879	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The word is Mr. Varga Laszlo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59880	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, I apologize in advance because my discussion will be a partial discussion in principle, but I think it is necessary that I may reach an explanation as to why we continue to think that our amendments are worth the attention and valuable support. First of all, I want to express our dissatisfaction with the way this law, i.e. laws, and the Law on litigation, is being passed. I think this emergency procedure and all this is how these two extremely important laws are passed, that it's unacceptable, and we've just realized that the Ministry didn't have time to analyse the amendments, precisely because of the problem of time and simply, we can't understand why this is done, when we know that this law has been written for three years. By leaving this aside, I would move partly on our amendments, in that sense, if we were not well-intentioned, we could have the feeling that the rejection of these two amendments is the result of some rematch that we are participating in a vote on the railway law, and I want to believe that it is not, I hope that you will finally convince us. On the other hand, if that is not the case, then the least that stands is one misunderstanding, or as the circumstances that the task force would have to know when writing certain bill proposals. This applies to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it applies to some other laws, and now I'm going to do a little digression in relation to the Rehabilitation Act. At first glance, there's no connection between these two laws, but we think there's a connection. This relationship exists because of a principle in the Law, i.e. the Rehabilitation Law, and this principle was the principle of collective responsibility, and there are at least three principles that contain, on the one hand, the Law...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59881	Respecting your note that you will speak more in principle, I ask you anyway about this code which is on the agenda. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59882	Yeah, all it takes is to finally explain the whole situation. So at first glance, there is no connection, but you see how there is, namely, this bill of law that I was talking about contains that principle. On the other hand, the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the Criminal Code, contains in itself the opposite three principles, primarily the principle of which there is no crime without law, and on the other hand there is no penalty without law, and on the third hand the principle of which there is no penalty without guilt. These are extremely important principles and it is from the area of criminal law. These principles speak of individual responsibility. Why am I saying all this? Because the other bill I was talking about contained exactly the opposite principle, the principle of collective responsibility. Why does all this matter? Because some decisions from the end of World War II remain in Serbia's legal system, they are in force and are based on the principle of collective responsibility. After my presentation, I will give you two such decisions because I would like to or would like to help the Ministry if the new bill on rehabilitation, i.e. considering amendments to the Restitution Law, is on the agenda, so that you have knowledge of the complete circumstances where all these laws are passed and that we do not pass any other laws that are contrary to the Criminal Procedure Act or Criminal Law. That was the reason, this long introduction, because I just wanted to prove one fact, that's the circumstance, and it's that when there's a misunderstanding of a particular situation, then it's extremely difficult to understand and in this case, some amendments. I'd like to move on to the amendments in particular now. Therefore, as regards the specific amendment to Article 11. The bill, I want to say next. We have proposed an amendment that is entirely identical to the solution contained in the CAP, and we have rewritten that provision. We simply can't understand the situation of two procedural laws being passed without having the same solutions, and they regulate the same matter, so using language in this case, and that's the question. You stated in your explanation that the position of the 2nd member contains what we asked for in our amendment. Item 2 of Article 11. The proposal for a criminal procedure code states that – the procedure is conducted in the language and letter that is officially used in the body of the procedure, in accordance with the law. You will admit that this formulation is not identical to the one contained in the CAP and we have proposed, according to which in the courts, in whose areas the members of national minorities live, their languages and letters are officially used. If that's the case, if this isn't identical, then you couldn't explain that these two things are identical. That's what it comes from. There is, unfortunately, a key misunderstanding, the difference between the language used in the procedure, and it can be Japanese, German, any language, and, on the other hand, the language of the procedure, and it can only be a language that is in official use. It is, of course, Serbian, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in certain situations, languages of national minorities. I think there's a key misunderstanding, and for that reason I needed that long introduction, to explain what's going on when there's one misunderstanding of the circumstances in which a certain law is passed. This applies to our second amendment, which has been rejected, and it refers to Article 438. That member regulates an essential breach of the rules of procedure. It's the same explanation for the refusal of amendments, that what we're looking for is already written in law. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The law states that a violation of procedural rights is essential if it is denied that a minority member uses his own language in the main search and that in his own language he follows the course of the main search. It's written in law. But we didn't ask for that. We asked for a supplement in the sense that if the criminal proceedings were not conducted in the official language of the national minority, and if the legal assumptions were met, that it was also a major breach of the rules of procedure. I'll explain from practice why this is important. When you have one procedure and you have a defendant, a member of the national minority, and in court, he expressed his claim that he wants this procedure to be conducted in his language and if the public prosecutor does not oppose it, then the judge is obliged to conduct the proceedings in that language. And what happens in practice? In practice, in this case, a judge or a larger one provides a translator who stands next to the accused and helps and translates what is happening at the hearing. So it's not official use of language and letters if an interpreter is provided and what happens in the litigation is translated. For this reason, it is not your argument that this situation that we have proposed is already foreseen by the bill. In practice, in this case, if the defendant is convicted and if he declares the appeal and calls for a significant violation of procedural rights, in practice, that appeal in this regard is always rejected, because it is simply a practice such that if an interpreter is provided to him, then it is practically seen in a way that this procedure is conducted in his language. I'll use time and MP groups. (President: You have used the time of the parliamentary group, and the authorised representative is Mr Balint Pastor. You have written authority, filed. All of this means, in this particular case, that minority members in criminal proceedings have one right that they cannot use, that is, they can use but there are no sanctions if the judge does not allow the use of this right. For that reason, we have proposed this amendment. Perhaps that first amendment is less important, but this second amendment is extremely important and practically identical amendment we have submitted to the Law on Prosecution. I would really appeal to you to reconsider these arguments, and on the other hand, and that would be the end of it, that when you consider amendments to the Restitution Law, you should keep in mind everything I've told you about collective guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59883	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59884	I will try to explain to you what our intention was, and I also want to point out that there has always been co-operation between you and the Justice Ministry and that there is no reason not to, in the future, not to mention whether or not we agree on all things, but certainly there is co-operation. Also, I want to point out that accepting or not accepting amendments to this law really has nothing to do with any other law, not with any other fact, but only with whether it can affect the fact that this bill is even better. As far as your first amendment relating to Article 11, which reads: "In courts where national minorities live, their languages and letters are in official use, in accordance with the Constitution and the law", is different from the litigation procedure because there is only one authority in the Law on litigation and in general in the litigation proceedings. We did not accept this for the reason that, under the authority of the proceedings within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is understood, in addition to the court and the prosecution and the police. And in your amendment, it only covers the court. So, for that reason, this first amendment was not accepted. With regard to this second amendment, which applies to Article 438, we will consider it further by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59885	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59886	I just wanted to say that both laws, i.e. one code and another law, should take care of a unique methodology. But since we really have different bodies in the process, I think that the rights of national minorities are not only in terms of the right to use language and letter, but also in respect of all other human rights, in Serbia at an enviable level, and that is the fact that we see every day, all of them and what is uncontestable. As for this part about rehabilitation, I know it's not a topic, but we believe that really when this law comes, the values that we seek – respect for human rights in the EU, that we will apply these values in Serbia, not only for the future but also for the past, and that everything that our fathers and grandfathers have possibly been burdened with, that this generation of politicians will not be burdened and that all the rights we recognise to both the nudity and the Partisans, etc., regardless of the ideological premise, we will also recognise to the members of the Radnogorje Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59887	Mr. Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59888	Just a short replica, which in a formal sense isn't a replica, but I only needed two things to say. On the one hand, I thank you for your openness to reconsider that other amendment you refused, perhaps not understanding what the writer was going to say. As far as this second amendment is concerned, I don't think there's any reason, if there's a problem of technical nature, that one organ in this sentence or two organs has been left out, to make a correction, so that nothing would essentially change. But if there is a readiness, then in that case, this amendment could be acceptable with one technical correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59889	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radovic, please. I apologize, shortly before the entire discussion led by MP Mr Laslo Varga, Mr Mirko Cikiriz and Minister Malovic, of course, referred to the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59890	This is a typical example of unnecessary definition, which only contributes to the excessiveness of the text of the bill. It is said in Article 12 that criminal sanctions on the perpetrator of a criminal offence may only be imposed by the competent court in a criminal proceedings initiated and carried out in accordance with this law. Well, that's understood. I really don't see why this text would burden the text of the law. It is simple, it is clear, only if the legislator did not have anything else in mind, that in Serbia there are interrupted courts or someone who is not in charge of sentence in normal criminal proceedings, so that these places in the law have many. This is not a typical example, the only example, where it goes for unnecessary definition, such examples were also in Article 2, and there are also later and through the text of the whole law. My colleague Miroslav Petkovic, an explanatory member of 2nd, also said that it is unnecessary that in points 33, 34, it is defined what organised crime is, or organized crime group, because it is the matter of another law. We believe that such a provision should simply be deleted with a view to not being burdened by the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59891	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word has first Mr. Palalic, so Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59892	This is indeed a very important member of the very text of the law, and our amendment has just been aimed at removing our key objection to the criminal code here. And in the principle debate, we highlighted the basic problem that is being introduced by this bill, which is the passive role of the court and the fact that the entire criminal proceedings are evened out, I'm talking about the work concerning the main investigation, the litigation process. It's simple, when we look at the role of the court and in the litigation-criminal procedure there's absolutely no difference. But there is a significant difference in the nature of these two procedures. Of course, the state is interested in disclosing a criminal offence in criminal proceedings and determining who is the perpetrator of the crime and, above all, to establish the truth and based on the truth found through the fact that he is making the right verdict. The role of the court cannot be considered a mere observer of the struggle between the prosecutors behind whom the entire state apparatus and the defendant stands. A criminal procedure that is important in each country cannot be seen as a struggle between the two parties in order to achieve mutual interests. There is a much more difficult interest in the state and the state must be engaged not only through the role of prosecutors, because it turns out that the only interest of the state is criminal persecution. It's only important for the state to file a criminal case, and we think it's more important and more important to have the role of the court. We want the court on official duty to participate in criminal proceedings, propose evidence and conduct the entire evidence procedure. You, in your explanation of the rejection of this amendment, are saying that this is stated in Section 4, but there is the possibility that the court may be able to do so. And it comes down to the same thing again. Mrs. Malovic, please take this amendment seriously. He's essential, he's key. We can't look at criminal proceedings like this. Our entire legal tradition is being derrogated and, above all, the nature of the criminal proceedings is being perverted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59893	The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59894	We have submitted, I would say, a key amendment to Article 15, which we asked to erase this solution in the proposal, where it is said that the court is carrying out evidence on a proposal from the parties. We felt it should stand for the court to carry out evidence on official duty if it is true that the idea of a court-leading guide is true, and if the truth is something that tends to be committed in criminal proceedings and, of course, if the aim is just judgment. I'm sorry, I didn't say I'd use time from an authorised representative. This is a key amendment that points to a completely wrong concept set out in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We have no idea that he will be accepted, because he is very different from what is the basic concept of the bill itself. But with this amendment, we had the goal of pointing out once again how true the criminal proceedings are, in the way it's defined here, it doesn't matter at all anymore. It no longer represents any imperative in criminal proceedings. The provision that the court carries out evidence on the party's proposal turns the criminal proceedings into litigation proceedings, where the court decides only within the limits of the request set out in the procedure itself. The court is no longer bound by truth, nor is it in any case his obligation. This is something that will certainly not lead to the satisfaction of justice, and this is exactly the principle of elimination, that is to say the rule introduced by the legislator, which comes down to the elimination of the truth from the criminal proceedings, because it is precisely our key objection when it comes to the draft criminal code. In addition to this key objection, there is also a proof of the passivity of the court which narrows the court solely to overseeing the control of the correctness of the case. From all this comes the full inequality of the parties in the process, as I said in the principle debate, on the one hand you have a public prosecutor who is part of the state's apparatus and who can count at any time on the absolute assistance of that same state apparatus, and on the other hand you have a completely decapitated defendant. How much he will be able to prove his defense, or how much he will be able to bring out the evidence that goes in his favor, depends on how much money he will have. How poor he is, he will not be able to engage an adequate defense, or a quality defender. If he's rich, he'll be able to do it. This is the principle of how parties are not brought into an equal position. Will now, on the other hand, the investigation conducted by the prosecutor be objective, will she be impartial? Of course not. The D.A. won't be obliged to pay any attention to the evidence that comes in favor of the defendant. In addition to the prosecution investigation that will definitely exist and against which, in the principle debate I said, we have nothing if it is clearly defined, but it is not well defined here, so, in addition to the prosecution investigation, there will also be a parallel investigation conducted by the defendant and his attorney. Now the question arises – what are the chances that they will provide evidence on their own in the process? I think their chances are small, especially if we start with Articles 301 and 302 which are just defining the collection of evidence and material for the benefit of the defendant. It says here that the defendant and his defender can collect evidence, for example by hearing the party, if the person gives his consent to such a thing. They can also enter private rooms or rooms that are not open to the public if there is the consent of the one holding the premises. Also, they can take objects and documents from natural or legal persons if they give consent to such a thing. So they weren't brought into an equal position. It's a huge problem with this code. If we leave later and start from Article 302, we just come to the conclusion that they are inequitable. If the suspect and his defender consider it necessary to take some action, if he considers it necessary, a certain evidence store, he will propose to the public prosecutor to do so. Now the D.A. has no obligation to perform that evidence store. He can refuse that, that proposal. In this situation, the defendant and his defender address the judge for the previous proceedings, and the judges for the previous proceedings in this proposal have only an obligation, i.e. only provided that he can adopt it. What if he refuses? It'll become a practice. What's going on in that situation with that evidence store that's supposed to be taken by a public prosecutor? Even if we start with a public prosecutor taking over the shop that the defendant and his defender are demanding, will he carry out the evidence store impartially, correctly and in the manner that the criminal proceedings, or the one that is now in place, require? Of course not. Now, if we move forward, the situation at the main search is even more drastic. The court can order a continuum to collect additional evidence, and only exceptionally can it order that these evidence be presented. It's not his regular authority, it's just a proper exception, that he can only make an exceptional determination to perform such a evidence action. As unfair as the parties are in this criminal proceedings, the best example is that the evidence collected by the public prosecutor during the investigation can be used throughout the criminal proceedings. It's a solution taken from a valid law. There should be a huge difference, because the evidence collected by the judge in the judicial investigation is something completely different from the evidence collected by the state's prosecutor in the prosecution's investigation, because the prosecutor is a party in the process. We can't subdue and bring to the same level of evidence that is collected by the court and evidence collected by a public prosecutor. Furthermore, as the parties are inequitable and that is, it seems to me to be Article 287, but it doesn't matter now because it's an important point. Evidence collected by police can also be used during the entire criminal procedure. I don't mind that certain evidence collected by the police can be used during criminal proceedings. It is, in particular, a confirmation of the taken items, when the defendant is taken away, the case works, the gun, the bullets or any other object. This evidence and fact is still being used as evidence in criminal proceedings. But the way you predicted that the evidence collected by the police in the preliminary procedure could be used throughout the process is something that absolutely gives a lot of authority to the police. I hope the legislator did not come from those measures previously applied in our country, when they were in force of a particular police action, "Sabbe," where many human rights were flagrantly violated and which is why Serbia, which is a fact, has to pay the price. I know the bill promoter, at least I hope, and I'm guessing he didn't come from these provisions. What exactly is the conclusion of my presentation? If you've given the prosecutors jurisdiction to conduct an investigation, that's entirely justified. Then, after the investigation has been completed, the main role in the full procedure in the further criminal proceedings must be the court, if the objective is true and if the objective is a fair judgment. Here it came from a completely wrong assumption that the prosecution investigation must necessarily imply this adversial, or party procedure, which is absolutely not true, if you start from a comparative right, or from an example in parallel law, you will see that there is no such thing in many countries. Let's say, if you want us to take an analysis, a particular country that is a typical representative of continental law, Germany, exactly, that's where you have a prosecutor's investigation but the court is in charge and has a major role, right after the investigation is completed throughout the proceedings. On the other hand, if we take a typical adversial example, or party procedure in the United States, there is no formal investigation at all, there is already a police investigation. It's very disputable that even the evidence supplied by the police can later have the evidence in the process. Of course, it should not be forgotten that there is a jury in the U.S. system, which is worthy of monitoring and estimating the evidence that both parties are carrying out, and ultimately gives its conclusion. Therefore, simply by analysing comparative practice and in general what you wrote in today's bill that we are discussing in particular, I think it is necessary that it be done, primarily in this sense that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59895	Thank you. There are several registered MPs, so I will read the order as reported. First word will be received by Mr. Martinovic, then Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Chikiriz, then Mr. Petkovic, then Mr. Aligrudic. There's no room left. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all, allow Mr. Novakovic to inform the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the Russian Federation Ambassador, Mr. Konuzin, has left this famous security forum held in Belgrade, explaining that the EU and NATO pact are working openly against the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. He made it clear to officials in the Boris Tadic regime that Russia does not want to give it legitimacy. As for the amendments tabled by DSS counterparts, I would like to give one assessment and an analysis that has to do with the draft criminal code, but at the same time lighting up a painful period in the history of the Serbian people, which is the war in BiH that was waged from 1992 to 1995. What's this about? Mrs. Snezana Malovic, as justice minister, is probably familiar with that. The Dayton BiH has launched a prosecutorial investigation of the moment when a part of the international community pressured it to shed light on all facts and circumstances related to crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo, especially during 1992 and early 1993. However, with a cunning conduct of personnel policy in the BiH prosecutor's office, practically BiH prosecutors have misused the right to conduct a criminal investigation. Instead of lighting up and helping to shed light on all the facts and circumstances related to the mass killings of Serbs in Sarajevo during 1992 and 1993, they have completely prevented the public in BiH, the public in Serbia, even the European and world public from being informed in the right way about what was going on in those war days and war years in Sarajevo run by Ali Izetbegovic's government. I will take the opportunity to inform the Minister who has the opportunity to participate in negotiations with BiH authorities and to sign international legal aid agreements with BiH, on several very painful facts. The Sarajevo-based "Free Bosnia" newspaper, Mrs Malovic, published an earthquake letter to a young man who in 1992, when his father was killed in Sarajevo, was a boy. Today it's a successful young man. Because I know him personally and because he's my friend, I'm not going to say his name on purpose. It is a young scientist, who, among other things, wrote a letter in which the next sentence stands – I refer to the editor-in-chief of the list "Free Bosnia": "Dear Uncle Senada, please as Dad's friend, to ask Amor Masovic where the body of the brain is?" "It is a matter of Slobodan Samardzic who was killed in a very painful way by slaughter on 14 May 1992. I've got pictures here from my insights... (President: Mr. Martinovic, please refer to the amendment to Article 15. It doesn't matter in 2006, and it doesn't matter in 1992) Mr. Novakovic, it does. It's about the amendment, and you'll see what it's about. It has to do with Mr. Novakovic and the amendment. God also has something to do with the attempt of a part of the international community, the EU and NATO pact, which today was taught by Mr Konuzin, that Serbia and Serbia are allegedly responsible for all war crimes that took place in BiH and Sarajevo. A completely false performance was created, that the war in BiH was reduced to the idea that the evil and corrupt Serbs from the mountains around Sarajevo, bombed poor and unarmed Muslims. Now I want to convince you that this is not the case and that in Sarajevo during 1992 and 1993, but also later, there have been monstrous crimes against the Serb people, but the truth of the will and of all those Muslims who did not accept the fundamentalist regime of Ali Izetbegovic. Here, as you can see, this is a photograph, Mr. Novakovic, a visual photograph, from the scene, where you can see the fully butchered and mutilated body of Slobodan Samardzic, found, imagine, in Miljačka, in the middle of downtown Sarajevo. (President: I warn you the second time. Why am I telling you all this, Mr. Novakovic? That's what we're waiting to hear. You're a good lawyer and you're a good lawyer. So, the prosecution investigation, Mrs. Malovic, which you are announcing in the bill as a very important newspaper in our procedural legislation, can be in practice very, very dangerous and very dangerous. They're absolutely right, colleagues from the DSS, when they say that you're completely comparing the criminal act with a litigation procedure. The court is deprived of what is important, an investigative principle, which has always been present in our criminal proceedings, is taken away from him by this initiative in gathering evidence, and it comes down to a mere observer of what is happening between the two formally equal but fundamentally unequal parties, the accused, the natural person, and the prosecutor, who is not only the prosecutor, but is also the subject who conducts the investigation in criminal proceedings. This accumulation of two procedural functions, law enforcement authorities and evidence-gathering bodies can in practice cause really harmful consequences when it comes to human rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and on the other hand, can lead to what it has led to in BiH. That when it suits the existing regime, some very serious crimes are committed and the public does not know or know enough about them because it is practically a complete investigative procedure in the hands, not an objective and impartial court, but a prosecutor who is practically an extended arm of the executive authority. All that I was saying, Mr. Novakovic, about BiH, of course I didn't say that I would now insult the Rules of Procedure or you personally or the Honorable Madam Minister, but simply to show you on a very painful case to what extent the prosecution's investigation, which is announced in the bill as a very important newspaper, could be misused. At the same time, Mrs. Malovic, I appeal to you. I do indeed appeal, not only as a folk MP of the SRS, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, that you have in mind these earthquake words from this letter to this young man, directed to the editor-in-chief of "Free Bosnia", where he asks one Muslim to ask another Muslim to know, as the letter says, where his murdered father's body is. Ask also BiH officials, especially the Muslim part of BiH, what about more than four thousand killed Serbs in Sarajevo during the 1992-1995 war? This will make a great contribution, that at least on a spiritual, emotional plan to reduce the pain and suffering of the families of the Serbs killed, but you will do a great work for the Republic of Serbia and for the Serb people in general, which is to divorce a dangerous delusion, a dangerous lie, that the war in BiH comes down to the evil, corrupt, aggressive, to the teeth of the armed Serbs killing poor, unarmed and peaceful Muslims. This is also very important for Serbs who are today tried in The Hague tribunal, who are left to the mercy and mercy of international injustice and armed injustice, in the hands of the US and NATO pact. This will help them as citizens of Serbia. In the end, you will also improve the international position of your own government, because you will remove from the back of the state of Serbia and its citizens this dangerous mortgage, which from day to day is being shoved on our noses and on behalf of the Croats and the Muslims and the Americans and the English and the Germans and the French and many others, that we Serbs are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and for all the crimes and all the horrors that took place in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. If nothing else, let these shaken words of this young man invite you to take an interest in both yourself and your government, and in particular to ask what happened to killed Serbs in Sarajevo, but also in many other BiH cities, which he held in his hands the regime of Ali Izetbegovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59897	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59898	All amendments concerning Article 15 have the right to submit. I will refer only to these amendments to the DSS parliamentary group. Article 15 regulates something that's proof, Article 15 in his first chapter, where his basic provisions are. By the logic of things, the first head should contain something that is principles and something that must be respected in all the individual provisions of this law. When in this article under the heading "Provence" puts everything and everything about evidence, and it comes from some premise that the investigation is in the hands of the prosecution, and there is no answer to the question of who is responsible for fair and fair trial, then you have this kind of mix where there is no telling what is proof, the burden of proof is being insinuated, the order of carrying out evidence is simply being made papasian, which is based on some existing solutions from the current code and something that has been mistranslated, and someone has concluded – we can put all of this into one member and we covered it all up as a principle. To keep from spreading, proof is the most important stage of the search. Who is responsible for fair and just trial? Judge. If you have appointed a public prosecutor as an officer of justice of the Republic of Serbia, then he with the same strength, with the same capacities, should provide both evidence that can serve as an indictment and evidence that needs to enable defence. There's no such thing in this bill. There's a provision in the prosecutor's office -- if, by any chance, a public prosecutor comes across a piece of paper, so he finds that he might be in the post of defense, he's obliged to say that something like that exists. While you're here talking about the order in which the evidence was carried out, then, by logic, things must first be done with evidence used by the D.A.'s office to charge someone and convict them, and then I guess the evidence of the defense is being carried out. Well, if he thinks the D.A. has any more evidence, then his evidence. If the defense thinks there's any further evidence to defend it, then that evidence goes. It's not until the court's evidence ends. Here in this logic – whether on a party's proposal, if under official duty, attention is unnecessarily distracted. Why unnecessarily? Because this can't be fixed, because this is a failed mix. That is the main problem of this Article 15 and this concept. No one can make this right. As much as there are arguments that it's good to do something on official duty, it's so much argument that it's bad. We had these investigations on official duty for the cause of the court, so the prosecutor allegedly provides something, and then we find ourselves in a case—the prosecutor accepted everything the prosecutor had provided him, he suggested. Then it's nice to read there in court, and then the judges, like ours, say, like they do there, in court trials, and it's done. There is also a situation, if the entire process of proof is left to the parties in proceedings, prosecutors and defenses, that they do not possess equal weapons. Here's a classic example. The DA can provide, and everyone has a duty to give him evidence, information and data. The defense goes across the street and tells the gentleman - excuse me, please, you have one of your internal cameras, let me look at your camera for an event that happened across the street from you. What regulation can command this year’s N.E. A citizen to deliver evidence to a defense attorney? Is there? It doesn't exist. You see how the Americans mastered it, they gave 100m euros to transform the judiciary. You know what it's like: "pay and kill." Whoever pays, he's the boss. You can shoot yourself to the will, the Americans say they gave you money. Why are you ashamed of the dollar? Look, this can't be fixed, this just needs to come back and definitely say what we want to say and give the project task how to make the law. They don't have the guts to do that. The American supervisor said, "good." You can see the poor girl spoke English, like Vuk Draskovic, just to justify 100 million. We're just wasting our time here talking about this bill. None of this is gonna happen. Pure volunteerism will be. Look, you may not believe me, but here's what Mr. Konuzin says: "Is there a Serb in this audience, do you care about the fate of your countrymen? "That's what Konuzin asks in downtown Belgrade. Do they see people, aman, fifth column of flowers. What else did Konuzin tell you: "NATO and EU members will be against your national interests, but I have the impression that you don't care." Yes, Mr. Konuzin, they don't care. (President: Mr Krasic, Mr Konuzin is not familiar with the amendment to Article 15. Please return to the topic. Mr. Novakovic, I really treated you to be much more intelligent. Mr. Konuzin lives here, sees and he grabs his head – is there this kind of masochism? There is no masochism in the people, there is a fifth column leading the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59899	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59900	Mr. Novakovic, on the basis of Articles 27 and 32, since I and General Bozidar Delic's obligation to assist you in the duties of the chairman, I think you have injured the Rules of Procedure a little earlier, at the end of this brilliant presentation, interrupted counterpart Krasic, and the deputy head of our parliamentary group spoke about it. I am really surprised, Mr. Novakovic, because it is said here that you are taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the uninterrupted work of the Assembly, as you think we can work uninterrupted after such a statement by a Russian official in the middle of Belgrade and the situation in which it will be held tomorrow. administrative crossings of the Serbian people. If you think you're having this dinner time of eight or nine hours, we don't even know how long we're gonna be working, if you're not upset about the fact that the representative and the ambassador who is the friend of all of us, our people, as well as his country, with this kind of concern, and how the Tanjug agency passed on, he left the so-called. A security meeting in Belgrade, which Boris Tadic opened this morning, then I really don't know what to tell you anymore, nor how to help you in the way you chair. It is not just for you to read this synopsis – the member has submitted that, to turn the sheets, but to think a little bit, because you are now in office of the chairman, you are at the head of the highest legislative body. If this were the situation in the Russian Federation, the assembly meeting would be interrupted at the same time, not sitting there as the president of the Russian State Dume but any of his deputies, the heads of parliament would be called together and it would be seen that the Assembly would take its stand on what will happen to our poor people at KIM tomorrow. But you don't care. Well said Konuzin - you don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59901	If you already have the intention or desire to help me run the congregation, then you can do so with strict adherence to the Rules of Procedure. So I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure by warning the speaker to talk about the agenda and the item on the agenda. Everything else, for now, in this congregation, is hardly possible, we have received knowledge, and I have no other comments, nor is this position at all possible for me to comment on. If you're not satisfied...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59902	It's not worth it, Mr. Novakovic, you've all said that you're not concerned about the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59903	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59904	Let's get back to Article 15. Like one of my predecessors said, there's no repairs. If we were to try to amend Article 15 in that sense that the burden of proof is in court, first of all, that the court is carrying out evidence, then it would be clashing with the applicant's intensities to change the criminal procedural right of us in one fundamental sense. It is understandable to me, as the predecessors have said, which is why you will not accept this amendment, but it is our duty to say that we are deeply convinced that you are wrong, that your concepts are wrong, that what you wrote is wrong. You have defined yourself as a kind of mixed system between what was Central European or until recently ours, it looked like that Central European system and what was the American system. Between American and European, i.e. Home system, you've made a very unsuccessful hybrid. It will prove in practice, in the years to come, if this regulation remains this way, that there is a serious need for it to change. I would understand that you have defined yourselves as a pure American model. In the American model, you have a citizen trial, and that's a jury. The role of a jury in our law is reduced to a minimum. You've got an individual judge who's got a lot more power than he's ever had before. The judge himself sees the battle between prosecutors and defenses and as a judge at a football game has a whistle either for one side or for the other. Believe me, when teams are even and by the same rules of the game participate in the game, it makes sense. If the teams are not equal, if it is possible for the prosecutor to do anything, because the entire apparatus is behind it, and the defense is not possible to do much or only pro-form, and there is essentially none of it, the whistle of that judge, without the presence of the jury as in the American system, is absolutely at the expense of the defenders and the damage to the material truth, because it is about who better and in a simpler way to present the evidence he has gathered to the court according to the power he owns. The D.A. owns a lot more power. Why a hybrid like this? To conclude, we've been thinking about what might be the reason why you did this, except for some of the reasons that your colleagues in the SRS have made, but I wouldn't comment further, although I think those reasons stand. The reason is, practically, political domination. Criminal rules in the state, starting with constitutional norms related to criminal laws, to the very rules of law, are in the function of human rights. If they're in the function of protecting human rights, then there's no problem. If there's an attack on human rights or damage to human rights, then it's a serious matter. So this inequality in the process that we've shown you, which we've tried to correct with the amendment, which is unacceptable for you, because it's destroying your concept, because the bottom line is that there's a political background for this game. I'll give you an example. An MP in parliament, named Dragoljub Micunovic, relatively nearly gave an interview in which he said, on a particular issue of journalists, that as far as Knezevic from Zrenjanin is concerned, it is a man who has been loaded. So what we're saying about the assembly pay phone is in the paper. The man spent almost a year in custody. If the case were to be analysed from the point of view of criminal practice, that person had spent at least six months without any reason in custody. According to the current system, which contains how much – so much equality of participants in the process, imagine what it is possible to perform according to the system that you are proposing. He is in his essence designed for political culture. When political inexperiences appear, they will be "loaded". That's what you think you're doing, maybe not you personally, but who's behind this. Trust me, that thing will fall by itself. She's long-term unsustainable. You have not defined yourself for a system that is coherent, but you have defined a mixture, which has a certain political background and certain intentions. That's more than clear when this bill is read.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59905	Mr. Chiquiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59906	Without intent, to support the ministry, I really enjoyed what was said from the aspect of the profession and especially what Mr Aligrudic said now. But I'll also say my way of thinking, and I wouldn't allow a very precise and clear legal norm to be interpreted too widely and that at the end of its interpretation it gets another form and to create an atmosphere that we want one to adopt a curved code in which the court is totally uninterested sleeping. He's only interested in the formal truth of judicial truth based on the evidence collected, not the material truth. Now say a few arguments, which contribute to the determination of material truth. Of course, the concept in which the court collected, according to official duty and evidence to support the indictment and to support the defence. A concept in which the court played a completely different role. Of course, now the burden of proof is dominant on the parties because both the court and the parties, and especially the parties and particularly the accused are interested in establishing material truth. However, this right to carry out evidence under official duty is not constrained at all if it is part of the evidence of the prosecution and the defence, it indicates that the factual situation is uncontested, there is no need to carry out further evidence under official duty but the possibility is left here in paragraph 4 that if the evidence is contradictory or unclear, and this was necessary in order to give the case of evidence a comprehensive discussion, then the court may determine that these evidence is being carried out precisely in order to determine the material truth as the court may also, in paragraph 4. So, both the prosecutor and the defendant and his defender, to submit further evidence. Malten to provide them with legal assistance, to signal that this evidence is necessary to establish material truth. So you wouldn't succumb to this kind of atmosphere because here it's said that everything is allowed by the prosecutor, and the defense isn't. Article 19 says "all state authorities are obliged to provide the public prosecutor, court or other body with the procedure that has been brought before the defendant and his defender on their request with the necessary assistance in order to collect evidence," means not only to the prosecutor's office. Of course, that fear of all kinds of abuses is present because we have not yet built the necessary legal certainty, yet the courts are not after decades of experience in which, above all, in one party system, they have not judged, of course by the principle of material truth, according to the principle of the party, communists. This is the period of most serious human rights violations that many now really want to rehabilitate and create the atmosphere that in Tito's time everything worked, including among other things, independent justice, which is not true at all. The relics of the way of thinking from that system, of course they are present, are both inert and it comes from all sides, precisely because of fear of abuse. Of course, the police investigation also hides its dangers in human rights violations, but let's say during the "Sabbe action" someone mentioned serious violations of human rights were certain. Many indictments have not been proven and the state has paid huge damages to the face of unfounded freedom. However, if police evidence under the law at the time had had the evidence power in criminal proceedings, many, who were arrested during the Sabela action, would have been convicted. This is precisely due to the lack of validity of evidence collected by the police to be used in criminal proceedings. Remember, whether we want to admit it or not, "Sabbe action" has shown that organised crime with crime can be calculated in a very short period and I would not now, here is Mrs. Comic, the chairman, I would not, in this debate, be bound by what we are talking about either Ambassador Konuzin, or the Russian Federation, or their role in protecting Serbian national interests. Have they ever been able to help us? Would they help us again in some situation, etc. Because we have that kind of experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59907	Five minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59908	Mrs. Malovic, this is really a fundamental remark that the DSS has made and it is no wonder that the opposition colleagues from the government have been involved in talking about this amendment, this is exactly the conceptual difference we spoke of in principle. A colleague Aligrudic made it clear that we do not expect you to accept this amendment but we simply have to indicate that this will create many problems in the future, that this will be inadmissible in practice, that the fact that the truth is devalued in the court procedure. That the role of the court is reduced, that the parties are not equal, that in the European, continental, the legal system the court is the master of the proof procedure. You are abandoning the principle of European law with what you are doing. And indeed, you're making some mix, you've taken a little something from America and you're holding something back from our practice so far. Not to mention, in your view, you are calling for an explanation to point 4 where the court is stated to be able to propose, perform certain evidence, or if some facts are incorrectly established. The court has no need to deal with it, his job towards such a CAP isn't to determine the truth, his role, the people you've elected in this re-election, now he'll be as members of the jury and they'll score what the prosecutor said, and what the defendant said. I can't compare the defendant with my options against the prosecutor with the logistics of an entire state apparatus that has behind it. It's absolutely not an equal relationship between them. I repeat the question, please explain to me what the role of the complaint is because of the wrong and incomplete fact. It is the parties that have to prove and propose certain facts. In order for the complaint to be refuted by the very facts they have proposed if they are wrongly and incorrectly identified. How it's going to come to a high-quality verdict. It's not just the speed of the most important element of a criminal process. Far from that, I think it's the equality of the parties and the fairness of the procedure and the quality of the decision. One of my colleagues mentioned that in America citizens are being tried. I am sure that in Serbia, citizens expect the verdict of the criminal court to be based on the truth, not on the Court's assessment of party evidence by the prosecutor and by the defendant, on the other hand, and we simply have to make this remark known that you will not adopt this amendment, but I think at some point we will seriously deal with this problem and we will have to sort it out because in practice it will cause a series of adverse consequences both for the parties themselves and for the functioning of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59909	Two minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Before I ask if anyone else wants a word or if we can move on to the amendment. On the basis of Article 90, it informs the MPs that today we will end between 19.00 and 19.30, depending on the pace of the debate, of course no one will be interrupted or will be interrupted any cycle of replicas, but from 19.30 we will not work, and then we will continue to search tomorrow in particular on the remaining amendments after the completion of today's work. Anyone else want a word? National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59911	The question should be asked, when it comes to reforming legislation in Serbia, whether Serbia has decided that its existing criminal legislation violates constitutional regulation. This is a direct blow to the Constitution and constitutional arrangement, Madam Minister, you want to turn Serbia into a despotia as it was in the Turkish era. All three authorities, both legislative and executive and judicial, were concentrated in the hands of the Sultan. And with us, the legislative, executive and judicial authority is united in the hands of the government, i.e. the executive body. As for the amendment to Article 15 of the DSS colleagues, Mr Krasic's MP also spoke, Serbia is taking over the Anglo-American legislation, which is not common and is not traditional for Serbia. America has a little over 200 years of its existence and statehood, and in my village House, the coat of arms has a cabin, a church older than the American state. Since the seventh century, Madam Minister, legislative and judicial power has begun, especially since the 12th, 14th and 15th centuries in Serbia, so we are not beginners regarding the application of legislation and our judiciary. Is it possible to provide in Article 15 that a court may order a party to submit additional evidence, here is the case, accused in custody, and the court says, take a statement from the witnesses. The defendant in custody writes a letter to the witness to propose it for the purpose of evidence, he is not coming, and whether he should have the authority to take the oath before the defendant, the witness, and he says, "I won't." So what do we do? You see, this is a disaster, this is a waste of time, this is a good start for making a good Code of Criminal Procedure. You break the basic principle in the CAP, the truth, the court is obliged, not only that the court can propose to the parties that they attach new evidence. The court's due, until you say in law, he can and can't, and you can't do anything to him. What if it is necessary for the court to obtain evidence from certain state authorities, to request reports or data, and that will not be given to the accused by the state authorities. That's the only thing that can be given to a court of law. Napoleon was the first to say, the judge is God, the other God is gone. With us, the judges now need to be released, so now we'll have the next situation, we'll have the extra judge, because they can't wait to be released from the responsibility of determining the truth. We'll have a shortage of prosecutors. What do we do now? Where there's the balance of the charge and where the defense is, where there's the defender, where it's the right of a man to defend himself. You have bypassed the basic principle, establishing the truth, and therefore this law is not good for you, it is not good for you, it should be accepted first of all, and I have told you that this is just a bill of amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I said they were prescribed. What was that commission doing? If the provisions of the 2001 CAP have been prescribed, if you have accepted the 2006 CAP system and taken over a number of norms from that law, then what is new? It's just a new investigation into America, an American investigation. Yes, but America is 200 years old as it applies the adversative system. There's a jury there, and there's only a jury who declares who's the winner, and you here in our country need to transplant something. It's like growing oranges in Siberia. You're making a huge mistake. It was, as we were doing to hire the Institute of Comparative Law, to do to you the Institute of Studies from which you will see, here's a code that included a number of democratic principles and the European community gave a positive assessment of the law we were doing in the federal government in 2000. You can see, here are these studies, covered by America, France, England, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy and Wales. You should not have bypassed the Institute, and so now Jovan Ciric from the Institute, he warns and criticises the re-election of judges and legislative reform and is the number of those academics, professors, etc. Please, this study could have served you to see without sufficient court practice, in England they say, and in Germany, without court practice, without hiring experts and teams, without institutes and long application, there is no law. That's why I think you've made a big mistake. You're saying that she's been doing this commission for three years, and how much has she cost? Will you go public if she took it, did the OSCE give the money or not? If it's not, it's not, okay, they've worked for nothing, but three years to overwrite 30 or 40 members, it doesn't make sense, and it's taken over from other laws. I think it's a good idea for this proposal to change and change and supplement, because it's very effective. Don't give up on the truth. That principle is, above all, constitutional. That's what the Constitution says. Why is it a man or a group who has done this Code of Criminal Procedure, who, in my opinion, has a modest expertise. There's no court practice, if he had 20 or 30 years of court practice, if he'd sat in court and tried, shared justice, and in order for me to believe him, but whoever was a professor in college, you would hire him and say, now he's gonna write us a good law. There's no way out of it, there's nothing going on with that job, and this is a waste of time. I know you won't accept amendments to the SRS, you hate us, and it's undeniable and absolutely I won't suffer for it, but I have the authority to distract you and to tell you, please call your senses and accept, accept to improve the text of the law, or withdraw this text of the law and engage the institutes, experts, and let the new law be prepared and you will be satisfied and satisfied with the professional public. The professional public isn't happy with this, even though you say you're proud, and I'd be ashamed of this, and I wouldn't be proud. You're right, it's your business, but please respect the MPs, respect the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59912	Six minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59913	This is the second amendment to article 15 that has proof in the title. Mr. Jojic asked in the amendment to supplement this member with two new attitudes and gave something that has touch points of proof. However, if I hadn't wasted my time reading what was proposed by the amendment. What's characteristic of this mutilation, setting the principle of proof or the principle of proof, I just have to draw your attention to that, the prosecution investigation is in many countries. Let me remind you, in front of the SE a few years ago, there was a big problem, whether there are persons who are deprived of freedom and who are being held in custody in some countries, who are signatories of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms and that simply those persons are not in the records. You know who the Council of Europe ordered to be an investigator? Dick Marty. He investigated whether there was torture, whether there was torture during his investigation, with obstruction by the governments of the states that are members of the Council of Europe, there was evidence that illegal detention exists in Poland and exists in BiH. When representatives of BiH had to answer the question as to how it was possible, they said – so Americans, what to do. They took the prison, dressed up allegedly some members of Al-Qaeda, kept them there. So there's no record of the procedure being conducted. That's possible if a good part of the criminal trial is in the hands of the prosecutor. Then that's not part of Article 19. The bill states that all state authorities and all others are obliged to provide legal assistance, among other things, and defence. If that were the case, then Rodoljub Sabic would not need Serbia. Rodoljub Sabic, for information of public importance only, must shed crocodile tears, remind the state authorities, fight the media, because someone from the Ministry or some state secretary tells him – I don't care who you are, I won't give it to you. So, what it says in article 19 is a simple parole in practice. If someone thinks they can defend some basic principles, they're wrong. He's very wrong. Here are some examples. Here's an example from The Hague. According to the tribunal's logic, everything the prosecutor has must have the judges and have the defense. That's how it's written. It's the highlight of international justice. And what's in practice? In practice, it doesn't happen. In practice, the prosecution reveals some material that it provided seven years ago and failed to deliver defences, and when the defense provides it in some other way, it announced that it exists, and then the prosecutor, as it recalls, reveals the material. Why didn't he deliver it? Because by its nature it's liberating material. What's the D.A.'s office doing? That's the kind of prosecution you want to do in this business. Under some rule in 68 and 66, they deliver liberating material on thousands of sides, six and a half cubics, and there is a guidebook for irons, love letters of soldiers, etc. etc. Burglary. And it is a supreme criminal act, which one would say, so here you will prove your innocence. That's what you do here. You're tribunalizing our criminal procedure. That's why they took you both to The Hague and to the U.S. and here and there. Nice stories to judges, nice stories to people from the ministry, European Court of Human Rights fluids, some experiences, etc. There's a little problem, there's lost the truth about a criminal event, there's lost an individual. This is where you pray to God not to be charged. If you're charged, you're done. We don't need that kind of criminal action. Serbia does not want such a criminal procedure. If you want to remove any failures from Sabrela's time by this code, you failed, I draw your attention immediately. You didn't paint for nothing. The reform began before Mrs Malovic became elected minister of justice. It has been funded since the strategy when Zoran Stojkovic was minister, remember. It's the strategy from that period. Compared to what was written, and then it was bad, a few key things were changed to be even worse, so when we criticise, we criticise at all this pro-European and found view and in that context all of you put up with who you are and who you are not. Please, someone's making some insufferable illusions, inappropriate right now. It refers to some trials from 40, 50, 20 or 10 years ago, etc. They're said to have been party, communist, etc. There are probably such elements, but who's to blame, what are you doing in coalition with Hansel Dacic? Well, you also have Gorica Gajević. That's your coalition partner. Sit well at the coalition level, and make a deal, not here to fight each other. I come to the situation that I should defend you, remind you that you are a coalition, as I warned Lassla earlier – Lasslo, you forgot, you are in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59914	People's MP, you've forgotten the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, on the subject of the agenda. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word wants Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59915	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to all discussions on Article 15, and I would say that the discussions were more focused on whether the MPs advocated a concept that is a brand-new concept of criminal procedure or not. I want to remind you of something that I also pointed out in the debate in principle, that we did not go lightly to change our criminal procedural legislation, that this was still arranged when a new law was passed in 2005 in the Assembly, which was largely envisaged by the Ministry of Justice, and I would agree with the MP Jojic, the institute that provides for this bill, but, according to our assessment, they were not sufficiently consistent and not only according to the assessment of the Ministry of Justice but also according to the assessment of the people applying this law in both the police and the prosecution, that he simply could not contribute to a more effective court procedure and the question is whether he could be applied at all without doing any greater damage. In 2007, a meeting was held at the Faculty of Law, attended by all professors of the Faculty of Law in Serbia who dealt with criminal-processing legislation and who had the opportunity to speak their mind on whether Serbia needed a new concept or should be kept existing were representatives of both the attorneys and the public prosecutor's office and the court, and almost all agreed that we needed to go to new contemporary trends in the development of criminal-processing legislation. Of course, the decision was made by the Ministry of Justice, in which the provisions envisioning this new concept will be designed. That's what I trusted the task force. Almost entirely I accepted everything the task force had suggested. I attended as much as my obligations allowed, but almost all the meetings I attended, and I would disagree with the fact that these provisions were designed by the laymen. On the contrary, they were designed by people who practice criminal-processing legislation on a daily basis in both the police and the prosecution and the court. Their names aren't secret. I talked about some during the debate in principle. There's all this on the Web site as well as the Ministry of Justice and other bodies. I wouldn't express myself in any way about them. It's simple, their work speaks of them. I'd also like to point out the fact that we've had an Inquisitor system so far with an investigation system that's been at court level. This is a bill which is adversarial and which may be in its pure form, unlike the law that we have put out of force and, as I said, the provisions of this bill have been written by people who apply it daily in practice and I am sure that they have come up with it in a good way, and when this law is applied, then you too will be able to see for it. Now let me go back to what is the subject of both amendments to Article 15 concerning the burden of proof. I want to point out because of the citizens of Serbia that the current law, which applies, does not provide for an obligation for the court to carry out evidence under official duty. In order to confirm this, I will read to you the provision of Article 17 of the current Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides in paragraph 1: "The court and the state authorities involved in the criminal proceedings are obliged to establish truthfully and fully the facts that are relevant for the decision-making of law". It's in those general provisions. As regards those individual provisions, in part of Chapter 7, relating to the evidence procedure, in Article 326, paragraph 5, says this: "More can decide to produce evidence that has not been proposed or which the proposer has given up". So, according to the current current concept, we have no obligation for the court to establish evidence on official duty. Of course we couldn't accept this amendment, because it would completely violate the essence and concept of the new procedure. I wouldn't have so much doubt about the work of the state authorities that's been issued here both in relation to the police and the prosecution, and in relation to the court, especially in relation to the prosecution. This, in principle, was explained in the debate, that a brand-new concept should be taken into account which we have foreseen by reforming the judiciary and in relation to the procedure, in this case criminal procedure, but also in relation to the organisation of the work. I'll remind you that the judicial laws, the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, have now introduced the principle of disciplinary responsibility. So, one who doesn't do well can be sanctioned for his unhappiness. I don't just mean the discharge procedure. I also mean less disciplinary sanctions that can be imposed by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. In this proposal, the law stipulates that the prosecutor is obliged to obtain evidence and which is on the burden of the defendant, but which are also in favour of the defendant. I would not say that the prosecution is not interested in establishing evidence that is in favor of the defendant, for the simple reason it is not logical that he wants to come out with some negative decision at the end of the criminal trial. At the very least, it's recorded in his work scores. If the other party, the defendant or his defender, considers that the prosecutor unfairly rejected certain evidence, this draft law provides for the procedure under which he has the right to act in order to exercise his right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59916	National MP Petar Jojic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59917	Mrs. Malovic, I heard you very carefully. You shall compare the provisions of Article 15(4) to the provisions of Article 17 of the applicable law, but you shall bypass the truth here. See what it says in Article 17 of the current law: "The court and the state authorities who participate in the criminal proceedings are obliged to truthfully... "that's where we disagree. All that stuff over there is okay for you, Mrs. Malovic, and it doesn't have to. Well, what do you think if, say, the judge told the defendant -- you go to the police to collect information and, through the police, collect whether you and your witnesses were on the scene or events, is there any witness to confirm the facts of the indictment? Do you know how interested and motivated the police are? You don't know anything about her motivated to heaven to help the defendant against whom she filed a criminal report. That's what the police will never do. Secondly, why didn't you punish in many of the prosecution's provisions, and you predict that the parties should be punished, but you don't say the prosecutor? But he can be a witness, he can be a defense attorney removed, but he doesn't. sanction the judge, sanction the prosecutor. If you want efficiency in the process, when you provide for sanctions that he did not want to schedule a hearing for, say, six months or, say, two years, he has not written a verdict, the Law on Judges of the Republic of Serbia will apply to disciplinary measures. So it's not the same. He can, or he owes. That's a big difference. That's why you and I can't agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59918	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of section 1 above Article 21 and the title above Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59919	We have submitted an amendment just to show the true essence of this article. We do not dispute that this name – the composition of the court, the composition of the judicial councils. We ask that it be - a numerous composition of the court, a numerous composition of the judicial councils. It comes down to the same thing. We just wanted to distract ourselves. Although this whole chapter 2, which speaks of jurisdiction, although the issue of jurisdiction is a big question, not to go into it, this head has: one, the composition of the court, two, the local jurisdiction, under three, the merger and separation of criminal proceedings. I think under three you should have put the transfer of local jurisdiction, and that's under number four. Then what you have is under five -- an assessment and conflict of jurisdiction to be four, and only at the end of the merger of proceedings. But I don't want to get into those details. It doesn't change the essence much. We just wanted to draw attention that the composition of the court should be replaced by this – the numerous composition of the court, to know how many judges, much larger, little larger judge, individual, judge jurors, etc. But it's no big deal, and if you accept and refuse the amendment, that's what I have to tell you. But I have to make a connection to this. You see, in Article 16. The bill when you spoke about the assessment of evidence, whether that is the case, the assessment of evidence and the determination of facts, you accepted the football jargon, says – judges are estimating it according to their free conviction. Because of its free jurisprudence, FIFA introduced five judges and the sixth one next to the cornerer, that is, by the car, because free jurisprudence in football is wrong. You here with that football termology, why didn't you take a new terminology, beyond reasonable doubt? Why didn't you give some flexibility for relevance and proof value? No, because the Resavia school isn't good in these areas. Have you tendered this law-writing business? You had to tender, since it's a favor. And the Ministry is subject to the Public Procurement Act. When you order a rule-writing service, you have to call a tender and have tender documentation delivered, to participate and who wins to get a job to work. I would report to that law-writing tender, although the question is whether or not the Assembly needs someone else to write the laws at all, because it is the obligation of the Assembly. Without a tender you say three years you've been working etc. You have reached this epic text, where there are more provisions on some allegedly EU standards, and you have few standards under UN auspices. There's a standard there, there's a guideline. Under the auspices of the UN, a definition of co-execution is given. They're not immune to criminal-procession, they've made a huge contribution. These are standards that apply throughout the civilized world, and you have narrowed us down to something that applies only to the EU and the question is what is being applied to the EU. They keep some countries jealous of their criminal acts, especially the Italians and Germans. They don't allow innovations. Have you seen how many judges there are in The Hague? The Germans do not accept a joint criminal enterprise, and some judges have issued an opinion when it comes to evidence and when it comes to evidence. But that's not what you're interested in, you have a warrant to complete. You took the money, you have to justify that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59920	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the title above Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59921	Madam Minister, pay attention to the previous amendment, submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. It went over him. It's only for the reason it's a constitutional provision. The title of article 35 reads: "Right for rehabilitation and compensation for damages". Please consider whether this amendment should be accepted or not, whether it is meaningful or pointless. But the legislator must respect, above all, constitutional provisions and adapt the law to the provisions of the Constitution. Because, Article 35. The Constitution, paragraph 1, stipulates who is without grounds or unlawfully deprived of liberty, detained or convicted of a criminal offence. And it is said to have the right to rehab, damages from the Republic of Serbia and other rights laid down by law. I think this is current and now in our country, where it's being driven by controversy. If the author predicted a norm, don't go around it. You need to comply with the standard you're proposing right now with the Constitution. As for the amendment submitted to Article 21, the numerous composition of the court, which Mr Krasic spoke of, does not matter whether you adopt it or not, but we believe it is more correct that it is changed and that it reads as follows: "The number of compositions greater", better than "judgments", as provided. Judges are one general term. It could be five, it could be two, three. But when it's said, "The numbering composition of the council," then it's automatically thought whether an individual will be tried, because, if he judges an individual, for which crimes, what is his jurisdiction to impose a sentence, if he judges a greater one, whether the greater one will judge in a triple composition or consist of five judges. So I think this is more right and better, and it's up to you whether you accept it or not. This is our opinion, because we believe that the text of the law should be improved and that it should be accepted and understood in the professional public.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59922	It's been used 35 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Maric submitted to the title above Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59923	Ladies and gentlemen, the title above article 23 reads: "A crime scene." We have submitted an amendment suggesting that this title should read: "The jurisdiction of the crime scene". The government, of course, rejected this amendment, on the grounds that the Government does not accept the proposed amendment since other criteria do not use the word "competence". This explanation doesn't mean anything in itself. It's not about whether or not the word "competence" is used or not, it's about whether it's used where it's supposed to be used or not. Furthermore, the government says, "According to jurisdiction, it means the authority of the authorities to act, while the place of execution of terminology stemming from material and criminal law is more similar to the legal situation that is regulated by the norm." According to this free interpretation, the Government accepts this argument in practice that the solution we propose to the amendment is more similar to what the Government says is the legal situation that is regulated by the norm and more linguistically correct than the solution itself. For the purpose of accepting the amendments, the content of Article 23 to which this amendment applies shall also be spoken. Paragraph 1 states: "The Court of Justice, according to the rule of law, has been committed or tried." What's this about? So it's not about the execution site, it's about local jurisdiction. Item 3: "If a criminal offence has been committed or tried in areas of various courts, or at the border of those areas, or it is uncertain in which the area has been committed or tried, the court in whose territory the criminal proceedings are first initiated." And in this attitude, everything revolves around local jurisdiction. From everything I've read, it just turns out that the essence of Article 23 isn't a crime scene, it's a jurisdiction around a crime scene. And since the title above the text should always maintain the essence of the text, the title that I have suggested in any case corresponds more to the content of Article 23. So I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59924	People's MP Mirko Chikiriz wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59925	In a material and legal sense, all of these facts – the crime scene, residence, place of birth, etc., the crime committed on board, the aircraft and that I do not list any further, also determine the jurisdiction of the court and I think the legal proposal has been well done. If you please, as for the 18th and esteemed colleague, Petar Jojic, he asked to add "and rehab". This member provides the widest basis for rehabilitation as well. Because if someone is released from the charge or is found to be a liberating verdict that he was unfounded in custody, i.e. in the compensation procedure he is recognised both material and immaterial, then it is a complete rehabilitation, both judicial and moral and rehabilitation in respect of compensation, material and immaterial damages, which is still, unfortunately, still not possible by the current Rehabilitation Act. It only enables judicial and moral rehabilitation of persons who, on various grounds, are declared enemies of the state, etc. Now, in a court case, they only get a court ruling that determines, or their successors, that they are not enemies of the state, etc. Only a new law that was almost in the process was possible, and we hope that in the future it will provide the possibility of this law, to provide full rehabilitation, both material and immaterial.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59926	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic submitted to the title above Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59927	I have submitted an amendment to amend Article 24 and read as follows: "The jurisdiction by residence or residence of the defendant". The residence or residence of the defendant as concepts are governed by administrative law, and as far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, I believe that the amendment is more precise. Of course, the objective of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. All these amendments that we're submitting, we have really more than good intentions to improve these bill proposals that you're delivering to us here. In time, however, we see that it is really more than a Sisif business. When we begin to follow the intensity of what you wanted to say to a member, we finally realize that we have come on a road leading to a country in the middle of nowhere. Because you really can't convince us of your visual techniques, your psychological workshops, your political tricks, that a hammer to the head doesn't hurt. We've been shot at tomahawks so that we know how much it can hurt, and those who gave you money to reform the judiciary, to change judges and reform these laws, they can't take away the impression that you're making a repressive state. So, no way. You can say whatever you want, but soon you'll be making the police a militia, or organization that will protect the regime that is currently in power, and that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59928	Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the title above article 32. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59929	I'll use my time as an authorised representative. Mrs. Malovic, we traditionally, historically had in our criminal legislation exactly this definition of title. We believe that the transfer of local jurisdiction, for the sake of prevention, should primarily be changed as you have suggested. I'll remind you of something. You've been shy, I don't know what reasons you've visited, maybe you didn't think it necessary, something that the Directorate for Cooperation prepared for Human Rights and Legal Affairs General has in mind, based on expert opinion, and related to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Jeremy McBright, president of the European Union's Scientific Committee on Fundamental Human Rights. Is that right? Maybe I'm wrong. Is that what you've been informed of? I've come to that opinion, and it's a hell of a lot of remarks and a proposal on that bill whether it turns out that these are the ones who recommended you write the law as they just pointed out to you. Here is what it says about this provision, that it is necessary in the first order, if we want to resolve the issue of transfer of jurisdiction, it is recommended that this commission be heard first by the person to whom the provision applies, in order to transfer jurisdiction. You see how many people with tradition make sure they don't in any way violate the rights of the defendant or the defendant. So he has to ask himself, not just the court to make a decision – we transfer jurisdiction. We will transfer jurisdiction from Zrenjanin to Pančevo, but it must be asked, as this observation and opinion is being made, the defendant must be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59930	Two minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article, the 39th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article of the 40th Amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59931	In Article 43. The draft law on criminal proceedings, in points 1) to (8) you regulate the rights and duties of a public prosecutor for crimes prosecuted by official duty. This amendment asked me to delete points 3 and 4), because in fact, this bill gives some information, gives some rights and responsibilities to a public prosecutor that he has never had before. Among other things, it's the introduction of a so-called prosecutor's investigation. My colleagues before me talked a lot about this issue and about the passivity of the court in this case, as well as all the other things they are actually saying in favour of the claim that the Serbian Radical Party is explicitly against the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation. So the question is, what is the ultimate objective of a criminal procedure? I hope you agree with me that this is a determination of material truth. Now, let's briefly say something about, in fact, analysing the role of the public prosecutor and his goal in this criminal procedure. What is the ultimate goal of every public prosecutor? First, that the indictment should take effect on a legal basis, that he may receive a conviction under the procedure, and that the verdict would ultimately be confirmed by the second-degree court. That's the goal of every public prosecutor. So, of these things, normally, depends on the public prosecutor's career, the list also depends on how the public prosecutor will perform his post, how he will be evaluated, etc. So how can you imagine that a public prosecutor could be zealously gathering and proposing evidence to support the suspect, or accused? So here you are, in the hands of a public prosecutor, simply putting gasoline in order for him to put out the fire, to put out the fire that caught the defendant. He doesn't care what happens to the defendant. He doesn't care if he collects evidence to support the defendant. Here you're actually talking about the principle of equal weapons. There is no way that the principle of equal weapons has been put in place here in the right sense, and that is why we really believe that the prosecution investigation cannot possibly be established in our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59932	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59933	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, Honored Madam Minister, in Article 51(2) of the amendment, suggested that the words: "the damaged have the right to object within eight days of the date of receipt of the notice and instruction from the position of the 1st member", as well as the words: "if the damaged person is not informed, he may object within three months of the date on which the public prosecutor rejected the application, suspended the investigation or gave up prosecution" that those words were deleted. Therefore, the sentence of which was deleted by this amendment was proposed in direct conflict with the explicit obligation of the public prosecutor under Article 1 of the same Article of the Law. On the one hand, it is explicitly required that the public prosecutor be informed within eight days of the damage to the investigation or the withdrawal from prosecution and, on the other hand, the possibility of the prosecutor ignoring his legal obligation and prescribing deadlines for the damaged party. The deadlines for the objection should not be prescribed, general limitation deadlines should apply, which the senior public prosecutor values in any particular case. For non-aware public prosecutors, acting contrary to the provisions of Article 51(1) of this proposal, strict legal, or disciplinary measures should be laid down. So, today we've talked a lot about the new or greater powers of prosecutors, pointing to the possible consequences of some of the oversights in this law, so we thought it would be good for you to respect this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59934	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic jointly submitted to the 68th amendment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59935	As much as I can agree in principle with part of your argument which is why you reject this amendment, which is what you said was our idea, to ensure the defendant's right, to give him enough time and opportunities to prepare for the defense, we said during the whole process, and you said that this is understood, it's for discussion. We wanted to be simply affirmative here, that in one principle provision to the defendant and the defender, because these are actually principled provisions, these are introductory provisions, which explain the concepts and structure, that this is also the term "the whole process", because it is very important that this right be provided indeed throughout the process. You know what all the organs of the proceedings are, it's not just a court, and how the proceedings are going. So, in that sense, we wanted to provide the one who defends himself, or the defendant. However, in the further part of the amendment, we said after the word "review", it means the files and the right to copy. The right to copy is directly defined by Article 250 of the Law, but if it is so stylish, we see no reason why the right to copy the file, which is detailedly regulated, who approves, in which way, etc., why this is not stated in this principle provision of Article 68. So, I'm not going to say that this is some big deal, but in any case, we thought it was more correct that certain rights are specified in the principle of regulation, especially what, when it comes to criminal proceedings, as we said before, it's about the content of human rights and it's very important that these things be underlined.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59936	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 69, the People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59937	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to article 69, which is in chapter 6, where the rights of the defendant and the defendant are defined. Now that you're talking about the rights of the defendant, in article 68, you define all his rights, a total of 12, and then in article 69, you're talking about the rights of the arrested. My proposal is to use, instead of "incarcerated" the term that you used in Article 2(2) point 23, where you said "deprive freedom". So, the persons who are deprived of freedom, and then you said what faces are deprived of freedom, those who are arrested, those who are detained, those who are forbidden to leave the apartment, those who are in custody, etc. If the logical interpretation of the provision laid down in Article 2 of the right provided for in the arrest is made, then all the rights which you have stated for persons deprived of liberty and those who are detained and those who are in custody and those who are prohibited from leaving the apartment. You, in your argument, said in the Government's opinion, in your opinion, that this amendment would not be accepted, etc. And you said it belonged only to the arrested, which is illogical. Look, how does this right belong to the defendant, the rights you've defined? It also belongs to all those Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia who are on the so-called Croatian war criminals' lists. Do Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia know what they are blamed for? They don't know. Why don't they know? Because you're making it impossible for them. You participated in 2008 until today in negotiations with Croatian judicial authorities and what have you done? You've increased the number, you've increased that list. From about 1.534 last year, this year it's 1.549. For about 60 faces, some are off, some are in. You know what the problem is? The issue is the case of Croatia for genocide and our counter suit for genocide. In contrast to the genocide suit, you say that the Croatian state committed genocide. Who did this specifically? You must clearly state on the basis of this right, based on international law, who committed genocide. That's what the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide obliges you to do. Do we have one person against whom a genocide procedure has been initiated? No, I don't. And why aren't you doing that? Why are you hypocritical? It's hypocrisy. If it's genocide, then you know what the elements are the forms of genocide. You raised your hand at the government when you adopted the ruling on the countersuit. In that countersuit, it was said that genocide was committed. Did you not think, as the Croats said, that genocide was committed by the Serbs? Isn't it according to what you just said, that you are doing nothing actively to determine who committed genocide against Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia and to carry out the procedure and determine who did it? Do we have one person we know committed genocide? You have hundreds of applications. For ethnic cleansing and genocide, however, there is no action. Your ministry, this government is doing nothing to determine the perpetrators of genocide. It's hypocritical, it's sad and it's tragic for the Serbian national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59938	Two minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic jointly submitted to Article 69 of the 1st Amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59939	Here's what this is about. When someone is arrested, he has the right to demand that his arrest, without delay, be notified to a member of his family or, as you say here, someone else close to him. When you refused this amendment, or didn't understand what we wrote, I think it was about misunderstanding, because I can't understand rejection any other way. We said that instead of "the other person close to him" it should be "the other person who determines." Who? Well, arrested. He determines who will be informed. It's a very wide circle of face. Which means "close face" to him. It's okay, family member, why did you define that, but what other close-faced person is that to him? Well, any face he determines. Do you know what surprises me? Then why didn't you put the other permanent community of life in the formulation here? Why isn't it a face that's dreamt of in another permanent community of life? What if there's only two faces in there, because the other permanent community of life only makes two people, by you, probably same sex, that was probably the point, what in that case we're going to do, if one of those faces goes to the market and it's not there? What about the third person who lives in the same community, cooks lunch, cooks and sleeps in that apartment? He can't be notified. Let's spread the circle of the face. What do you care who gets arrested for calling? Let him call whoever he wants, just let him say who he wants to call and they'll call him and let him know about his arrest. Be simple, don't complicate things and life for yourself and for others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59940	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 71st amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59941	This is very simple. I won't go too far with the explanation. Here we wanted to add the word "copy" and to add after the words "writers" to the words "and the records of the actions carried out". Why does this record thing matter? I have to tell you that suddenly the paper came to the court today, according to my colleagues, the lawyers who told me that, today the courts suddenly had the paper to give the records to my colleagues. Usually this paper is not there, usually it gets stingy and usually people can't get the records from the process. Let us legally regulate it in the same place, in the introductory provisions concerning the rules of procedure, that there are rights and on the record, that there is a right to copy. You're only missing article 250.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59942	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59943	If during the trial the defendant refuses further defence of the defendant appointed to him by official duty, then he has to be appointed a second defender. That's the point. Within a reasonable period of time, the defendant appointed under official duty shall have the right to refuse defence. Madam Minister, put yourself in the position of a lawyer who is on the list of lawyers who defends a person under official duty in criminal proceedings, be appointed also as a secure lawyer, a secure member of the Bar Association, appear and represent the interest of your defender who will not see you from the first second, nor hear you, nor speak to you in public, gesture, words, in any way refuse to defend him. Isn't it your right, no matter what order you were in or on the list, which the court called you to say, in that case - I'm sorry, I can't do my duty to do right, I'm not someone who's in a state of man or woman, anyway, who doesn't want to cooperate with me, I'm successfully defending. After all this, everything that happens in court will be attributed to me in failure, especially if we take into account your system that you wrote in this law, that the defense and the prosecution are two completely unfair sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59944	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Articles 157 and 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Justice and Administration Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59945	In this way, Article 73 speaks of who may be the defender in the proceedings. Of course, he can only be a lawyer. Paragraph 2 states: "In a criminal proceedings for which a sentence of up to 10 years is prescribed or more severe punishment, a lawyer can only be a lawyer (listen carefully) can only be a lawyer with at least five years of legal practice, i.e. a lawyer who has served for at least five years as a judge, a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. "Look what's wrong here. You assume that someone who has acquired all the conditions to deal with advocacy does not according to the qualification of knowledge to defend a certain category of people in front of a court. It's absolutely scandalous, it's total discrimination, you can't do it regardless of what might sound justified to someone. Apparently, someone has experience, so they'd better defend those who are guilty of more serious crimes. That's total nonsense because you in this article didn't say it was a face in criminal law law law. It just means this, someone who wasn't a lawyer, but for two, three years he was an intern with a guilty lawyer and made a perfect trade, but in the first or second year he could handle the case perfectly. Someone who's a 15-year-old lawyer, he's been doing litigation, you're letting him get the dead cold to defend someone who's been incarcerated for 20 years. That's definitely not right. In Section 3, we suggest you delete this famous "permanent community of life". What the hell are you guys talking about? You're saying that a defender can't be someone who's with someone in a permanent community of life, someone else, not any other permanent community of life. It's the only other face, probably the same sex, that cooks, eats, sleeps with him, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59946	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59947	I would like to say that I greatly agree with your discussion on the subject of defenders and the ability to be a defender, and that was not such a provision in the working version of the law, which is referred to the opinion of the Council of Europe, and that is why I want to tell you why it has been amended and why such a provision has been found in the bill, because the opinion of the Council of Europe has been like this, I will read to you about this article. "It does not seem likely that a legal intern could be considered competent to ensure effective defence within the meaning of Article 6. European Convention on Human Rights when there is a risk of prison sentences."
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59948	National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59949	I totally understood what you read, and I totally understood what you read, and I even agree with what you read, but we're not talking about interns here at all. We are talking here about lawyers who have taken an oath, who are members of the Chamber and the distant standing between the fact that someone is doing commercial law and a litigation procedure so that within three months, thanks to their colleagues, they can be found on the list of lawyers who defend themselves under official duty and who can win a case in which they will defend someone who is accused of a crime for whom a sentence of 15, 20 or 30 years in prison can be handed down. While on the other hand, someone who was an intern becomes a lawyer, for six months he's in criminal law, as an intern roasted the trade, he believes he's definitely capable of representing such cases after six months. That's so reasonable. If you have a problem with the amendment or you don't want to erase that "permanent community of life", which you probably won't, because you care about those two people who have some special relationships if they're the same sex. So, at least ask the committee of authorities to delete the editorial and adopt only this first part of the amendment regarding the attorney's attorneyship and the willingness to defend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59950	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59951	In the debate in principle, I said that I had a dilemma, as Mr Aligrudic has about this member and whether it was discrimination without prejudicing that it was also a bad intention. In fact, all of us who have great experience in various proceedings and in court proceedings can also present a series of counterarguments. I fully agree that someone who's enrolled in the Bar, passed a judicial exam, now according to the new law and legal exam, is young with proof, has not enough objects, can provide much more quality defense because much more time can be devoted to the case and the defense, and is eager to prove, is young and fresh. I'm not going to mention how many legal names there are, lawyers who are 20, 30 or 40 years lawyers, they're famous, and in cases they're very bad at representing the interests of their states because they're not interested in proof, they're not interested in getting a fortune or a large fee in the case because they've provided themselves and their offspring. We have a colleague who has 15, 20 hearings a day in his laundry and guilt, etc. Believe me, he's kidding himself at his own expense, he walks into the courtroom and says, if I represent the prosecutor, I'm staying in everything as a defendant in a lawsuit, and if I represent the defendant, I'm contesting the lawsuit and I'm asking him to refuse. So the fact that someone has five years of experience doesn't mean advantage, doesn't mean quality defense, I've convinced myself of hundreds of cases of mistreatment? Let's just say, one example, a lawyer who specializes in the defense of criminal cases has made an incredible failure in the main search. It was about coercion and larceny and subsequent rape. Then he made a mistake that the person over whom the first robbery was committed because whoever did the robbery had a knife he ran to a nearby store, asked for a phone to call the police, so apparently they didn't give her a phone, then asked for allegedly help, allegedly the people who were working there refused help and she got because they didn't have a phone and didn't want to give her help, returned to the street in the arms of the robber who then raped her. So, believe me, the practice has really shown and comes a new time when young people who are now enrolling in law chambers, full of evidence, have new knowledge, have a desire to win the lawyer's market, and I think that this provision just comes in favor of maybe some lobby that's long in some law offices, that eventually they'll have more later. I don't see any reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59952	Three minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. National MP Zoran Anitic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has identified a major oversight, I would say, I would not like to say that it is the wrong intention of the promoter when it comes to Article 3 who can be the defender. So it's clearly defined, more specifically, who can't be the defendant -- the accused, the damaged, the spouse, possibly when it comes to damaged or the prosecutor, and who lives with them in an out-of-marriage community, related to them, but completely missed the judge. We understand that the defendant should be protected in some way, but the damaged should also be protected. By acting with the prosecutor you must find yourself in this article of the law, I would say in this attitude, and in this sense we have acted and in this regard you yourself have repeatedly stressed that the judge is not entirely neutral, that he can take active participation in the process itself and it is quite illogical that you have missed out on the judge in this case and that it could practically mean that the defender and the acting judge can be in a marriage or out of wedlock, that they are related, and that there is no need to remind you of what kind of abuses are possible in this case, that as far as they were lawyers, that we are in the reform of the judiciary that is still in progress, as you say, we have a number of judges who have been marked unworthy, just because they have had marriage partners who were lawyers and that it was even in this regard to whether the judge has been able to have the other counsel in the matter. We find that failure necessary to correct. We do not understand why you did not find an understanding of this amendment, because it fully stands and is aimed at significantly improving and avoiding any misunderstandings and, I would say, even corruption in the judiciary in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59954	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59955	So, we have submitted an amendment to Article 74(2), which we asked after saying, "for which the sentence of prison is prescribed," said: "from eight years of age or more severe punishment" in words "over eight years". We have explained -- in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia for many crimes, time sentences are prescribed in a very wide range, from lowest to maximum. Let's say, three to eight or five to ten years in prison. This often leads to confusion in court practice, when defining jurisdiction for the trial of judges an individual or a court of law, etc. We therefore believe that when defining the legal conditions for granting defenders under official duty, it is necessary to define more precisely the condition concerning the threatened criminal offence and therefore we consider the solution proposed by this amendment quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59956	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 75th amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59957	Look, this article says that a defense attorney may or may not have authority over the defendant himself, but someone else can do the same for him. These are the faces listed who can do anything for the defendant. And it says here, we're going to read now, this is fun. So, he can do it himself, empower the defender in the process, can his legal counsel, and the legal representative is, not to enter the definitions now, you say, a marriage mate. Where did you find that appointment? Did they find themselves in 1973, 1974, 1968, in SFRY? What a marriage mate, it's about a spouse. Read, if you are already referring to Family Law, when you have given me explanations for Article 2, it is about a spouse, find that a spouse, what a mate, writes there. Where'd you find that? It's socialist terminology, communist terminology, marriage mate. He says now, a blood relative on the straight line, which means son, daughter, father, mother, etc., adoptor, everyone knows what it is, brother, sister, fosterer, say and listen to the person with whom the defendant lives in an extramarital or other permanent community of life. Now the point is, if we haven't been clear from the beginning what this second permanent community of life is, here's an explanation in Article 75. That's where it all clears up. When I asked you in Article 2 what termology means to you – the second permanent community of life, you then explained to me that it was a family law term, and I asked you, well, if the term of family law is what is a two-member? How come it's a two-member community and how do you tie it here to an out-of-marriage community? The extramarital community is a community that can in all respects a marriage, and it is a relationship between two different sexes. If this is about the second permanent community of life that's two members, you know what two members mean, there are two members, obviously the same sex, and countered, right? Be careful what you do, by criminal law, trying to install gay marriages into Serbia's legal system. What do you mean, you're making faces? Well, since it's not when it says, I've connected everything up nicely for you and in the entire afternoon debate, you have a stenogram, so look. Look what you're doing. Watch what kind of scandal you do, and you forget the basic thing, which is that the defendant has the right to hire a defender himself or to do it for him. If we agreed that someone could do it for him, Mrs. Malovic, let anyone do it, but anyone, don't limit it to a mate, outsider, fosterer, relatives on the right line, etc. things. Let's not do this, because it's total nonsense, what if all those faces are gone, what if someone's been arrested and charged, he's being prosecuted, and these faces are not here? If he has the right to turn his workmate on the phone and tell him, hire me a lawyer, I can't remember, you're on the loose, you'll find it easy. Don't do that. This goes against the interest of the defendants in the proceedings, I purposely call him counsel, even though you have no appointment. If you're already taking on Anglo-Saxon law, take on the Anglo-Saxon terminology, as they say, it's the defendant, but no, he's still guilty to you, which means guilt. You now, instead of having one normal norm that needs to be advanced for our society, allow someone who is in a position to defend themselves before a court or a criminal procedure, to be represented by anyone, or to be engaged by a lawyer instead, you limit that circle of faces and in that limited circle of faces you invent some other permanent community of life, which in our legal system doesn't exist. I really don't understand you, what do you want from all of us, what do you want from the citizens of this country? What a hybrid you're making here, what a joke you're making with the legal system. Come on, be brave, if you're so brave, you want to make a hybrid like this, a novelty like this, so do something that goes into favor and in the interest of human rights. Let the man, the woman, whoever is arrested or under criminal arrest, that anyone here hires a defender instead, so if he doesn't like that defender, he'll say that, he won't agree to that, and in that sense, he's our amendment. That's how we wrote it. I really don't understand what you're actually trying to do here?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59958	It was used three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59959	I am looking for a word and I will try to explain, in addition to this amendment, we have also managed ourselves with an opinion on the draft CAP of the Republic of Serbia, 26 May 2011, and all of the world's experts, Jeremy McBride, president of the Scientific Committee of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, lawyer, law firm, Monktom, Peter Pavlin, secretary of the Department of Criminal Law and Human Rights, Law Department in the judicial system, Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, Pytar-Hein Kreners, chief public prosecutor in retirement in the Court of Appeal, the reserve judge at a certain time in the Court of Appeal, the Netherlands, world-rent experts. If I hadn't read it, no one alive would have known about these secretaries from some ministries, about these pensioners looking to secure the abbey. They read this draft of yours and here on page 44, I don't know why Aligrudic pretends to be naive, so it's said he should apply to homosexual and heterosexual communities. They said to strangers, Aligrudic, what do you pretend you don't know, read what it says here, and they blindly have to do it. But what I'm sure they haven't told you, and you've installed, that's what's covered by this amendment. So, a defense attorney on official duty, if he doesn't pick him, will be appointed by a public prosecutor. When it was in the history of the judiciary that the attorney general appointed the defendant on official duty, this was to patent. Public prosecutor and defence are opposing parties in the process. How can a public prosecutor appoint a defense attorney? If you give the investigation to the D.A., and everything the defendant does in the investigation, all the costs are the costs of the investigation, they make up for it in the prosecutor's office, not in court. What's the matter? You survived something here. It's impossible. The president of the court says he's setting up a defense attorney on official duty. The entire defense institute is officially indistinguishable. Nor is this your solution that an attorney under official duty is determined according to the order of lawyers, it is misused, and therefore some lawyers are extremely wealthy because independently of the order only they get, when it comes to pre-criminal proceedings. This one, the famous bald Ciric of Nis, Bosko throws him these jobs. He's always hired as a defense attorney on official duty. It's possible that you know it's possible. If this were to be done by the Bar Association, if she were to appoint a defense attorney on official duty, it would be abuse again. An official defender should be determined, indeed, in very specific and exceptional cases. Why? First, the defendant was created. First the crimes were committed, then the lawyers. It's the original right of every man to defend himself. If he asks for help, and if he needs help, let him choose a lawyer, no one else can choose his defense attorney. I agree in those peripheral cases, when fair and fair trial can be questioned for lack of quality defense. It's exceptions, exceptions, exceptions. You made an exception, an exception, a rule. The D.A.'s office determines a defense attorney. It is mandatory to patent and tell me which experts from the university wrote the text of this bill to initiate the procedure before the teaching scientific council to take away all possible titles of academics that they have acquired in some university, because what they wrote, this is a crime, and you will raise your hand for this and for you to advertise your law offices as MPs of the position. Have you read this article? Epochal, European. Pete Rita came up with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59960	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59961	For objective information, I want to point out to you the fact that the opinion you've read is the first time I've heard it. It was not the subject of an examination of the task force which made up this bill or the Ministry of Justice. I'm not getting into it or who ordered it or who did it. I certainly want to point out the fact that it was not the subject of consideration during the drafting of this law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59962	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59963	Mr. Krasic, it's not right for me to speak directly, but it's stylish. Mr. Krasic, I really haven't read that opinion you've given me, and there's no reason to be crazy. If I'd read something and kept it a secret, I'd have been acting crazy, but whoever's acting crazy here is going to find out from the debate, even though this is happening in small hours for those who are watching a delayed transmission. So it's not the essence of whether it's written in the opinion or not. That there is some pressure, there is, but when you have a formulation – another permanent community of life and you limit it to two members and you always tie it to an out-of-marriage community that's obviously heterosexual, so the whole nature of things suggests that when we talk about another permanent community of life, it's homosexual, but all the time, since the very beginning of interpreting the provisions of the law I've been trying, Mr. Krasic, to make Minister Malovic admit it in some way, but she doesn't want it. Why is she ashamed of it, why is she defending herself from it, why is that strange to her? We have given it in the amendments that we have proposed to the fungi of formulations that will avoid tampering with this, such as the fact that we have proposed to the previous amendment that power be given by any law to hire a defendant on behalf of the defendant, anyone who fits the blame, but it obviously does not correspond to the Ministry and the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59964	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59965	It's about the defense attorney on official duty. In accordance with Article 76, you said this – The Bar of Lawyers is obliged to enter in the list set out in Article 1, which is a list of lawyers who will represent by official duty, indicate the date of registration of lawyers in the register of lawyers and specify the date of registration. It says – it is necessary to make sure that the practical and professional work of a lawyer in the area of criminal law gives grounds for assuming that the defence will be effective. You are now introducing an obligation to enter the date of enrolment to ensure that earlier norm we talked about when we said that you distinguish lawyers by training for a certain quality of defense and then you say they have to take care of practical and professional work in the area of criminal law. Why don't you just let it go? Isn't it enough that you've executed a chican over the Bar Association in the Law on Lawyerry, but that's what you're also doing in the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's just an amazing thing to do. So, one profession that is independent, one chamber that represents MPs of an independent profession, you chicanate with a legal standard and determine what and how they should do. That's already said enough in the parent law. Don't do anything is not necessary in the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59966	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59967	This article in 76 has really introduced a serious cold in Serbia's legal public and I think you should review it, repack it and, respecting everything that Mr. Zoran Krasic said in the context of his amendment, supports absolutely its amendment. We have an amendment in the same article relating to item 2 where we said that the point is eventually deleted, it adds stuck and said, "as if the list leaves out lawyers who explicitly declare that they do not want to act as defenders under official duty." The list of lawyers defined by official duty, which Mr Aligrudic spoke about a little while ago and also gave him an excessive qualification which is acceptable, and we said in our explanation this way – precisely in order to ensure the quality of the defendant's defence, in a situation where the defender is assigned to him under official duty, we believe that the law requires the possibility of lawyers who do not want to act as defenders on official duty at the time of their explicit request of the release from the list in question. It is known that in our practice many lawyers for various reasons do not practice dealing with guilt and are completely focused on litigation, economic disputes and the like. We therefore believe that to protect the integrity of the legal profession and to ensure quality defence, it is pragmatic to leave the possibility that those lawyers who explicitly stress the absences from the list in question. We must certainly respect both the practice and the experience that lawyers who do not want to be lawyers under official duty will certainly not work from many motives quality, especially quality by defenders and we believe that this amendment is fully acceptable and that this member of the law, which is otherwise problematic, from these three previous amendments you have seen, to be reviewed and to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59968	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that out of the five amendments adopted to the draft laws that have been submitted, three amendments have been adopted by New Serbia. Believe that there was still room to accept the amendment. In Article 78, paragraph 2, following the words "or each of them selects another defender" the sentence "if they do not do so in the event of compulsory defence, the defender will be appointed to them under official duty" shall be deleted. Reason – the unimpaired right of any accused person to defend himself in a manner that he considers best, as far as it may be the neutral observer from the aspect of legal and general logic did not act logically, and in the event of mandatory defence, it is not necessary to derivate this right of the accused or accused and should not be imposed by the defendant under official duty. We believe this provision should be deleted from the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59970	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59971	This amendment is related to Article 78. In Article 80(1), point (5) is deleted. How did we get a solution proposed in the amendment referred to in Article 78(2)? The bill of law advocated the incompetence of the right of each accused to defend himself as he believes it is in his best interest and to propose the erasure of the provision, which, in some ways, derogates this right, for the consistency of the text of the Code, we propose to delete the provision of Article 80(1) point 5 as one of the reasons for the resolution of the selected defender.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59972	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59973	Madam Minister, Mr Krasic, and I have previously indicated to you that there is one opinion of experts, I would now call, when it comes to the assessment and compliance with European regulations and laws, what EU representatives have given on this draft before, or the Law on Criminal Procedure proposed. In the opening part, what do they say? I would not repeat those experts spoken by Mr Krasic, he said – this opinion examines the compliance of the draft law, the 2011 Code of Criminal Procedure, whose adoption is currently under consideration and the preparation in the Republic of Serbia, with European standards, and in particular the European Convention on Human Rights and its protocols. The opinion was prepared by Pete Heim Kremens, Peter Palvin and Jermin Makebi, experts from the Council of Europe. Ministers, as requested by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia since 1 April 2011. Have you been Minister since 1 April 2011? You were. Where are they being called to the Department of Justice? I don't know if anyone could have past you, I don't want to say it, but I doubt if, without your knowledge and approval and your signature, someone could have filed a request to make his elaborate remarks. One more thing, I have reviewed the remarks and opinions of these experts on this bill, and I have seen that many of the provisions that they listed on the back pages, and there are hundreds of them, have just been thrown out of the draft, and theirs have been inserted into this proposal. Well, it points to the conclusion that the working group did have this working opinion and benefit. If you don't believe me, I'll copy your photocopy tomorrow, and you'll be the one to question it. On my part, I'm going to question whether this is true or not, whether the experts actually filed this as a forger, as something that wasn't required by the Ministry. It confuses the fact that everything that is just corrected from the draft to the proposal, many provisions are consistent with the observations and opinions given. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have proposed that Article 81(4) be read in accordance with the provisions of Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia permits the right to appeal, as prescribed by the Constitution in Article 36. Imagine, except for the defender, no appeal allowed, no solution retains execution. Imagine now, a public prosecutor or judge has his own attorney and it's in practice, you've dealt with such corrupt people. Then what? What happens if the judge has business co-operation, allegedly, with a lawyer? What are we going to do, then, and yet not allow him, say, a defense attorney who's appointed under official duty, solves him, but sets up a friend of his who's supposed to take a fee and not have the right to appeal? And Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia lays down in point 2. – each has the right to appeal or another remedy against the decision of the State authority which offends its rights or interests. What's around the Constitution? Stick to the Constitution. We are obliged to adhere to the Constitution. The appeal is a legal remedy against any decision, which offends the rights and interests of a particular person. I didn't make this up. This was invented by the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59974	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic jointly submitted the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59975	This is about the release of the testimony. Who has the right to be released from the duty of testimony? Such a norm has existed so far, for there is indeed a circle of faces for which it is practically not humane to expect them to testify against the accused, for example. a mother, a brother, a sister, a father, a child. That's crazy stuff. Of course, it is natural to find such a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, you here at point 1) of view say that besides the other persons who have been released from the duty of testimony among other persons living in marriage, in an extramarital or, you say, another permanent community of life. I'll remind you of a member of the 2nd draft law claiming to be a two-member community. Since she is listed as married and out of wedlock, does this mean that she is one who is neither married nor out of wedlock, and is two members, permanent and has the mark of family life? If I was wrong that the strict interpretation of this permanent community of life in terms of this law is actually gay marriage, if I was wrong, Mrs. Malovic, then maybe I'm right now when I say this, so if you deny me this explanation, then that means I was right. If it is a permanent community of life that can be characterized by family relationships, and it is two members, it means that it can be two persons who are one to another as brothers and sisters or two sisters or two brothers. That means, Mrs. Malovic, that there is no sexual relationship between them. If that's true, then that means that two people who live indefinitely in the same apartment as roommates, share the same kitchen, share a common living space, feed on the same table, who don't have to be in close relationships, meet your conditions that they are in a permanent community of life. If that's true, then the third person who lives with them as a roommate isn't. Then I guess they're pulling a straw to determine who it is that's out. The one who hasn't fallen off, do you think you have the right to be called within the meaning of Article 94 for the release of the office of testimony? Is that right or isn't it? Say, is that right or isn't it? If it isn't, then I'm right from the beginning that the permanent community of life is otherwise understood, as you say in Article 2, actually legalizing homosexual marriage, in terms of criminal law. There is no third interpretation, Mrs. Malovic. I've been waiting for you here on article 94. There is no third interpretation. Or in the sense of this law, it's actually a homosexual marriage, which you're legalizing in this way, you're introducing it to a small door. Or if that's not the case, then it opens up terrible opportunities and abuses when it comes to the release of the testimony, because, I repeat, in that case, a roommate can also relieve you of your duty to testify. A fifth-degree sideline relative who lives with someone in the house, just doesn't have another apartment, this one's accepted him, lives as one family, he gets rid of the duty of testimony, because he calls for this. If there are such two in that apartment or house, one of them is out, because you're here saying it's a two-member community. And why is that third one a waste? Why aren't there four, five, six? Why? Who are you making crazy here, and Krasic here asks me a question, like I'm acting crazy, so I don't know what it's about, and of course I know what it's about. The only one who's acting crazy here is the current authority who's given this bill and is pushing some kind of directive to break our backs. Isn't it the interest of this society to move forward? Is it not the interest of this society to preserve certain values that will give it progress? What we have to do is do everything that comes to someone else's mind and asks us to get us a green light, ask God for what. The only green light he's going to get here in these rooms for something and not for nothing, is Thaci in Kosovo. None of us are gonna get that. Neither you personally nor the government of Mr Cvetkovic nor Boris Tadic. Look what you did in article 94. Are our amendments clear to you now? Do you understand what we want now? They weren't even malicious, if you had accepted this idiotic formulation, you'd have thrown out "another permanent community of life" and accepted our suggestions on how to solve certain situations under the law, there would be no debate. We'll make fun of this, and the citizens of Serbia will make fun of it, because you deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59976	It's been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59977	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 96 speaks of the oath of witnesses. Otherwise, the Code of Criminal Procedure regulates nine members of the witness. The Witness Institute and the witness oath is not something introduced for the first time by this bill, nor was it introduced in Serbia for the first time. You remember that folk, two without a soul, one without a head. To avoid that, he had long begun to develop a witness swearing institute. In principle, every person, witness and person believed to be going to give notice of a criminal offence, a perpetrator or other facts which are determined in the procedure. Everyone is obliged to respond to the call to make a statement, or to testify. Of course, this bill provides for when a person can be freed and that is something that has existed before and there is no newspaper. With this amendment, we have proposed that in Article 96(3), the text of the oath is changed and said, and what is now in the bill – I swear by my honor that I will only speak the truth of everything I ask, and that I will not keep any of what is known to me. Our suggestion is that instead of "scaring" the words "I swear." The oath is made by an organ before which he swears. Who swears to the President of the Republic when he's in charge? In fact, practically under the Constitution, his mandate begins to run from the moment of his oath, sworn by the National Assembly. Who does the witness swear to? He swears before the authorities who conduct the proceedings, or before the judge, he swears. Nothing here is fundamentally changing. But listening to this debate in particular, and when I saw what amendments you didn't take seriously, it's not about whether or not you're taking them, but you didn't even comment on them. I won't be surprised if you don't accept this amendment. I think you'd be more right and better. You cited two reasons why this amendment is not accepted. This formulation has already been adopted in some other laws, and that is one reason why you did not accept this amendment. Other reasons are reportedly because this word is often repeated several times daily, so it could not be accepted, or changed. It doesn't matter. There was no good will for you to be partially fixed, precise and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59978	Forty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 101 and Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59979	Madam Minister, this is about article 102, which provides for witness protection. I'll read Section 2. – a participant in a procedure or another person who is before the authority of an insult to a injured or witness, threatens or threatens his safety, a public prosecutor or a court will warn him, and the court may fine him up to 150,000 dinars. The essence of our amendment is that this 150,000 dinar figure is replaced by a figure of up to 50,000 dinars. When we decided on this amendment, we also made sure that through this Assembly, what you certainly know, different other laws that have criminal provisions, whether they are economic operators or natural persons, are also meant for certain penalties. And in this law, in another section where the expert and the duties of an expert, which should in any case have far greater responsibility for the court, you've predicted in one situation a fine of 100,000 dinars, and in another of 150,000 dinars, if it refuses the art. We consider that, and in the end, through Article 101 of the Witness Penalty, we suggest it. It's also something like that. We believe that you should accept this amendment and that this amount of 50,000 dinars is absolutely appropriate. We certainly support this position that has been expressed here, that no person in the process can insult a damaged or witness, threaten or threaten security.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59980	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59981	Madam Minister, in the course of so far's debates, I said we've had quite a few good amendments and very high-quality explanations of these amendments. There is an impression, despite the government's failure to accept these amendments, that in some way they, at least what the professional public will conclude by listening to all this, are greatly devalued by this bill of yours. I'm not going to read who wrote everything about the institute of a particularly sensitive witness, but here's this institute in the proposal of Article 103, where in fact this institute was introduced as a hybrid institute that is being examined and which can serve as something that has already been seen in parallel law, especially in The Hague court. This member of 103 provides inconceivable opportunities for the protection of false witnesses. You're justifying the introduction of an institute with a particularly sensitive witness with some accepted international standards. Madam Minister, it is these international standards set out in The Hague court's practice that have shown that false witnesses can be protected by this institute. You don't have a better example of this than that quasi has court of The Hague. Do you have to introduce everything that is the worst of parallel rights? In your explanation, you only mention minors and people with disabilities, such as persons who can be particularly sensitive witnesses. What about those you say in article 103, because of the nature of the crime, that because of the way the crime was committed, that as a result of the execution of the crime and other circumstances, be careful, all these broad concepts, make this witness particularly sensitive? What about them? You don't list them in an explanation, and that's exactly the possibility of abuse. For example, in the manner of committing a crime, the perpetrator may be someone who has committed a very brutal crime and because his companion, for example, is a witness, you give him the status of a particularly sensitive witness and is precisely the possibility of abuse. It is here that a great opportunity is opened for the abuse of this member and not just in the way, I said, both in nature and in the consequences of execution and code, says other circumstances. A truly broad spectrum in which you can restore this particularly sensitive witness. That's why we are opposed, in principle, to the institute itself, therefore, to the establishment of an institute of a particularly sensitive witness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59982	It was used a minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59983	This amendment concerns a special protection measure, i.e. a protected witness. If the court has denied the identity of a protected witness and the defendant, because he has found that their discovery would question life, freedom, the right of another person, an unprotected witness or a close person, then why is the identity of a protected witness revealed in the first place, and especially why is it revealed 15 days before the main search and how did the bill promoter come to know that this danger would no longer exist? Well, that's the question we're referring to. I may accept that I didn't understand this very well, but from the interpretation of this amendment it's absolutely not clear to me, so I really don't see the reason why, if there was a solution left as provided for in the bill, why would I question these rights that the protected witness has. So it's not about ordinary rights, it's about the most important rights, the right to life, freedom, health, all the other rights that are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59984	The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59985	The amendment refers to article 108, where we suggest that article 108 be deleted. Article 108 regulates the decision to determine the status of a protected witness. If an estimated person who may eventually appear as a witness is physically threatened, he, his family, or a close person, can be assigned the status of a protected witness. A protected witness is one category that the Serbian Constitution does not know. In the earlier period when there were far fewer crimes, he was not even familiar with criminal-processing legislation. Madam Minister, have you done any analysis since there's been a protected witness, whether the number of crimes is increasing or not? Indeed, if an analysis is made, it will be seen that much more crimes are committed than the introduction of a protected witness, than before. There's more crime, there's more corruption, there's more light and severe bodily injuries, there's killings, there's more to it now than before the introduction of a protected witness. In case we have a protected witness, have you considered the introduction of a protected judge and then a protected prosecutor? So all those involved in the process process should be protected if this means anything. The best example, the Serbian public could see what and how much protected witnesses mean and how dangerous it is, is the Hague tribunal. We have a serious suspicion that you have accepted the process actions of The Hague tribunal to the greatest extent in the drafting of this bill. You shouldn't have done that in any way. You've seen that it's not a court, it's an anti-judgment, it's something quite the opposite of that. I suppose you could have learned on this case that these institutes you are now introducing will certainly not reduce or prevent the execution of crimes that have been so far, nor, I suppose, will make the procedure more effective and more correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59986	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59987	I think, again, that it is necessary for the public to say that, thanks to some protected witnesses, many crimes have been exposed, i.e. by establishing an institute of witness associates before the Special Court. On the day of the murder of the former prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, one witness saw on the streets of Admiral Geprat, the one who killed the prime minister and the other person who was with them accompanied. That witness is dead today. After the assassination of the Ibari Masteral, also one important witness is also dead and both murders are not enlightened until today and it is not difficult to guess what happened to them or Zoran Vukovic, a member of the Zemun clan, who was an associate witness. Therefore, this institute has a great excuse to this end. Should we, for example, talk about many Albanian witnesses who were to testify in the Kosovo Albanian trial for crimes committed against the Serb population? Maltenes are all dead, rarely who could appear before The Hague tribunal. If they had this institute, it certainly would have helped to shed light on many crimes. As far as the judge's safety is concerned, it's regulated by other matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59988	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 109th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59989	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You see, this member is very problematic. These are the liars we introduce to our legislation. A liar can't be bigger but a protected witness, for money he'll do anything. We, in the case-law of false witnesses, have had enough, and there are plenty of them in The Hague. What happened? False witnesses in front of these courts, especially in front of one court, in previous checks and talks with authorized individuals, gave statements and accused others. In a contradictory procedure at the trial, they made another statement, for the one who promised them a little bribe had given them, and they expected much. When he came, as he would say, before Milos, before the judge, the judge should interrogate him, the suspect, the accused, or the accused, who are called, have the right to face him. What's he running to face with such liars and con men? What are we throwing out? It is not Serbia's criminal state that we all have to say – we need now protected witnesses. Now the state will have to have a special budget for liars. Don't do that, please. Serbia existed, our judiciary and legislation worked, but this institute is unknown and it is very dangerous and harmful. What do you need him for? He's an extra here, a harmful surplus.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59990	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59991	This article 110. The bill regulates the question of how to store data on a protected witness. We have not reacted simply to how they are kept, nor whether they are kept, in any way, because, simply, we have asked to delete this member of the bill for reasons that we, as I said for a little while and as my colleagues have said, against introducing into our legal system the institution of a protected witness. It simply does not know our tradition, nor does our Constitution, and it should not in any way be inserted into our legal system. You say that the introduction of a protected witness institution is in fact protected by witnesses who, by their testimony, can allegedly endanger life, then witnesses who can endanger health, who can endanger freedom and who can endanger property of greater scale. I think it's an absolutely demagogue story, that it's a hollow story. Why? Since the world and century, Madam Minister, I'm sure you know that, there have been witnesses who have testified in the process that, for example, they witnessed mass murder. On the question of judges – do you see and recognize in this courtroom the person who committed this mass crime, the witness says – yes, this is the defendant. So he's talking to the court to recognize that face, simply, facing it in a courtroom with that face. Why are you introducing that category of protected witness now? This has been since the Holy Ages. And then I guess the witnesses could be protected, and they weren't protected. Now you've found yourself introducing them, someone told you that and you're doing it. Which is why you need a protected witness rather than just to be able to do dirty work. That's what the practice has shown, and it's just like that. We oppose the introduction of a protected witness institution, and we think this is absolutely unnecessary in our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59992	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59993	It's a similar explanation to my predecessors, with Article 12 expanding the circle of the person who should be given adequate status as a protected witness. The draft law in Article 112 states: "Articles 105 to 111 of this Code shall be applied accordingly to the protection of a hidden investigator, expert, expert advisor and expert person." I asked to delete the provision of Article 112 because our practice is very bad. What's our practice? The person who has received the status of a protected witness is protected all day long, or a particular circle of face is concerned about their safety for 24 hours. What do we have in practice? In Novi Sad, I see the situation almost daily – the best car and probably the most professional people work on these jobs. But what are these people doing? They drive a protected witness, his wife, his children, relatives, friends, etc. It's best to check in the bar where these people live, because they can't spend 24 hours in the car. Do you know what they do at the bar? We know why you're going there. But do we protect it and the child by driving it, the child, the wife, the market, the children to school, etc. That's what the citizens see, but you don't see it, you don't hear it. You only hear a warrant – a protected witness, an international European standard, it must be introduced. Now you suggest that the following persons be included in the circle of the person, in addition to the protected witness: the undercover investigator, the expert advisor and the professional face. How long? How many people does it take? How many cars does it take? We don't have vehicles for normal functioning of state organs, and now we're going to spread the circle of faces to dozens and hundreds and thousands. From where? From what means to finance it? It's harmful and unnecessary, and our practice is catastrophic. Minister, you're responsible for this. Whoever I asked, any statement about a protected witness, that's ridiculous. The people are making fun of all this. Because he sees the practice that someone who has committed so many crimes is protected, with a huge escort, with the best car, etc. It's a mockery of law, justice, truth, etc. That's what you're in for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59994	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. National MP, your MP card is not in the electronic system. You're throwing yourself out of place and you don't feel like you're breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at all. Justice Minister Snezana Malovic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59995	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply have an obligation to point out to you the difference between a particularly sensitive witness, a protected witness, a witness of an associate, or, according to this new bill, as it is called, the accused witness. So, what you've been talking about so far is the witness of an associate. These provisions you have submitted to the amendments refer to a protected witness, meaning a witness who is in criminal proceedings, the most regular witness, who was not a member of a particular organization, but has knowledge that can help lighting. This person needs certain measures provided for in this law and certain other laws and, of course, provides for a procedure concerning his examination. So all that you're talking about is a witness of an associate, not a protected witness.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-15-0.u59996	By explaining Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, we are finishing work for today. We will continue at 10.00 p.m. tomorrow, continuing the search in detail, or by discussing the amendments. The amendment to the search tomorrow, on Friday, September 16th, at 10.00pm, is an amendment to Article 113 submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 76 MPs attend the session, and in order to determine the number of MPs whose identification cards have been inserted into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please insert your identification cards by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I find that the application of the electronic voting system found that there are 87 identification cards present in the electronic system, as well as another number of MPs present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Milos Radulović, MP Momo Colaković and MP Zoran Bortic. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Chairman, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session, next to the representative of promoter Snezana Malovic, justice minister, to be attended by Jovan Ćosic, head of the justice department and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the group at the justice ministry. We continue the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE I remind the MPs, that by finishing yesterday, on September 15th at 19.15, we have stopped by searching the details and that it is up to the amendment to Article 13 submitted by MP Petar Jojic and before I ask if anyone wants a word, I remind the MPs of the time available for both representatives or authorised presidents of parliamentary groups and MPs. A party of united pensioners - PUPS has a total time for both representatives and the group; the Manjina parliamentary group has 11 minutes available to the president of the parliamentary group; the New Serbia parliamentary group has the total time available for both the representative and the group; the LDP parliamentary group, the authorised representative has 12 minutes and the parliamentary group has the total time; the SPS - JS Group has the total time available for both the representative and the group; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, the representative of the parliamentary group has two minutes and 15 seconds; the parliamentary group has three minutes; the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia, the authorised representative has the total time and the parliamentary group has 23 minutes; the United Regions of Serbia Group has the total time available for representatives and for the group; the SRS parliamentary group, the delegation group has 12 minutes and 30 seconds; and the parliamentary group of representatives have a total of 13 minutes; and the group of seats are available to the group of Serbs for the group of representatives. On the basis of Article 90, I am also giving the following notice of the course of work of today's session. Once we have completed the search in detail of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a regular hour-long break will be set. If the Rules of Procedure are obtained by certain conditions and the Government's opinion comes to us on amendments to the draft law on litigation, then the particulars search will begin after the break that has been set, and today's work will be completed, how unusual to inform us of this, according to the Rules of Procedure established at 1800 hours. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
