ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55729	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. To correctly determine the quorum, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are more than 84 of us present, so there are conditions for work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure. (Yes) Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55730	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the Presevo police station last week, May 31st, the president of the Human Rights Committee, Belzim Kamberi, was heard. On that occasion, he was questioned on the subject of the establishment of a billboard, during a neatly reported protest rally, over a known problem of non-recognition of a Pristina University diploma. This informative police conversation was conducted on the basis of an ongoing criminal offence of reputation, due to racial, religious, national and other belongings, by the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office. Exactly, because of this famous billboard, which said it was – at the Faculty of Law "5. October" in Belgrade, student Milan Markovic received a general score of 10 for disrespecting the human rights of citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. After media update of the case, Minister Markovic said the sentence does not offend him and does not want this procedure to be conducted. [[(President: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can't hear Mr. Halimi at all.) I beg you, yes...)]] Then the question is rightly raised – if the minister is not offended, which is also confirmed by the fact that the criminal proceedings are not initiated by his private suit, who is then in charge, within the prosecutor's office and by what legal basis, that an estimate of the alleged damage to the reputation of a public figure, in this case the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government? Also, the question arises – on what basis is it seen as an injury to public criticism directed to Minister Markovic, who is also the president of the Coordination Body, because of the lack of the mentioned very sensitive diploma problem, which has the consequences of denying the right to work for young Albanians in this area? If criminal proceedings are launched against the president of the Committee on Human Rights, which, as the first NGO, has been working successfully in this area for 12 years and for this work there are a number of domestic and international recognitions, it is a very clear message to others not to criticise state institutions or the Co-ordination Body, which is the Government's Authority for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and even when the Co-ordination Body is unauthorizedly involved in the legal competencies of local authorities, including the National Council of Albanians. In fact, this drastic incrimination suggests discrimination, which unfortunately still exists in this country, is just the highlight of the practice that has been taking place all the time through the practice of the Basic and Higher Prosecutor's Office in Vranj. I have already asked through parliamentary questions for explanations, first of all, for a criminal case against journalists "Bujanovac", for reporting from one event meeting in Bujanovac, secondly, and for a criminal case against the doctor "Home of Health" in Bujanovac, on charges that they have vaccinated children who were allegedly not sure whether they were born in domestic conditions or in Kosovo's maternity wards. Bujanovic doctors have been accused of damaging the state for the amount that several families from Bujanovac received through a child's allowance for their own children. The achievement of the child's supplement, the inoculation of children, freedom of expression and information, as well as the established right to work, which is why a protest rally was held, which highlighted the discriminatory billboard, belongs to the Corps of Fundamental Human Rights, which, unfortunately, is not yet realized in this area. The solution to these problems can certainly not be achieved through these criminal proceedings by the Prosecutor's Office in Vranj. (President: Time. ) In fact, these life issues can only be resolved through a democratic process. Mr. Halimi, time. ) So I ask the question, will someone take appropriate measures to prevent further destructive activities of the Prosecutor's Office in Vranj? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55731	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55732	My question is to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. A Strategic Military Conference for Partners is being held in Belgrade from June 13th to 15th, organised by the Federal Command for the Transformation of the NATO Pact. Maintaining this conference in Belgrade is unacceptable for the DSS, due to several very controversial, problematic issues. First, the Republic of Serbia is the resolution that has been brought into the National Assembly by a military neutral state and it is truly unacceptable and inexplicable that we are hosting one of the two most important Allied transformation commands in Belgrade, under the decision that we are military neutral. This decision is a fact-finding out of military neutrality, because we are the only state in the Partnership for Peace process that has not said that it intends to enter the NATO Pact, but that we formally want to remain militaryly neutral. The second issue is the topic to be discussed. It is stated – after Lisbon, implementation of the transformation. At the NATO Pact Summit in Lisbon in the NATO Pact Strategy and in the Declaration that was brought there, a number of issues directly affecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and our national interest have been identified. There, the NATO Pact says directly that it supported the training of "Kosovo's security forces" and that, thanks to the support in Kosovo, peace, security, as it is said, for members of ethnic minorities. Furthermore, in this document, no country is called on in any place to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which is at risk, but is seeking support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all those countries that have controversial territorial issues and unresolved problems, starting with Moldova, from Georgia, from Armenia, etc. The document welcomes the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to Euro-Atlantic integration and defines the new role of the NATO Pact as someone who will intervene, it said, beyond its borders, when it estimates that its interests are at stake and is managed by the experience of interventions in the Western Balkans. E, those views should be discussed in the middle of Belgrade and Belgrade should support that. And above all, the NATO Pact, as a military alliance, bombed the Republic of Serbia, caused huge human casualties and material damage, and this event should in fact send a message that it was all forgotten, that "they forgave us for bombing" and that we move on. This power may have forgotten, but the citizens of Serbia certainly did not! These three important and controversial points of dissension between us and the NATO Pact cannot possibly be something that needs to be crossed over and agreed to host a military neutral state such a gathering. So I ask the government and the ministry - why is the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia being violated by which Serbia is a military neutral country?- I'm sorry. The second question, why deepen relations with this military alliance in a situation where it directly violates the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and threatens our vital and national interests with its activities and policies?- I'm sorry. This is an event that no one in Serbia will support, an event that offends all those who have suffered the damage and who suffered the suffering during the bombing. The best thing to do would be to postpone it, but in any case, it is hardly possible to expect such a decision from this government, which is, the only thing it does, is to drive Serbia into a NATO pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55733	The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55734	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask the Minister of Health. This problem dates back to 2006, in force of the Health Insurance Act. Belgrade University students gathered nearly 15,000 signatures for a petition to amend the Health Insurance Act. Since 2006, the fight of students and dentists from the Student Policlinic has started, letters have been sent to the President of the Republic, and to the competent minister and the Republic Health Insurance Institute with the same requirement – to abolish participation in dental services. Polyclinics in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis have become empty because students do not have the means to pay for this type of service. This phenomenon has caused far-reaching consequences, dentists are humiliated, students are desperate. It is absurd for students and ordinary citizens to pay the same price for the same type of service in one country. The current situation is that students are getting less and less into student polyclinics, more and more suffering from tooth disease. They usually come when it's too late and there's gotta be a extraction. I ask the question – where does this country lead, does the intellectual elite of this society need to be fragile in order for this society and this country to take some measures? Advocacy for young people in student polyclinics has been abolished, the collection of dental services is the current state of affairs in Serbia and again we come to the principle of equal opportunities that we so mention these days in the Law. That principle is scandalous, because students who have money will be treated, and students who don't have money won't be treated. The dentists, about 15 of them at the Belgrade Student Policlinic, four in Novi Sad, seven in Nis, became social cases because they receive salaries exclusively from the realization, i.e. from the effect. As for parallel rights and surrounding countries, in Croatia, in BiH, the situation is different. This type of service is not charged to students. A year and a half ago, these students were told by the D.A. that there was a failure. My specific question for the Secretary-General is – will he direct them to parliament to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act and free students from paying dental services, first of all to free them from the humiliation and pain they suffer, and dentists to enable normal work and that we, as a society, begin to care for young people? And as Picasso said, whoever wants to do something finds a way, who will not, finds a justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55735	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I just want to draw attention to certain institutions that, recently, frequent attacks on Roma nationality have occurred. We have recently had attacks on Roma in Požega, Chačka, Književci, Zrenjanin, Banatska Karajordev and Belgrade. I know they're individuals. It can't, as some say, be racism. Serbia has never been a racist country. That is why I appeal and pray to the institutions, especially the Ministry of Serbia, because we have a very capable ministry to prevent these attacks. But if more attacks like this happen, then it'll really go in another direction, so we won't be able to talk like that. This parliament passed the first anti-discrimination law. I believe this is not Serbia, these are individuals who want to destabilise Serbia and its entry into the EU and who want to prevent the democratisation of Serbia, which has already begun. But that doesn't concern me so much from the outside that I'm a little surprised with a certain MP who's here in parliament, whom I greatly appreciate and respect, the other night on the "Requestor" show, Mr. Vela Ilic, I don't know where he gets it from, tells him about some pie maker, some trade and voting. I am a people's messenger and I vote by my ethics, by my morals, by my belief! Nobody offered me money, I didn't ask for it, I'll never do it, nor did anyone give me a treat! That's what I did and did, because I raised two loans that I pay this country a month about 100,000 dinars. And it shouldn't be given label to one representative of the Roma community here in Parliament by individuals, because it doesn't fit the facts or the truth, and we all know what the haranga was like a few months ago, when the yellow press wrote about me! Soon I will make the decisions and judgments of certain judicial authorities that have been taken to my advantage, because it was all a lie and a lie at the expense of me and the Roma community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55737	MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55738	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister – why more, after three years of this government, is now the fourth year, being manipulated by one problem and constantly being mentioned in all possible media, in all public appearances of people from the ruling coalition, so that everything can be done in Serbia, but that there are no projects, that the previous governments have not done the project documentation, for example, for "coordinates"? It's not true there aren't any projects. The projects have been done. In this House there was a concession “Nish – Dimitrovgrad”, it could not have been a concession “Nis – Dimitrovgrad” in a public tender, given that it was a non-profit business and no one answered the tender without any project documentation. "Horgosh – Požega" was also an international public tender and the world's largest giants for this concession appeared, and it is impossible that no project documentation was made. Also for the "Odnica" around Belgrade, also "Beška – Novi Sad" and a number of other projects that have been completely done, studies completed, done idea projects, geomechanical tests, geodesy, etc., all finished, marked corridors etc. However, private companies have now come into existence, where leaders from former companies and Road Directorates have passed over, stolen documentation and projects and transferred them to private houses dealing with project making, and are now reporting in tenders that these same projects offer in some tenders that demand to be published. I am looking for an answer to the question – how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not know that the projects were done, if the Faculty of Civil Engineering and the Faculty of Architecture did an audit of the project documentation, there are contracts and so on? I'm asking you to get rid of it and break up once and for all. And no more talking – we have money, and we have no projects. That's not true! We have projects, which are unfortunately removed somewhere, but we don't have the money to do a piece of the project. It is true that no performance projects have been done, but the performance projects are only done when project documentation is obtained and when the contractor is designated in the tender. Then he works gradually, a section by section of the project documentation, depending on the technology that the contractor will apply on certain parts, such as overpasses, tunnels, underpasses, bridges and so on, he will project it himself. Therefore, projects exist, projects remain, projects are removed and now some private houses whose directors are people who have been directors in the previous few generations, and some of these directors, who have now moved to the private sector, are from the ruling coalition, and now offer project documentation to be done again, which is not justified at all. I would ask resolution ministers, and the prime minister himself, to take certain steps, to see if certain institutions have made an audit of the project documentation, if the project documentation has been done, and where is the documentation project?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55739	Thank you. National MP Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55740	Thank you. While this institution is looking for explanations and asking questions that are needed for work, it still makes sense, I want to remind the government and the authorities that we still haven't received an answer to the question – compensation for state secretaries and similar, conditionally speaking, officials, for whom in the means of public information, it has been announced that they will have the right to severance, around 80 of them, it is 30 state secretaries and chiefs of cabinets, and in fact, it is about persons who, by the laws of this country, have no right to compensation, and to try to prevent damage, which can result in the illegal payment of the government's reconstruction, which has resulted in the release of a number of excess employees. I would also like to remind myself that the MUP owes an answer to the question – on whose orders are it that the owners of already registered motor vehicles have to replace the license plate they now possess during the extension of the registration, although no other regulation obliges them to do so? We asked for an act under which Serbian citizens are obliged to expose themselves to this harassment and cost. We asked for an answer to the question – what will the MAP do about the extension of the registration of a vehicle that is carried out with long waiting in large rows and that traffic permits are issued immediately, in a very short time, without that and such waiting? The basic question, to which there is still no answer, is – on the basis of which criteria and regulations the Government has set the costs paid by vehicle owners for issuing and replacing license plates and documents, which, according to the Home Minister himself, are about four times the actual cost of costing these tables? Even through the Information Commissioner, we asked for information on the regulation or other act which the vehicle owners undertake to make changes to the license plate, or we asked for information on whether such an act exists at all. And we've been looking for copies of those contracts that have been arranged to question the delivery of license plates and license forms, and we still don't have the answers to those questions. Also, one parliamentary question for Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who has long been waiting for answers, is – why has the Ministry of Infrastructure not taken over the inspection of air traffic until today? That's the first one. ) Why were there not four rulings by the Administrative Court which annulled the decisions on the withdrawal of permits for the work of the “Cosmos Er” airline from Belgrade, although the deadline for execution expired several months ago, and does the minister intend to initiate proceedings against the competent managers of the Civil Aviation Directorate for failing to execute judgments and for the adoption of illegal solutions, but also for the damage caused by the Republic of Serbia? (That's the second question. ) The third question concerning Minister Mrkonjic, this case, is – does the minister have any information on the amount of damage that the Republic of Serbia will have to pay from the state budget for the illegal withdrawal of an aircraft company that has been unable to carry out air traffic for more than three years? In order for these questions and this Rules of Procedure and this paper to make sense, I ask those who have not answered the questions asked to deliver them and also to thank Mr Ciric, who delivered me within the prescribed time limit, however, part of the answer to the question I have asked, but for which he is in charge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55741	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55742	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Justice Minister Snezani Malovic and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic – which is why the authorities have not yet revealed the background of the incident at the SRS protest rally over the shameful arrest and extradition of General Ratko Mladic, who held 29. May?- I'm sorry. Also, why are young people pulled out of the bus and beaten up by the police, even though they didn't participate in the incidents, because, as you know, if someone is a suspect, the police can bring him in, and there's no right to beat him? It is not people's fault that they are young and that they are in urban transport, for example. However, incidents appear to have been agreed and have been organised previously, and this, in response to cabinet chief Boris Tadic, Miodrag Rakic and Aleksandar Vukic. Look at these details. After an hour and 15 minutes of rally, a smaller group of people began breaking a bus station across the street from the National Assembly. They even attacked people who came to the SRS rally and some SRS MPs. The question is, why? Whether the incident was organised by Aleksandar Vukic and cabinet chief Boris Tadic, to whom Tadic recently assigned another significant function, is now the president of the Bureau for Co-ordination of Secret Service. He's also the secretary of the National Security Council. It's about Miodrag Rakic, of course. Rakic is a man who led the team to find the former commander of the Republika Srpska Army, and the director of the Southeastern Europe Department of the US State Department, Jennifer Bras, wrote that Dejan, the head of their Belgrade-based Hague tribunal office, told her that the meetings of the Action Team, officially chaired by Rasim Ljajic and prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic, in fact, were run by Miodrag Rakic, head of the president's cabinet and secretary of the National Security Council. Who was Miodrag Rakic working with all these years? As you know, Florence Artman, the right hand of Carla del Ponte, publicly provided the following information, that 22 Pentagon and CIA specialists organized the work of The Hague prosecutor, that Jeffrey Najs, an agent of the British Intelligence Service, was the prosecutor in the case against Slobodan Milosevic, that Bill Stubner, the chief assistant prosecutor of The Hague tribunal, Richard Goldstone, an American military intelligence agent. So, all this time, Boris Tadic's regime has been working with the British Intelligence Service and the US Intelligence Service, not the UN. By the way, Rakic is a private very good friend with Aleksandra Vukic. It is known that these two were walking the coast of the sea in Cheveningen. The role of couples in Serbia's security breach should also be examined: Vukic – Rakic, Nikolic – Tadic for the project of a two-party system, prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic and Serž Brammerc, who began to touch under the table on May 26th. The question is raised about the SRS rally – who is detained, who is being prosecuted, and who has been prosecuted from this group run by Tadic's cabinet chief and Aleksandar Vukic? Niko, all of them very quickly released, only those who protested peacefully were detained, who were brought in, beaten, who were serving them to deceive the public, to show that alleged wrongdoers would be punished. The next question is very interesting to the same officials. When was Ratko Young man arrested?- I'm sorry. How long has he been held in custody and where has he been held?- I'm sorry. Is he tortured?- I'm sorry. According to the first publicly published photo, Mladic is in his jacket, underneath him has a sweater and wears a raised hat. In that photograph he had short hair without a sideburn. However, in the later photo, after some time, from the “Special Court” it is clearly seen from the profile that it has longer hair and sideburns. How is that possible? Does that mean General Mladic has been kept in isolation for a while? Is he tortured? Who was holding him, agents of British intelligence or US intelligence, who were allowed by Boris Tadic's regime to be in the BIA or BIA itself?- I'm sorry. I remind you that according to the European Parliament's 2006 report on secret CIA abductions, it was only forbidden to join the US military base Bondsteel. Also, on the eve of the NATO Pact summit, which you are organising, I ask the question – why is there no NATO Pact bomb in the "Star Forest" in Belgrade, which is weighing two tonnes, which, if it explodes today, can cause enormous damage and kill citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's been so many years, and you haven't demined a NATO pact bomb that was thrown into the aggression of the NATO Pact in 1999 in the middle of Belgrade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55743	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55744	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question, because some events in the country are not clear to me, so I need an explanation. I received an invitation to celebrate 200 years of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, which is a nice holiday, and it will be held on June 12th this year, but I have one question on that basis. It says: "They invite you to attend the celebrations of "Minister's Day", "Police Days" and "Glory Police". How can a state organ in a secular state have fame? On the other hand, how is it possible for the SPC clergy in Kosovo to receive salaries, contributions and other contributions from the Republic of Serbia's budget, while other religious communities in Kosovo do not? How can you do that in a secular state? How can the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia be broken and massively in the sense of secularity, given that a number of public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia have their own fame, although Serbia, I repeat, is a secular state, and that it does not bother anyone, and that, at the same time, every time the decentralisation calls for the Constitution and the inability of its constitution, even more free interpretation, let alone violations, while this is a direct change in the character of the state in which we live? In other words, who will be responsible for Serbia being quietly translated from secular to theocratic state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55745	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorized presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) According to Article 86(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 128 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the proposings Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice and Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have called for the members to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zlatko Petrovic, Head of Justice and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Standard Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. With a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the request of 128 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold the Second Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the next Dn e n ir d 1. Proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, submitted by the Government, 28 April 2011 and 2. Proposal for a law amending the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government on 20 May 2011. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia Parliamentary Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 24 minutes; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slav group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this item of the agenda, representatives of the parliamentary groups will be: MP Milisav Petronijevic – Parliamentary Group SPS-JS, MP Miroslav Petkovic – Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Krasic – Parliamentary Group of the SRS and MP Elvira Kovac – Parliamentary Group of Minorities. I suggest that we wait for the proposer's representative and start work at 11.00. Notice of the Chair of the National Assembly, 11.10 lessons (President Gordana Komic: Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with Articles 27 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that today's break will be set at this time and that we will continue our work in the morning work at 12.00 hours. The reason for the relatively unusual timing of the break now, and not at 1400 hours, is the responsibility of the chairman to ensure the presence of a proposing representative who will present his vision of how good the law is before us. So, I'll see you at 12:00. Thank you. ) [[After break – 12.15]] We're going back to work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES OF THE POLICISTICS Does the proposing representative, Minister Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55747	Thank you, President. Respected National Assembly presidents, respected MPs, funding the work of political parties and at all other political entities is certainly one of the central themes of democracy, it seems to me in our society more than in the countries we look up to, given the frequent doubts that more or less rights fall on political actors. Therefore, it is necessary to pass a law on funding political activities, which will regulate the financing of political activities and precisely lay down rules to ensure that all political entities, firstly, under equal conditions, can obtain financial resources, and then, strict control must be established. This control must be twofold, one is public control, which means that the law must introduce full openness mechanisms, transparency in the acquisition and spending of financial resources and another part of the control concerns state authorities, which means that the law must lay down clear rules and provide for clear authority of entities that can exercise control. In addition, given our previous experience, it is necessary for the law to contain instruments of coercion, i.e. penalties, in case someone does not respect the provisions of this law. The current Finance Act, which was adopted since 2003, contains significant normative shortcomings that relate to the lack of an effective mechanism of financing the work of political entities, election control campaigns, hence, the financing of the work of election campaigns, as well as the spending of funds collected for this purpose from public and private sources. The law was changed in 2008, when the competencies of the Republic Election Commission and the National Assembly Finance Committee were transferred to the New Educational Anti-Corruption Agency. However, this change was not enough, since there are no adequate legal solutions to control and sanction law violations. This is unfortunately also seen in the European Commission's 2010 Progress Report on Serbia, which states that a new law is needed to ensure more transparent financing of political parties and better control of expenditure, as well as that the existing law has serious shortcomings and does not provide the Anti-Corruption Agency to successfully monitor the financing of political parties, especially during the election campaign. In view of these reasons, the government approached the creation of a new law and in February 2010 formed a Working Group whose close composition consists of representatives of the resolution ministries, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the National Assembly Offices and representatives of NGOs, which are in principle and specifically concerned with the problem of funding political parties and fighting corruption, and were in the wider composition of this working group representatives of parliamentary political parties. The task of the working group's narrow composition was to prepare the initial working text of the law, after which a broader composition was included in the work which discussed the prepared text and gave its proposals and suggestions in order to improve the proposed solutions. When drawing up the text of the draft law, the Working Group took into account the laws and practices of European countries, the country's recommendation to combat corruption by the Council of Europe, or GRECO. On the occasion of this text, several public debates and round tables were held. Also, on the text of this law, the opinions of the Venice Commission, the OSCE, as well as the European Commission, were produced on two occasions in December 2010 and March of this year, and the observations contained in these opinions were included in this proposed text before you today. On 12 May 2011, the Justice and Administration Committee organised a public hearing on this legislative proposal. Now I will present to you the most important solutions contained in this bill on financing political activities. The law itself is divided into eight chapters: Introductory provisions, Sources and way of funding, Funding the regular work of political entities, Financing the costs of an election campaign, Keeping records and reporting, Procedure and decision-making in case of violations of the law, Penalties and, of course, Transitional and Final Provisions. Introductory provisions stipulate that the law regulates sources and ways of funding, records and control of the financing of political activities of political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens. The subject matter of the law has been laid out broader than the applicable law, as it regulates the issue of funding of regular work not only by political parties, but also by coalitions and groups of citizens who have their representatives in the National Assembly, or the assembly of autonomous provinces, or units of local self-government. When it comes to sources and how political entities are financed, the law rules, as so far, two types of sources from which political entities are financed: public and private sources of funding. Public sources of funding constitute the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the autonomous province's budget and the budget of the unit of local self-government, intended to finance political activities, as well as other regulations of certain services and goods, given without compensation or under conditions deviating from market authorities and other organisations whose founder is the Republic, autonomous province or local self-government units. These other services include the provision of business space for the purposes of political entities, access to public information means and other services in accordance with the relevant act adopted by state and other bodies in the exercise of public authority. In particular, the obligation to give these services and good goods on equal terms, without discrimination, to all political entities. Private sources of financing of a political entity as they have so far constitute membership fees, contributions, inheritance and income from assets. Compared to the current law, new private sources are legislation and borrowing from banks and other financial organisations, while revenues from the promotional activities of political parties have been abolished. The special paper is to remove restrictions from the current law on the amount of funds from private sources intended to finance political entities. According to the current law, the amount of funds from private sources collected by the political party for regular work can be up to 100% of the funds received from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The draft law abolished this restriction, but a solution on the restriction that a legal or natural person can give to a political entity is retained, by doubled the total amount and by the proposal of the law amounts to a maximum of 20 average monthly earnings for a natural, or 200 average monthly earnings for a legal person. In order to more effectively control the financing of political entities, the bill requires that the funds given in the form of contributions to the political entity are made exclusively by payment from the current account of the contributor, and the political entity is obliged to record each contribution, as well as to make public the payment, whose value is higher than one average monthly earnings per year on its website. The special paper is the arrangement of how to raise funds from membership fees. The bill stipulates that the membership fee is paid exclusively from the current account of a member of the political party, except for the amount of up to 1,000 dinars per year, where it can be paid in cash or via a payment card, which is, of course, the issue of receipt certificates. This enables more effective control of the funding of political parties based on membership fees. As in the current law, a ban on the financing of political parties by foreign countries is maintained; foreign natural and legal persons, anonymous donors; public institutions, public enterprises, companies and entrepreneurs who perform services of general interest; an institution and undertakings with the participation of government capital; other organisations and individuals who exercise public authority; a union; associations and other non-profit organisations; churches and religious communities; a gambling director; an importer, exporter and producer of excise products; legal entities and entrepreneurs who have reached and unsettled obligations on the basis of public income. The paper says that the political party can be financed through the contributions of international political associations, with these contributions not being made in money. It is also prohibited to contribute to a political entity through a third party, as well as to conceal the identity of the contributor or the amount of the contributions, and a ban on exerting pressure, i.e. giving privileges in the collection of funds for the financing of political entities is also required. A political entity's obligation to pay funds is also prescribed to be collected against the provisions of this law at the expense of the grantor within 15 days, if that is not possible, at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bill regulates the financing of the regular work of a political entity. The bill stipulates that public sources of funds to finance political entities that have their representatives in the presidential bodies are set at 0.15% of the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government. In order to allocate these funds more correctly and to improve the work of national minority political entities, the draft law provides for a different way of disbursing funds from public revenues to finance their regular work. In part of the bill, which regulates the financing of election campaign costs, it is prescribed that public sources in the year in which elections are held are determined to fund 0.1% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the autonomous province, or local self-government unit. One of the most significant newspapers is certainly also the introduction of an electoral guarantee by a political entity. A political entity intending to use funds from old sources to finance the election campaign is obliged to place an election guarantee at the level of the funds it is due from public sources. The electoral guarantee consists of laying down cash, bank guarantees, government securities of value or mortgage on immovable property. The bill stipulates that a political entity that does not win 1% of the votes in force in the elections, or a political entity representing the interests of a national minority and does not win 0.2% of the votes in force, is required to return the funds received to finance the election campaign from public sources, within 30 days of the date of the final election results being announced. This achieves greater responsibility for all political entities participating in the election campaign. As I said at the outset, one of the biggest shortcomings in the applicable Law is the regulatory irregularities of control and surveillance operations in this area, for this reason, the provisions of Chapter V of the Law are precisely governed by the obligations of political entities relating to the conduct of accounting records and the submission of financial reports, as well as the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency in the business of controlling the financing of political entities. When it comes to the criminal provisions of the newspaper, it is a regulation of a special crime. This criminal act sanctions the granting, i.e. the acquisition of funds to finance a political entity against the provisions of this law, in order to conceal the source of funding or the amount of funds collected by political entities, a fine from three months to three years in prison is prescribed for the basic form of this criminal act. In addition to the crime, violations of the political party and violations of financial fund providers, as well as those responsible for violations of the law, have been prescribed. These violations are subject to fines for a political party and a legal entity of between 200,000 and 2 million dinars, and for responsible persons of between 50 and 150 000 dinars, as well as entrepreneurs of between 100,000 and 500,000 dinars. Also, a maximum time limit has been set for the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure, which is allowed by our Law on Violations, which is a five-year period when the offence was committed. The draft law also provides for the possibility of giving specific measures consisting of a suspension, i.e. the loss of the right to obtain funds from public sources for the financing of a political entity. The measures to suspend the transfer of funds from public sources shall be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, or the unit of local self-government, at the request of the Agency, in the event that a criminal offence or offence has been committed by this law. The transitional and final provisions stipulated that the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law would be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. Finally, I hope that, after the debate in the National Assembly, this bill will be passed, creating normative assumptions for the transparent work and financing of political entities, which should contribute to further democratisation of our society and the improvement of our political system in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55748	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome on your behalf a group of students and teachers from Leskovec High School, who are visiting the home of the National Assembly, and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the great hall. Attending are: Milica Ilic, Slobodan Nedeljković, Katarina Argirović, Jelena Jovanovic, Nikola Stojanović, Milan Aradjelović, Stefan Stankovic, Smilja Gorčić, Miljana Stanisavljevic, Milica Kostić, Emilia Zivkovic, Emilia Stanković, Aleksandra Kostic, Savana Kostić, Novak Stamenković, Maja Mitrović, Luka Petrovic, Julia Sredković, Sanja Stamenković, Angela Stomenović, Nadja Vukadinović, Lazar Kojić, Jovana Jovčić, Nikola Dičić, Mladen Janković, Stefan Mladenov, Marko Momčinović, Miroslava Spastić, Natala Stamenković, Nikola Petrović, Marko Stanmirović, Aleksandra Sitović, Emilia Mitić, Djordan Stanković, Angela Stanković, Angelović, Angelina Donović, Emiliaa Žiljana Žiljana Željana Željana, Jodović and Božilnić. Also present are teachers: Ivana Ilic, school director, Saša Stojanović, Bozidar Stamenković, Milica Dosev Stojanović, Blagica Trkulja and Nikola Stojiljković. Let's give it up for our dear guests. I'm asking, does the Justice Committee's rapporteur want a word? [[Applause]] (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55749	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the SVM and the Minority Parliament Club welcomes and supports what we are discussing today and in a few days we are passing a new law on the financing of political activities, of course, as one of the conditions for obtaining candidate status, but also as one of the conditions on the path of European integration. But it's not just that. We think it is necessary to pass a new law that regulates this area because of ourselves, in order to really fund political parties more transparently and for the sake of better control of it. We believe that the common objective of all of us is to develop a political system, develop parliamentaryism, develop a multi-party system and that it is very important that political parties have money in advance, both for the campaign and for their work activities. It's interesting and I thank the minister for mentioning the work, how he spreads the workgroup as well. I was personally a member of a wider task force working on this bill, but I'd like to ask a very interesting question. The Working Group, as we heard, was made up of representatives of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice and representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and the "wide" Working Group were all of us, representatives of different parliamentary parties, myself as representatives of the SVM and NGOs, i.e. representatives of various NGOs dealing with this topic. It is interesting that the Working Group worked all summer and that, in fact, the final text, proposed by the Working Group to the Government, was finished before the end of last year. The original work plan was to meet him in front of the government in October, November, then journalists, media, mentioned several times that he would meet with the government, so that he did not pass the government, that the government would finally send a partially amended bill to the assembly procedure. It is commendable today, which is already a practice, that the National Assembly organises public listening, especially when it comes to topics that are of paramount importance. As far as this proposal for a law on financing political activities is concerned, public hearing was held on 12 May. It's interesting that today, when we're on the tide and we really need to discuss some details, there's no justice minister, there's very few people from the Working Group who worked on this proposal several months last year and I don't know who can answer some of our questions. But I hope, if not today, at least in the debate in particular, we get answers. The draft law on the financing of political activities is very similar, i.e. based on the 2003 Bill on the financing of political parties, with smaller or greater enlargements. Why do I say it's an extended coverage? It is precisely because this bill does not regulate the financing of only political parties, but, as it is called, political entities, or groups of citizens and coalitions that have their own representatives, both in the National Assembly and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina or in the assembly of units of local self-government. In my address, I will rely most on what we as the Working Group have done, what is the Manjina Parliamentary Group, and what has SVM asked for and why and how and how much is involved in this proposal? That's why I'm going to rely most on funding from public sources. As regards funding from public sources or budgets and so on. It is interesting, for example, that several lists took part in the previous parliamentary elections. But what happened? Only five lists entered parliament after the results were announced and three minority lists. However, at one point, 23 parliamentary parties were funded from the budget, which means that larger coalitions on the larger lists had entered much smaller political entities, and they were all treated as individual entities in funding from the budget. The new proposal brings a big paper, just for the sake of the public to clarify, according to the current law, funding, means that 0.15% not yet expendable at that time, and now it is a proposal to be a spending party, it was divided by 30% of the funds being evenly spent on all parliamentary parties, and it was always about twenty or twenty, or currently 21 or 22, and that 30% of the funds were distributed evenly, and 70% of the funds were distributed on the basis of the number of mandates won, which means that the parliamentary party that had only one MPs, or which had, received a month near 900,000 dinars. The new proposal, originally, which was ahead of the Working Group last summer, envisioned that the linear distribution of funds from a public source be abolished and that the distribution looks so that the entire amount, now 0.15%, of the already expendable parties, is divided on the basis of the number of votes won and that those entering the coalition, no matter how many special political entities are in the coalition, share the money on the basis of a coalition contract. The SVM supports that money should be divided on the basis of a coalition contract, not that these entities are considered individual, but in this way there has been no change, minority parties would be discriminated again, because so far, in practice, such a situation is almost exactly the same as being treated by minority parties that enter parliament individually with an independent list, or those small parties with a larger coalition coming to the elections. This is why we asked that the principle of positive discrimination, the solution that has been found and, thanks to us, to the insistence of minority parties, is now in this bill, is that these 0.15% of the expenditure parties are divided on the basis of the number of votes won in the elections, but with the number of votes up to 5% multiplying by 1.5%. I would like to point out once again that Parliament's Minority Club and the SVM just want to point out the specificity of organising minority parties, the weight of self-election, the independent participation in the election race, and that is where I would like to point out what the work group proposal looked like, and how this proposal lies before us. Therefore, the funding of work in this way is well regulated, but when we talk about campaign financing, the proposal of the Working Group and experts from NGOs dealing with this topic was that all participants in the elections get the same amount of funding after the vote list is announced, depending on how many there are, how many parts are divided by 0.1% of the budget prepared for the elections. However, when this proposal went to the government and came to us, then there remained an old way of funding the election campaign, so the old one, the existing one, and it looks like 20% of these 0.1%, gives equal to all participants in the election race, and 80% later, after the results announced on the basis of the number of mandates, based on how they went in the elections. I don't want to get into the details of whether this is good or not, but I have to pass on the comments of the professional public, and we heard it in the debate when we had a public hearing, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and certain representatives of NGOs, when they tried to answer various questions about the electoral guarantee, that they said that the Working Group, either the "wide" or "sharp", had no answer, because this proposal was not a work group proposal, but had already entered into this bill on the basis of a compromise reached in the Government. As I have already mentioned the electoral guarantee, I would like to point out that this is one of the biggest newspapers and Mr. Minister mentioned the same guarantee in his address. He stressed that the electoral guarantee can only be given in the form of cash, bank guarantees, securities of value or mortgage on immovable property, he mentioned briefly that the electoral guarantee is the type of guarantee and that those who reach 1% in the elections or if it is minority parties 0.2%, which is good, and that Mr. Riza Halimi and I have several times insisted on working group, to make a difference again, because it is not the same 1% for the small party and 1% for the minority party, therefore, if they achieve that result, they do not have to pay back the money they received. But if they do not, they will have to return that money or if they cannot return it he will be charged from that guarantee, from that electoral guarantee, which is good. The question was, why this electoral guarantee, we are all aware that it was happening in the past to be very many designated electoral lists, that they all participate, have a campaign, and then in the elections they don't get or barely get 10,000 votes, how much support it took to hand over the lists, and they got money from the budget to fund their campaign. The proposal of the Working Group is that this introduction of the electoral guarantee, in fact, avoid abuses and that indeed those who can achieve the result of at least 1% or 0.2%, as regards minority parties are involved in the election race. As it is known in general, I was the most based on funding from public sources, but political entities can be financed from both public and private sources. Under this bill, private sources of funding include membership, contribution, inheritance, legislation, income from property, but the latest one being introduced is that credit can also be taken. What I would also like to point out is what has changed since the original proposal made by the Working Group is related to the use of funds to finance the regular work of political entities. The first formulation was very vague, but later it spread, which is very good and will be applied to Article 19, which refers to this topic. And what is really significant is that the funds received from public sources of 5% should be used for membership training and professional training, training with international co-operation, membership training, and that is very important. I believe that everyone who participates and works on political parties should undergo training. What we also heard in the opening presentation of the Bill's proposal and what was less talked about in the public is that this proposal is similar to the previous one – as regards the ban on funding by foreign states, but this time there was a difference, since most of our parliamentary parties represented here, in various international associations, SVM is in the European People's Party. It is significant that we can get help from these associations, not in the form of almost money, but participation in conferences, professional training, councils, etc. In the remaining few minutes, as long as I have left, I'd like to look back on what I said at the very beginning. The passing of this law is important, not only because of the EU and because it is one of the conditions for obtaining candidate status, but because of ourselves, in order to resolve a more transparent, visible financing of political parties, political entities and for control. We know that by adopting the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency to control the financing of political entities from the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia moved to the Anti-Corruption Agency, however, the Agency complained that they had no legal basis, no conditions, no money, etc. to carry out this control. This law brings several newspapers to the Anti-Corruption Agency, and concrete newspapers are that the Agency can make warnings and file criminal charges against various political entities if it finds that there have been certain irregularities in financing. In this proposal there are concrete, explicitly regulated levels of various penalties and they are higher, as we have heard, from 200,000 to 2 million, but it is regulated and under what conditions can the budget funding be lost. Of course, it can happen from 10% and beyond, even 100%. What is even more significant is that as regards the control of public records, i.e. the responsibilities of political entities, political entities that have representatives in representative bodies are obliged to keep a separate record of all gifts, contributions, services provided, without compensation, therefore, of any services provided to them, without certain market conditions. Of course, political entities are required to keep records of the property. All contributions and gifts higher than one average salary per year, a political entity, are required to publish on its site. The political party is obliged to submit an annual financial report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which will publish it on its site, as well as in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Similarly, if the election year and the political entity gets the campaign money, it is required to record the costs of the election campaign to the Agency, which is again obliged to publish it on its website. We believe that funding will be made more transparent and accessible to the public in this way, because there are often criticisms that funding, both regular work and campaign costs of political parties, is somehow always kept secret and that public, membership, voters have no insight into it. This law needs to ensure that. I mentioned that the Anti-Corruption Agency could make warnings and initiate a misdemeanor procedure. Under this new law, it can give warning measures to a political entity if it finds in the control process that there have been some irregularities. The data is possible to suspend the transfer of funds from public sources until the end of a criminal criminal or criminal proceedings. I hope that in this short time I have managed to say everything and that, as the minister and other colleagues will participate actively in this debate. I hope that in the day of voting we will get one really good and good law, both for our own sake and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55750	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55751	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Markovic, 12 minutes for honesty in Serbian politics is too little. And I think this law is being passed so that the parties, which society is experiencing through the source of corruption, would provide themselves with a new kind of legitimacy to the citizens. Well, if this law is so important, if it's one in a series of last laws that is as an obstacle to getting an EU membership bid, why haven't we had a chance to see the Prime Minister here? He was on Friday, meeting with his businessmen, and they agreed to change the business model by 2014. In that day, Dau Jones on the New York Stock Exchange fell 200 points because the report showed that in April, the US economy hired 6,000 fewer workers than the March forecast. I'm telling you so much about the Prime Minister's ability to understand the priorities of this country and then devote itself to them in the right way. We are the party that entered the Assembly in 2007 and said that it insists, in the election of the President of Parliament, on the condition that it is a condition for our support, that it will form a Lustration Commission and thus respect the Law on Lustration and that it will launch a dialogue on the relationship between politics and businesses, that it will open there, not Pandora's box, but, I mean, a normal debate in society, which will give logical answers to simple questions: why would someone invest money in a party and who in a society like Serbia today even has money and how to regulate the relationship between the party and those who have money, and they have it, by the impression of most, thanks to the violation of the law, the privileges they have been given, the accumulation of capital in the 1990s, which is immediately unacceptable to most of whom we address and who we expect to vote for us?- I'm sorry. So, an important question, Mr. Markovic, is a little more important than your button, but I believe that through this debate we will meet two goals: one is to respond to Brussels's request and cross another step on the road to Europe, and the other is to cover our society's eyes. Now, can a society of blurred eyes get to where we're taking him? It's obvious he can't. This law is just another of the imitations and scenes of our political life that we're trying to make up, what we can't make up first, and there's no need for that to happen. First, our criticism of this law stems from the impotence and inability of the promoter, so the government to answer the simple question: why in the poorest country of Europe, a country with the highest unemployment rate, with the lowest average salary, with the highest inflation, would someone give money to a party? We can say that there is 1% of those who want to contribute in this way to their society. And that's an important motive. It's true that people like that exist. Those who honestly say, "I'm doing my job, you're doing your job, I think it's my debt to you and the society I live in to help him in the only way I can, which is by giving money." That's one criterion. Is there someone else who is generally acceptable? I don't think there is. Since there have been parties, there has been business efforts to influence the parties by doing what the nature of business is, which is to make some extra profit, it's faster because it's closer, because it's able to learn more because it's made possible for him because he's close to the ones he's funding. That's right in America, that's right in Europe, that's right in Brussels, that's right in Belgrade, that's right since there's been a policy, and that's how it's gonna be as long as politics exists. Is that what we need to deal with? No, that's what we're supposed to fight. The most effective way to fight it is transparency, openness, clear attitudes, not the hypocritical throw of dust into the eyes and call on anonymous donors or to find out that there is no one on the list of party financiers from those who only have money in Serbia, so campaigns finance some STR actions or companies formed three months before the elections. No Miskovic, no Beko, no Lazarevic, no Kostic, no Markovic, no Cepter, not those who have money?- I'm sorry. Let's start with the logic of your law by having a debate with a member of 12 who regulates the area of the funding ban. So who can't finance parties in Serbia? Parties shall not finance foreign natural and legal persons, anonymous donors, public institutions, public undertakings, companies and entrepreneurs providing services of general interest, institutions and enterprises with the participation of government capital, other organisations and individuals performing public authority, trade union, association and other non-profit organisations, churches, religious communities, game-makers. Who can finance the client? Let's give that format a name. Do you see how the choice narrows down? Why would someone give money to a stranger today? We don't like laws that make us break them at the beginning. I don't think we can regulate the policy and business relationship just through the Party Finance Act. We need a comprehensive reform of political life that would make possible what is normal throughout the world. If Barak Obama's election campaign can stop with Warren Buffett and American businessmen and inform America that he has received their support for his policy, we would like to make such a right possible for Serbia, for example, in the coming year, because it is the next year of the presidential elections. Is that possible under these circumstances? It's not. Then what do we have left? Then we have to commit ourselves to the reconciliation of the obligation we can respond to, which is an obligation stemming from the EU candidate process. And this law has received the European Commission's verification and that's what's most important. That's why we'll vote for him. Another line in Serbia's Europeanisation business, but not the answer to the most important issue, which is the issue of regulation of business and policy relations. Too many general places, Mr. Markovic. What kind of business is of general interest? You're a lawyer, you have years of experience working in local self-government, then at the Ministry. Could that have been precisely defined? What does a job of general interest mean? How are we going to assess that? This law must be clear, it cannot be so stretchy that it is now interpreted by everyone as it comes to mind. See Article 15 – money illegally acquired will be paid into the Republic budget. We think that money should be paid into the account of the Anti-Corruption Agency in order to make it even more effective to fight corruption and, on the other hand, to have an interest in being rigorous in the application of this law. But let's start with the logic that you've come to, Mr. Markovic. Is there a single country in Europe or, say, an EU member country in which the issue of money abuse given to the parties in the election campaign has been resolved in such an unreasonable way. I'll tell you why it's unreasonable. Because you first proposed a solution that was unsustainable, so during the debate in parliament, Nenad Milic, our MP, drew attention to you, so you changed something like that with a less foolish but still foolish solution, which is the attitude in which 0.1% of the Republic's guarantee budget is allocated in the election campaign. That, if we have 10 lists, is about 26 million at the start of the election campaign. Mr. Markovic, now that we know what the profile of people working in the government is, they have nothing, they have no apartment, they don't have a car, if they have something and they have it from dad and mom -- I suggest you, Mr. Markovic, get into any bank and ask for a guarantee for 26 million, to turn to, say, RISK to the bank, so you'll see what kind of obligations you have to meet in order to get a positive answer. You have to deposit the money in the amount of the guarantee you're looking for, therefore, to pay the 26 million from the client's account, which is received by regular public funding, because it's not in the election campaign, to pay the deposit in the amount of the guarantee you're looking for. If you don't have that money, you won't even get a guarantee. If you pay the money, then they'll ask you for a mortgage. As far as I know, a minimum number of parties have properties that are party-owned, mostly the parties use the assets that are leased. And you're losing something like that. On what basis can the party obtain a guarantee in an election campaign of 260,000 euros, which is in line with the law? Is that not a deal with the directors or is that something forbidden by law?- I'm sorry. Can a company be called tomorrow on the party's right to request a procedure by which the party received the guarantee for the election campaign? One of the problems that is very serious is particularly serious because you parties are forcing such a thing, which is also an example that cannot be compared to modern political practice in the domain of funding election campaigns. I'll tell you why, it's not at all in our interest to mortify in banks because we're obliged to pay you a guarantee of 260 thousand euros, and we'll get if we have 10 lists in the election based on 160. That's not worth it, Mr. Markovic. And if it's 15 or 20, we're going to get half of that 60. Here, we agreed easily. You know what the problem is with this law? Why wasn't it written by those people who funded your campaign, and we weren't respected by those who asked for our opinion. This is a serious campaign problem tomorrow. We've referred you to the illogicality of Article 9. After Article 5, we suggested adding paragraphs 6 and 7. Namely, you have made very precise commitments to this member, Mr Markovic, for those who contribute to the party and have made very precise arrangements for the party. Therefore, the party must not be forced to make money and such a thing is strictly sanctioned. Everything must be transparent and in no way later can the counter-services of the party repay the money to the party who gave the money to the party, and the counter-service is everything. Now, we're interested in what happens to those who give money to the party, the party stays in the status of the opposition party, and their greatest rival comes to power, so what does it do with the position of rivals? Then he deals with those who finance his competition! For example, someone paid for the SRS rally in front of the Serbian Parliament when you protested Mladic's arrest. I was there for the arrest of Mladic. Here, don't underestimate, don't depend on the future of this country on my willingness to be a gentleman, so now I say, "Here, I saw, they have to tell them who paid for the rally, on which they, among other things, have destroyed my power, and I won't be the same as every other man, and look to stay in power, but I'll be a gentleman and say, "Okay, let them finance themselves still so, we will help those who finance them to bring us down." Don't let our country rest on such assumptions. As there are clear obligations for the parties and for the financiers, it is a clear obligation for the state to protect those who respect the law, who make public their relationship with the party and compensation for the company and individuals who because they have done their political relationship suffered, we think it must be. If it is determined in accordance with the law, not if someone assesses, but allow it, we have submitted that amendment, that the DS funder can address the state tomorrow and say that he suffered damage because he respected the law. Let our financiers, in addition to the sanctions they are exposed to, if they do not comply with the law, get some rights through this law, to, say, turn to the state and say that they have suffered damage because of their political closeness or the fact that they have financed a party. We think it's important. Otherwise, another general place that will put us in a position to make fun of the law, to find thousands of natural persons who will pay contributions, because we are unable to answer logically the question that is being asked – what will happen to us if you fail tomorrow, so someone else comes to power? If you are in power, you will protect us, but if you are not in power, then who is protecting us? State! The state must be the one who takes on that responsibility. We insist on that law change. What is what, apart from meeting European criteria, is good in this law? Which finally led to the debate on this important issue. We think it would be more logical that it would be open space to talk in the process of defining the party financing law and to those who have money, to consult them, to see what the obstacle to their side is and if there is, how they think it should be solved. There are business associations. Also, I think it is very important and that this should be supported, the fact is that, however, this law is the result of the great work of people who are outside the party sphere of politics. Here, first of all, we're thinking about the Anti-Corruption Agency. And as there's a problem with the fact that they've never been actors of such a job, on the other hand, that agency has managed to take the first step and that's what needs to be appreciated. That's what we support. That is why, among other things, we ask that the money obtained illegally be paid to the Agency in the account, not to the Republic, since the Republic budget is a bottomless hole anyway, we think it's important to give that money to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Or, I apologize, he's a bottomless hole until Dinkic initiates a decentralisation initiative. When it starts, then somehow money will be found in Belgrade. Of course, he found himself, from hollow to empty and back! So, Mr. Markovic, you have LDP support for this bill, but we do not consider it a solution and a final answer to this very controversial topic, which is the policy and business relationship. It is not controversial because we Serbs are like that or because Serbian citizens are like that, but it is on every inch of the planet we live on. Try to remove these illogicalities. We suggested two amendments that we could, one at a time and the other in the day, when we saw these illogicalities, and they bonded with the average profit. In April, inflation is 14%. Imagine that at the end of the year, the average profit falls to the percentage of which it fell in the previous year. We will have a gap between real costs and average earnings in Serbia, and it is a criterion for these 20 and 200 payments of the natural and legal person. The average earnings must be adjusted for the percentage of inflation in the year. So we'll have real money. We entered last year with 380 euros in January, came out with 320. It's less than the resources we have, but there's no cuts in costs. Prices have gone up, and that's why we have to appreciate something like that. I hope the government accepts this initiative. Once again, support for the law. I'm sorry Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here. This is a topic for the Prime Minister, because these topics show the character of a society that wants to face its weaknesses, so try to answer these few questions that I asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55752	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55753	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS Group, I will state the position of our parliamentary group on the draft law on the financing of political activities. I would like to start by saying that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the draft law on the financing of political activities, and that during the course of this debate and during the debate on details, it will have proposals, suggestions and demands, how to further improve this law, in order to make it even more applicable and clearer, because we consider it a very important law. That is why I am now taking the opportunity to call on and proposers to pay good attention to the proposals of all MPs, regardless of which group it comes from, all with one basic and common goal – to reach the highest quality law that is very important in this area. It is important, above all, for Serbian citizens, because they will be able to find out how the state's funds are spent for political parties, how the political party participates in the procurement and distribution of funds. It will also be important for independent bodies, because this law allows them to exercise effective control over the implementation of this law. This law will also have meaning for political parties, as, simply put, recently with Serbian citizens, the opinion is that political parties are the source of corruption. It is very important that, just by establishing clear rules, by establishing equal conditions and, above all, by denying it to the public. So political parties have the opportunity to give away such thinking to Serbian citizens. It is also important for Serbia, because by adopting the Assembly, it fulfils its obligation to Serbia above all, and then, according to the EU, to create conditions and to take another major step towards gaining candidate status. We consider it a very important law and therefore we think that we should take good advantage of the opportunity. There is also time, there is also need to agree on many more details, to make it fully acceptable, to be clear, to be enforceable. In one sentence, I would say about this law what its goal is, what its wish is – to create a legal framework that enables political entities, I use the term "political entities" because it is one change in this law, so far it has been the Law on the financing of political parties, now it is the Law on the financing of political activities of political entities, in which we count, in addition to parties, and coalitions and groups of citizens, therefore, all those who participate in elections or have activities between elections, therefore, it creates the possibility that parties, or political entities obtain funds, but by clear rules, on equal terms. Simply put, they're getting the chance to do it. They are limited by the illicit political beating of all those who can do it. What needs to be pointed out in particular is, I point out, firstly, transparency, i.e. the public sees all the means spent by political parties and effective control. That would be, like, the essence of this law. In doing so, I think, considering all the issues important, that the most important thing is transparency or the public in the work. It's simply the best way for citizens, the public to see, judge and judge how it is done, and there is no better judge than the public. I'm going to stick to a few questions that I think are important, but I also need to take a closer look at them. First, when it comes to elections and funding, that part is quite similar to the previous law, but there is still a lot of precision about it. I repeat, political entities can be financed from public and private sources. I'll talk about public sources later, and I'd only stick with the privates for two questions. One is membership, the other is contributions. The membership fee is not limited, by this law. The possibility has been left for parties, political entities, their statutes, or their acts to regulate its height. Therefore, there are no restrictions, but there are restrictions on how to collect. So the payment must be made from the current account at the expense of the political party, unless it is at an annual level less than a thousand dinars. In that case, it is possible to collect in cash or through a payment. We think it's well-regulated. It seems to me that in this part of this article, we must also give the obligation of a political entity to pay the sum of funds to a jury account in accordance with the Law on Payments or, already, within a period of seven days, etc. When it comes to the contribution, it is defined also by the contribution that gives the legal person and the way he does it, as well as for the natural person and the way he does it, therefore, there are no restrictions in contributions to political entities, but there are restrictions on whoever gives it, so that the natural person can give up to 20 average earnings over the year, and the legal person up to 200. What else is there, too, characteristic? Unlike previous laws where there were restrictions in that part, there is no limit to how much funds they will receive, but there is a limit to who gives and not just in the maximum amount, but to meeting other criteria, which is stated here; who, how and how can they do it. Here is the obligation to do so from the current account and it is an obligation to record it. And what's most important is the obligation that if it's over one average profit to be made public. I think that these issues should be highlighted, because they are significant and different from the previous law. Of course, there were words about a ban on funding, as it was specified here, unauthorized fundraising, that's something that was in the previous law. I would especially like to point out this part that speaks of unauthorized fundraising. Unlike the previous law, which also did not allow pressure, privilege, etc., here I warn of the last position: ''It is forbidden to conceal the identity of the contributor or the amount of contributions. '"Why am I warning you to pay attention to that attitude? Because that attitude is sanctioned as a felony. It's something that's new, very important in this law, to be introduced as a criminal offence, to be punished by a prison for an act that's "applied", to say the point, which means that whoever intends to conceal the identity and the amount of funds is subject to criminal responsibility. I would like to take a brief look at the funds from public sources, which I mentioned earlier, for regular action and for elections. We have a few suggestions and suggestions here to make it clear to the end that there will be no dilemma. We have already heard that 0.15% of the Republic's budget, an autonomous province, or local self-government for the regular work of political entities, so no more political parties than political entities. It is political subjects who participate in the distribution. If there are several political entities, they previously agree on the way it is distributed. What do I want to point to? The way the funds were distributed is different than it was in the previous law. The previous law knew the system that 30% received all parties in equal amount and 70% according to the number of mandates. Here you go to the variant that the funds are distributed in proportion to the number of votes. However, one, in our opinion, is a good correction so that the political entity, which wins up to 5% of the votes in force, is multiplied by 1.5, all, and beyond that by 1. It's, in a way, made some balance and incentives for smaller parties. What can cause confusion here, please take a good look, which is a matter of 5% of the votes in force. Whose valid votes? It can be all the voters who voted, it can be political entities, it can be all the voters who voted only for those in parliament, etc. Considering that this is an important issue, we have given an amendment to this, given that the proponent meant 5% of the voters who voted in the elections. That's why we asked about that clarification. When it comes to funding the campaign's costs, it is already said here, 20% of the funds are distributed before the elections, all of them evenly participating, and 80% after the elections, according to the number of mandates won. I ask you once again to pay good attention to that part before the election. This solution, which involves 20% of the funds to all participants, is not evenly disputed, but what can be disputed? It can be a controversial electoral guarantee which, as a wish, proposes to eliminate any abuse that anyone participating in the elections must have at least 1% support in order to use funds, not to turn it into a problem, because it says here – when handing over the candidacy, the guarantee is submitted. When he teaches his candidacy, he doesn't know how many of them he participates. So you can know that after the designated list. At that time, a guarantee can also be delivered or, perhaps, another way, but the point is that the electoral guarantee should be and is not disputed, the solution must be clear and meet the goal we wanted by this law, while at the same time not to interfere with the participants in the process that they cannot properly achieve it, therefore, a solution that will be much simpler and clearer to resolve this issue. I think there are amendments to that as well, you should take a good look at them and accept what's clearer. One more thing, it can appear as a question, he says – if he intends to use funds for the election campaign. What if a political entity doesn't just use 20% of the funds? If he wins the mandates, why don't you use the 80%? So there's still a lot of questions. Please, I urge you to take a good look at them, all with the aim of the electoral guarantee being, but to be precisely defined, because what should actually be a guarantee that one who does not win 1% of the votes will return the funds he has received, here it is said within the time limit, although I do see why there is no deadline here and when you are obliged to return the guarantee if he has passed it? I think that should also be defined in this part. Therefore, not to be obliged, given that further powers of those who need to exercise control have been stated in this procedure, and what was the problem in the previous law, clearly prescribed procedures as they are done, and it is made clear in time that the following sanctions have not been followed. I remind you again of the sanctions provided for by whoever gives, as well as the one who obtains the opposite of the provisions of the law, and wants to hide the identity and the amount, the sentence of prison. Once again, I ask you to pay attention to all these provisions, of course, in order to pass a law which will clearly lay down the rules, to clearly establish powers, control, supervision, etc., and give an opportunity, and I will end up with what I started with, political parties to change one image in Serbia about them. In Serbia lately, political parties have been on a very large scale, minors, as if they were the most harmful. Political parties are the subject of a political system in Serbia, a constitutional category that is authorized to influence public opinion and its policy. It should do itself enough that it does not come to the situation to be subject to the public just as something ugly, something that is evil, but rather something that, in the best way, with clear rules, forms public opinion in Serbia. I repeat, the SPS-JS Group will support this law, but it continues to demand that all these issues be clarified, all with the aim of coming to the highest quality law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55754	Thank you. I give my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not dispute that the promoters want to organise an area that is difficult to arrange in the world, not only in Serbia. But I'm arguing there's been a newspaper. I argue that this law, except for certain provisions, is better than the previous one or that it will allow the financing of political activities to be fully available to the public and fully under control, and that all the money that political entities spend is the money they have made, exclusively, recording public revenues or income from their own sources. If the law had the desire to regulate the financing of all political activities and in Article 2, it stated what it implies under the term 'political activity', I'm interested in why the entire area is not regulated here, the area of election of the President of the Republic? Why don't we know how much money will be allocated in the campaign? What are the rights and obligations of the list promoter? Are there guarantees for candidates who do not win a certain number of votes? So I'd like to know why it was taken away from us, since the SNS is counting on it to win the election for the President of the Republic, in elections for the National Assembly? And we want to know under what conditions are we going to compete in these elections, a team before the legislators prescribed before the new era that from the time of the election to the holding elections, elections do not change, and modern democracy has extended it to the election year? We are already entering a regular election year, and I think we are entering the election year for the President of the Republic, because they will certainly be held before the deadline. I cannot believe that the President of the Republic, whose party will be disastrously defeated in the elections, would remain in office. I will try briefly to refer to many members of this law because they are all almost undefined and will be subject to interpretation. For example, in Article 6 of the Service Group and the public sources goods, the following is provided in point 2: ''Services and goods of heading 1 of this article shall be given under the same conditions to all political entities. ''I have to ask you – will the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and local self-government units have enough services and public income goods for all political entities? If we have introduced the inequality of political entities, so in further provisions you have suggested that the guarantee be laid down and that the one who does not win 1% of the vote loses the right to the guaranteed, or the guarantee returns the money, the 20% that are given in advance, where do you now equalise in regular activities all political entities, including those who have not crossed that 1% of the votes? If the guarantee is defined as a limit to the seriousness of the political party and if you said that a political party that does not win 1% of the vote is not serious, how do you now order the state, the autonomous province and the units of local self-government to respect it as well as that party that won 40% of the vote, to provide it with material services and material goods from public sources just as if they deserved it? If they don't deserve it, according to this bill, they don't deserve it in any area. In terms of membership fee, you prescribe that up to 1,000 dinars are paid in cash or via payment, and over 1,000 dinars from the current account. What's the difference? If you want to control your fees, well, we'll book those tickets. Why does he have to leave the current account? Why can't he pay that money in the bank, in the mail or on any other counter? Why didn't you write for over 1,000 dinar payments that they had to be out of the current account to be provided only by those who were in the Functions Register on the basis of Article 43? The Anti-Corruption Agency Act? Then I'd understand that. The agency monitors the financing, the life of certain persons under the law. Where does she get the right to interfere in the lives of other citizens and make rules for them under the Agency Act, past the Functions Register? A citizen who wants to pay 2,000 dinars doesn't have to have a current account. It just has to be recorded, it just has to be booked, it just has to be available to control, and you can't get it to open a current account to pay its political party 1.001 dinar. Then why are there paying services that are also under control? You've also foreseen legal contributions. Where did you find this in parallel practice? In which country in the world do legal persons finance political organisations, political entities, campaigns? You can have a physical face, my individual who's being tied up by a legal person. He founded it, he's the chairman of the board of directors, he's got the most action in the company. But how can a legal person fund a political party?- I'm sorry. You can't, that's the point – you want to fight corruption?- I'm sorry. Why would a legal person fund a political party? Why?- I'm sorry. Because you did not provide for all the contracts that the legal person has with the state, local self-government or autonomous province, as contracts whose contractor can no longer finance political parties. All legal entities have some relationship with the state. All are forbidden from funding political parties. Someone sold the computers, it's not an interest at all, it can't finance the party. The Inter-Poper works 90% of Serbia's construction. He can't fund the Inter-Poper because he's got it all through the DS! Let that boss come, so he can finance, not hide behind the company now. They're workers, they're employees, they're funded, right, funded? Or, say, when a man doesn't go to work ever, they pay him wages and he still gets six months of severance in the local self-government where he worked. (I'd ask the groom not to strangle me, a little. Aw, I'm scared. ) Loaning of immovable property. I understand that the political party is building property and that it's being leased, but you have political parties that have inherited some property. You have millions of Serbian citizens who are not given the property that has been taken from them, and not only give political parties that property that is not theirs, but you give them the right to rent it, rent it, issue it, on the basis of obtaining certain revenues. Now to focus on what's most difficult for party presidents, which you don't care about too much, it's funding and regular work and funding election campaigns. It's easy for all of you to laugh and throw and you don't care, gentlemen, and MPs and party members, you need to cry, you need mittins, you need everything and you don't care that the party's president goes to jail, if he finds himself engaged in illicit activities. Now there's a president who can't go to jail, has a president who can. Now I'm telling you as president who is aware of the risk that any other government put him in jail for funding a political party and who is aware that he will never send anyone to prison for funding a political party. What did you do here? Distribution of funds from public sources, you have well charged to the citizens of Serbia, 0.15% of the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Where did you get the idea that political parties would be financed from the expenditures of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you say – from income? Do you know about covering the expenditure, how much Serbia owes? Well, let the citizens of Serbia know that Serbia is in debt to finance political parties. Are you waiting for Serbia to be in charge to get more money to fund the political party? Why didn't you accept it from the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, at least 0.075 per cent, and not 0.5 per cent, as we once suggested? Why did you accept? Here, simple calculations. For this year, 2011, under the existing law, 577,609.000 dinars will be allocated. Under the new law, you would single out 1,270,000,000 dinars. And if you accept our amendment, 544,800,000 dinars would be allocated for this year, even less than under the existing law. Well, it's not, I guess, that you're passing this law to increase the revenues of political parties. If you want to increase political party revenues, say publicly and openly: ''We want to secure bigger revenues for the parties! '" Then I could understand that. Paragraph 1 of Article 17 says, as if nothing had happened to the Law on the selection of MPs – "The funds for the financing of political parties are distributed to political entities that have won seats in the presidential bodies in proportion to the number of votes. 'Well, what did we say about the freedom of the MP? The MP is free to decide for himself what to do with his mandate, and the money to stay where he won his term. So, how is the MP financed? It may happen, soon, that a large parliamentary group will remain on several MPs, those who are heard loudest, and receive funds for the votes won three years ago. Do you think that's okay? I don't think it's right for the law to be funded. Five today, tomorrow 15, the day after tomorrow 100. Today 100, the day after tomorrow, five, but it's the only way to stop someone from acting unfounded here like he's strong. So how much you're worth - as much as you have an MP, not as much as you won with Tomislav Nikolic, but as much as you have, that's it. You can have more, you can have more, you can have more, you can have more, you can have more, you can have more, you can have more, you can have So, now what is this discrimination against political parties that are not party minorities, even parties that are political entities that win few votes? I have to ask you. So the funds will no longer be allocated according to the number of mandates won, but according to the number of votes won, by the fact that the parties of the national minority will multiply by 1.5 of their winning votes in order to get the money, not to get the mandates, you don't care how equal you are in the mandate, but you need the money. That's why you boxed with this majority to give you 1.5. But let's move on. Why didn't you work on Dont's principle, the number of votes won by those who didn't get into this distribution? What about parties that don't win 5% of the vote? Are their voices distributed to others, so who is the strongest to get the most out of it? No, you fought for yourself, for your pockets, you don't care about a national minority party or a majority party, besides, you see for yourself that one of your votes is worth 1.5 and one of ours is – 1.0. It's not right! We need to be even. We have to be completely even! It will provide you with state money for activities financed by culture, tradition, anything else, but for the political activity of individual MPs, to give you more than another MP, so that is not in accordance with the Constitution. Why don't you think about what's going on here? Let's move on to funding election campaign costs. You know what problems political parties have when they participate in the elections. First of all, you can't predict how much money the state will give you for the elections, because it depends on the number of mandates won or now on you – the number of votes won, by reducing it to 1.5 for some political parties. And 20% are divided into participants who have designated lists, and you have to figure out how much that's going to be and how much you're in debt. You get that money two months after the election. Tell me, what news house, a television house, which advertiser, which firm will set up billboards, which printery with you will contract a job and wait for you two months to pay her jobs at the election campaign, or what terms will you get on TV, what news pages will you get if you haven't paid in advance, and your political rival paid everything in advance?- I'm sorry. Next, the electoral guarantee. Who thought of this? What have you, gentlemen, not fought against this electoral guarantee from the parties of the national minorities? The election guarantee is against small political parties. Only they're not party national minorities, otherwise they're small, small political entities. Now that they're not minority parties, it's making them have money. Who can apply for an election list in local self-government, the province, the Republic? The one with the money. As the university can enroll one who has money, so we have come to a political organisation, and how it will be organised you do not know at all, because it says – that you are handing over confirmation of the electoral guarantee to the Ministry of Finance Affairs, that is, to the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, and local self-government. Who gives you that confirmation? The Republic Election Commission, as it should declare the list. RIK will assess your guarantee? You go to the bank and you say - I have a house and that house will be my guarantee. And do all of this after the election has been called, and you know how to make the order of the list – by handing over the complete documentation. Therefore, all political parties, apart from the government's parties, have always been G17 plus, since he had the tax administration so he knew the name of every citizen in Serbia and collected signatures in the tax administration, but all political parties, other than the Democratic Party, will have trouble getting a designated electoral list, the Democrats will already be the first on the list on the second, third day. And you know it very well. Guarantee? What kind of guarantee does anyone want to compete? To invest the house, to leave the kids on the street because the man didn't win the estimated number of votes. Well, what if he didn't win?- I'm sorry. In this country, everyone has the right to run. Under the Constitution, candidateing is not defined by its material capacity and financial capacity, it is an unimpaired, basic right to choose and be chosen. Now he can't even choose to be elected because if he doesn't have a list he won't go to the polls, and you don't declare the list because he didn't win enough votes and he didn't give you bail. Do we have in the Law on selecting Members of the People that the conditions for declaring the list are electoral guarantees? There isn't. There is only in this law, the Law on the financing of political activities. And what's going on now is the introduction of a Anti-Corruption Agency, which, for example, would now have seven million dinars in the election. For what? Be careful what, for this authority of the Agency which directly affects the course of the election campaign, for Article 32. According to that member, the Agency can enter the premises of a political party running for elections and remain there for the entire election campaign, and that we are all obliged to provide the Agency with the information it requests, some even within three days. And that is why the government will travel across Serbia, convince that it is the best in the world, that it has done much for the citizens of Serbia, and the opposition will convince the Agency that it is not corrupt and is not criminalised. And that will be equal conditions for the elections, with all the media balance you're making these days, with the attacks of everyone almost in this room on the only one who can defeat the Democratic Party. (President: Time. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Agency has a law by which it works, it can't be said here... (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm really... (President: No, finish your sentence. )......................................................................................................... Here, just one more sentence. In Article 32(5), it states: ''As regards the obligation to supply the data set out in paragraph 4 of this Article, the prohibitions and restrictions laid down in other regulations shall not apply. ''So, this law fully derivates all other laws, the Agency can do whatever it wants which is not prescribed by law. I'm sorry for over-time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55756	Ms. Elvira Kovac's National MP, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55757	Thank you, Honorable President, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 76. The constitution guarantees that they are not considered special measures, i.e. discrimination on those measures that allow equality, but I would only like to respond briefly, because it seems like we are not reading the same bill, because this proposal states Article 17(2): "The number of votes taken as the basis for the distribution of funds is calculated by the number of votes up to 5% of the valid votes being multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5, and the number of votes over 5% of the valid votes is multiplied by a coefficient of 1.'" So, everyone's, not just the number of votes won by the parties of national minorities, and I want to explain this to the public that they don't think our votes are being calculated differently. Everyone's votes up to 5% are multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5, and over 5% are multiplied by a coefficient of 1 and this helps everyone, not just the parties of national minorities. On the other hand, I would like to stress that we have been working on this law for weeks, months and that all parliamentary parties have been invited to participate in the "wide" Working Group. Very few came regularly and the problem of certain parliamentary parties is that they did not participate, did not work on it. We even sent a letter to GREC, where we asked that the parties of the national minorities were positively discriminated against even after the meeting in GREC, because until then no one had a concrete solution, there was this solution that was not discriminatory to anyone else and you can't say that we are taking money, therefore, for us, thereby damaging someone else. So, for the sake of the public, I would like to emphasise this and you should read a better Article 17, paragraph 2, of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55758	Tomislav Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55759	I read all this great, I didn't just point it out to the National Assembly, I think you've all figured it out, in order to get a seat, you have to win 5% of the votes, and in order to get money to fund a political party, you can win less than 5% of the votes. That's the problem I see. So the party, which wins 2% of the vote, which does not enter parliament, practically wins 3% of the vote and is funded by 3% of the budget. Not only the minority party, but also political entities. You boxed that up for yourself. Let me read you the provision of the Constitution to which you are bound. Article 76 says, "Members of the national minorities are guaranteed equality against the law and equal legal protection. Any discrimination against the nationality of the national minority is prohibited. They are not considered discrimination against the specific regulations and temporary measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce in economic, social, cultural and political life, in order to achieve full equality between members of the national minority and citizens who belong to the majority, if they are aimed at removing the particularly unfavourable conditions of life that affect them in particular. 'I'm sorry, what's gotten into you so far? What do we do by multiplying your number by 1.5? Where was this inequality of minorities compared to members of Serbian nationality? What kind of inequality is removed from this? That's what I'm interested in. What has particularly affected you, Mrs Fecket, when there is no city in the world where you did not go as a representative of this congregation and you performed remarkablely everywhere, mainly defending your interests and your groups, I think that's okay. But I am interested, gentlemen of the promoters, which is an unfavourable condition of life that particularly affects members of national minorities, removed by multiplying the votes of members of national minorities by 1.5, do not forget the censorship has already been reduced. The centre for entry into parliament has been reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55760	Time. MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55761	I don't want to go into the discussion, just to point out again, it's not just our voices multiplying by 1.5 but everyone's voices. It says that the number of votes below 5%, each number of votes, is multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5, and the number of votes above 5% is just a coefficient of 1, i.e. the number of votes left. It's a solution that's acceptable to everyone. Please take a look, so that's not our number of votes. On the other hand, at the beginning of the address, you said 5% of the vote must be reached, the censorship is reduced, i.e. for the parties of national minorities there is a natural clue because all citizens of this country are equal, both members of Hungary and Bosniak, Albanian etc. national communities have the right to be represented by authentic representatives, i.e. political parties of national minorities, some may vote for other parties, but those who vote for those parties have the right to have their representatives here who really advocate their interests. I am part of a parliamentary group of minority deputy members in one of our delegations and there I work as a representative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a party to which I belong and a parliamentary group of minorities, where in the Council of Europe I advocate the rights of minorities, first of all, for the rights of national minorities. Everyone has their own political programme and this political programme is trying to realise, to fight for these citizens and for those people who voted for that party and to try to represent them in the best possible way. I really don't want to go into the discussion, but, please, I'd like you to get to know the legal proposal first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55762	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55763	I'm just going to remove this planting you've done. I don't mind representatives of national minorities being represented in the Assembly and the censorship being reduced for you, but it has nothing to do with money. I'm against it, when it comes to money, your vote is worth 1.5. This does not eliminate any adverse situation for members of national minorities. Only your political parties get more money, if you want me to tell you the truth. Why would a political party get more money? I don't know. And don't tell me about the authentic representatives, we are all authentic representatives and members of the Hungarian people who are in other political parties, authentic representatives of their people. Surely they are not representatives of another people, that they are not in your party do not place a stamp on them, do not separate them from the population they belong to. I'm telling you on behalf of those who belong to the Serbian Progressive Party, and I guess others will tell you the same thing. So for me, it's a good Hungarian and Elvira Kovac and Otto Kishmarton, it doesn't seem to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55764	National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word. I wanted to let you know that we'll be working after 6:00 today, until the end of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55765	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft of this law arrived on April 28th this year in the assembly procedure, by emergency procedure, and served for a full 40 days. During that period, MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, had the opportunity to get acquainted with the provisions contained in the bill. However, the president of the parliamentary group, the ruling coalition, ZES, said it would be adopted during a regular session, apparently not adopted before June 1st. Today, we have a bill of law, the attitudes we've heard so far, that should remove some ambiguities and some irregularities. That's why the DSS rightly doubted it would be done. On 12 May in Parliament, we had a public hearing on which this law was discussed. I'm glad the Prime Minister was present on that occasion. To remind citizens of Serbia, he is also the country's finance minister. At that time, Mrs Malovic, Minister of Justice, was present, and I can assume the reasons why she is not here today. We have introduced obviously an interesting practice that the beginning of the session is delayed until a representative of the government shows up, and when they carry out their discussion of ten, twelve minutes and read the reasoning of the law, which he obviously didn't write, then he finds it uncomfortable and leaves this room, so that we continue to discuss without the representatives of the motionor, or representatives of the Government. Mr. Cvetkovic, I remind you once again, the Prime Minister, but also the finance minister, said in public hearing that this law is fundamentally prepared, that he is in line with solutions from the laws of the state-developed democracies, that this law will prevent the influence of some informal groups on political parties and that an expert opinion of the Venice Commission has been drawn up, as the highest authority in this area. In public, the law is presented as a set of standards to introduce order on Serbia's political scene, a step in regulating money flows in politics and a significant and strong anti-corruption measure. Then we ask ourselves, what state do we live in when the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime will be responsible for the application of certain members, is there political life in Serbia, or political parties that have been doing some work for decades? At the mentioned public hearing by Mrs. Zorana Markovic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who is otherwise the president of the Working Group for the construction of this law, she made it clear that certain provisions in the Bill's proposal represent a matter of political compromise, rather than a proposal from the Working Group. It has been shown in practice that the applicable law, which Mr Djelic proposed in 2003, and only to say that we had no regulations before that, so at that point it was probably some sort of solution, did not give the expected results, was not possible to fully enforce the provisions of this law and, above all, the control mechanism which was placed in the responsibilities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just remind ourselves of what the reports of individual political parties looked like, among those who said they had no donors, and some political parties said they were financed, or contributed exclusively by individuals, and some other parties said in their reports that they were financed exclusively by companies and no single party. We've been listening to explanations that people are afraid of having the possibility of having unpleasantness, certain repressive measures, persecution, so they don't want to appear in official documents or on political parties' sites as donors. Do we live in some democratic darkness? As I heard the other day a statement from the president of the National Assembly, is our society finally matured to pass such a law? Well, we're not bananas, maybe we live in a 'banana republic', unfortunately, that's what you turned the Republic of Serbia into. We are now mature to see how they move and how the money flows are in political parties. The result of all this, i.e. the weak application of the applicable law, is the proposal for this law, which explains that there is no relevant EU regulation to ensure the compliance of this law, which means that the proponent had all the freedom to regulate this matter in the best possible way, but it is obvious that it was more important to fence the comments of the Venice Commission, which, according to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, appears to be the most significant source of law in this country. In the law itself, there is a 'election campaign' in the meaning of the terms, and it says, 'The election campaign is a set of political entities' activities from the day of the election to the day of the final election results', and it is not disputed. What's this before the election campaign? Whether it's called a pre-election campaign or a campaign itself, when every day we have the opportunity to implement it in both printed and electronic media throughout the Republic of Serbia. Article 7 says: "The private source of funding for political activity consists of membership, contribution, inheritance, legislation, income from property and debt to banks and other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia. '"Does this listing mean, Mr. Cossic, let me ask you, I know you don't have the full opportunity to answer, but perhaps one of the ministers who will appear here today, or when we discuss in particular, will be able to answer us, that everything else is forbidden? Therefore, only what is taxed are the only options. In Article 8, he says, "A member of the political party is required to make payments to the membership fee exclusively from his current account. '"What law in this country imposes an obligation on a natural person to have an open current account. I haven't read that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Then, Article 9: ''The political party acquires property by buying, inheriting and legate. '"Is this norm supposed to be exactly in this law, or can it be regulated by some other regulation? Not political parties fell from another planet today, but their activities were regulated by some other laws. Article 14: ''A political entity cannot obtain income from promotional, or commercial activity. '"What does that mean? So what are the actions that are forbidden or we will continue to take a wide look at it and thus find the possibility to bypass that scale that we should skip. In Article 16, relating to funds from public sources, unlike the current law so far, it says that the funds provided to finance the regular work of political parties are 0.15% of budget expenditure. Now, if Mr. Cvetkovic were here as finance minister right now, I would be happy to ask him to explain -- is the deficit on the dissipated side, does that mean that if this country is more in debt, that the separations for the functioning and operation of political parties are higher and that the percentage is intended to be in the next period? Article 17, that is the one that regulates these 0.15% budget expenditure and the distribution method enters into force on 1 July 2012, if I am not mistaken. So, that obligation was made to some next government to deal with it. A special bill to fund the election campaign, I don't understand it, if they are implemented at the same time by the Republic, the province and local elections, whether only from one account, that is to say, they are paid into one account and they are paying off those funds, or there will be separate accounts for all these campaigns. As far as the electoral guarantee is concerned, if I don't hold back very much, I think that the whole ujdura that was made is clearly worked out, because it's clear that when I teach the candidacy, the party can't know what amount of funds can count. I just expect, since the prime minister said the law was fundamentally done, that the man who wrote this provision of the law should be removed and that the state administration should be disbursed. As regards control by the DRI, the DSS has proposed that this provision be deleted from the law, because the jurisdiction, functioning and role of the DRI is clearly defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law which regulates its work, and cannot be ordered by the Anti-Corruption Agency to act and control who. If we want independent and independent institutions, then let them do this job the way we predicted by law. Whether this is what you predicted to be called a criminal offence, and I did not see it in the Criminal Code: "Who, in the name and account of the political entity, obtains funds for the financing of a political entity against the provisions of this law in order to conceal the source of funding or the amount of funds collected by a political entity, will be punished by imprisonment" etc. etc. Why is this standing in this bill? The suspension of the transfer of funds from public sources, whether it is possible, after the initiation of criminal proceedings or criminal proceedings, by the competent ministry, by the competent authority of the autonomous province administration and the local self-government unit, to decide on the suspension of the transfer of funds to the political party. You know how justice reform has been implemented in this country, you know how our courts work. So, by starting the procedure yourself, you're howling the tap to a political party and how much it has the possibility of abuse by, above all, the executive authorities. In my view, with a number of shortcomings contained in this bill, perhaps the biggest problem is the abuse of state functions in election campaigns and, of course, state resources in the campaign. What about funding political parties by public enterprises? We don't want to lie that she doesn't exist, she's indirect, she's hidden, from the director of the power distribution setting up the bandits in a certain route, divorcing the low-voltage network, "Telecom" does a telephone power plant, so we know what kind of blackmail the citizens have come across in making roads, waterways, sewers, we've had a chance in the past three years in local elections, across Serbia, to make sure of something like that. So far, what has prevented the Anti-Corruption Agency from responding, to what extent, who is being punished? They didn't have certain instruments, eh, and now this law is going to give them that? But I don't see that they responded to the gaps that were both in Bor, and in Arangelovac, and in other cities. It's one thing when you write an article in the media, then someone reads it and says, yes, yes, something was going on there, but never mind, let's move on. The DSS certainly believes that Serbia needs such a law, a law on financing political activities, and what are these activities when you have left out key segments in a political campaign, first of all, regarding abuse by state officials?- I'm sorry. We believe that the condition of all conditions, that this law could be applied, that certain results would, first of all, be a media regulation in this country. It is really necessary to harmonise the rules governing this matter, primarily in advertising, both in electronic and in print media. We are witnessing that during the election campaign there is a terrible abuse of the media. It is necessary, if we want to change things for the better, that they are all equal, not only declared that in some debates we advocate, but in the matter of the law it is not clearly regulated, either this, or the following four or five laws that should allow this law to be properly implemented. We don't even know which media law regulates the use of state resources and don't tell me that in the next campaign the President of the Republic, ministers, directors of public enterprises, will not drive in black limos, won't share jeans, pressurers, glasses, open roads, cut ribbons, pet red symentals, host special shows, all that will be. It's a fact and we can't get away from it, because there's no law to stop it. The biggest funds in election campaigns are now going to advertise, and then they are astronomical prices. Some media are looking forward to the vote being called so they can set their tariff, because they literally live for the next year or two days on those funds they took from political parties. Which means the provision of Article 23. Bills: ''Every rental of a term in the media shall be subject to regulations and rules governing the conduct of the media in the election campaign. '"That doesn't mean anything. Do all parties have equal treatment? They don't. Who in this country has the right to control seconds on Public Service? I expect an answer from the minister. Who in this country controls 55% of the advertising space in electronic media? What is the electoral silence before the elections for in Serbia? Then they're all the most active, someone plays basketball, someone fishes, someone walks his pet, and of course that's how voters get influenced. What sanctions have already been imposed for a violation and who? No, when it is seen that there is no proper response from the state and the competent institutions, then the right is even more misused and the story is even more widely used by the use of political functions in the campaign itself. The law on broadcasting is unfortunately not applicable, and if I'm wrong, you tell me in which case the sanctions were imposed and who was sanctioned. The RRA Council has brought recommendations for behaviour in the election campaign, they exist, they are all written, but not applied. And does the recommendations say that individual televisions can issue their frequency for a certain period of time to a political party with the most money and thus watch the same people up to two, four, six, eight, ten in the evening on television and who talk about how Serbia is going to have honey and milk. The parties are obliged to make all data available to the public and we fully agree. It should all be clear and open, transparent, that all citizens can see for themselves who is funding political parties, how it works. But let's make the same commitment to all of this and the media, so let's see who's been hosting it, who paid it, how much funds are invested for media campaigns, how much, in a certain time, in seconds, in minutes, in hours, is for every political party. What is devastating, I really think that this law is an expression of mistrust with political parties, that if it is adopted like this, it will not bring the expected results from the proposings, so it will be disappointed both the citizens of Serbia and the political party, but the fact is that the Venice Commission must not be disappointed, it seems, is the most important reason why we adopt such a law. The DSS has submitted a series of amendments to this bill and I hope that there will be understanding by the legislators in the debate in particular that they will be accepted, but in any case, we are sure that this law will not eliminate corruption or the influence of informal groups on political parties, as well as a number of problems we have had. We must change both the system and the society within and that individuals in individual political parties, for which we are all placed in the same basket and accused that all parties are the same, are removed from political life in the way this law provides, through violations and through criminal sanctions. We're not all the same, we're very different, and that's going to show up in the next election. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55766	17 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55767	I think at first you should say exactly what it's about. We are faced with a bill of law to regulate the financing of political parties, but now they are "political entities". What is the characteristic of this proposal and the existing Law? First, both materials worked for DS. In 2003, Djelic, with blonde Aleksandra Drecun, worked with the secretary of the ministry, Homen, with blonde Zorana Markovic. In the first one, Djelic published the book, took the money, but Biserka Zivkovic was the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, so the dispute broke out and later had to be forged by the jurisdiction law. It will be similar with this bill when you adopt it. What is the purpose of this law? To ensure the domination of the DS. That's why the Law was passed in 2003. The principle was – whoever has more MPs should get more from public funds. What are the shortcomings of the existing law? It is inapplicable, because according to the existing law and when you go to a local community to talk to some people, you need to register spent fuel as a contribution to your party. What is the view of the other inapplicability of the existing law? Well, if this law were applied, no one could participate in the local elections, because under this law, say, in the Voždovac municipality, in the additional elections, you could spend a maximum of 100,000 dinars, provided you won 70% of the mandate, and one billboard is 250,000 dinars. At that stage, these yellows are the best to swim; they hang billboards, they run actions, they bring construction machines, they finish jobs, because the law doesn't apply when it comes to them. What should we regulate this law? He must regulate the financing of political parties, but not to compromise the freedom of political association in the second part where election campaigns are to be discussed. We've got galamatias here, everything and everything. We have submitted, I think, about 40 amendments with the intention of distracting us, if we can fix something, because this, as it is written now, will require quite a lot of volunteerism and will require a briefing of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and it won't be difficult for us, given that the head of the agency is Cedomir Cupic, the one from "Resist", you remember, which didn't pass for the MP. There are others who were also in the Resistance, so they didn't last 2003, now they're yellow and now they're controlling, Mrs. Comic, your DS. But that's your problem. I don't want to get in your way. That's what you guys do. What was banned by the 2003 Law, it is now in force, is stimulated by a new bill. For example, when Djelic explained the Law, he said, among other things, political parties cannot take credit, because if they take loans they lose their independence and their independence, they fall into slavery, they become addicts of the rich. Today in the bill, the most important private source is borrowing from banks. You see how flexible European standards are. We were also sworn by Djelic in 2003 that it was a European standard, so he limited private sources and all parties apparently were the same financial forces during the election campaign. Now it's no longer valid, now it's a "drp system" – give what you give, supposedly to be transparent. What black transparency, whoever shows a private financier or donor of a party, immediately captures B92 and drags him out, there – how dare you finance?- I'm sorry. So the only thing left to do is to have the hairdressers finance political parties. Others are forbidden. Only hairdressers can finance, others can't even hold a living head. Of course, smart oligarchs have shown up to fund everything. You had an Arangelian, funded power and opposition, and they don't care who's gonna be in power. And this law on the financing of political ones, as you say, 'entities', i.e. activities, is a logical continuation of the amendment of the Law on the selection of MPs. Gentlemen of the tycoons, you will have the entire National Assembly, you will have everything at your disposal, it is only enough to pay off, to bribe and have control and authority and opposition. In this, tycoons are no different from the EU. The EU is doing the same. Well, you see, all that can be done because the government stimulates crime. Here's an example - March 12th, 2008 the SRS decided not to be in charge of the living head, and on March 21st, "Sojic" went to hide and conclude the contract, committed itself to guarantee – the note of Draginji Djordjevic, Banka "Intez" that it would immediately return after a good result was made. A good result was not returned, but turned the short-term credit into a long-term, blocked the party, and the party found out only when you and Mrs. Djukic made the parliamentary group here. We run the process, our courts are making French maids, and now it's being inserted that there will be funding through banks and it will be a legal form of private sources. So now you're telling me -- who else can trust DS?- I'm sorry. What you said in 2003 doesn't apply in practice. What you're pushing right now, you're promoting, how it's going to work out, what's going to come out of this, but that's why there's no provision in the law that you can transfer funds from a regular account to your own election account. No, you have to go to the bank, get in charge, fall into slavery. Who is today going to fund political parties from the citizens? Well, nobody will! Why won't they? He doesn't want B92 scolding him, with those trained journalists, making insiders, making shows, disabling everything that exists in Serbia! What do you want? You want this political scene to be too cheap, both for those from the EU and for these tycoons and organised crime here. And I'm just surprised that no one has submitted an amendment to that member about the prosecution. Why the organized crime prosecution? Well, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is supposed to be chasing political parties, come on, Vekaric and Vukcevic, come on, they're going after this?- I'm sorry. You need to kill everyone right now, man, you don't need a procedure. What the hell is wrong with you?- I'm sorry. You're the best, you're the smartest, you can do anything! And then we have a full bill of declarations, a story. You haven't, for example, taken the area of humanitarian work by political parties. That's to be banned! Because as long as there is a principle of acceptance that something can be done humanitarianly, there will be artificial fertilizers, blocks, glasses, umbrellas, shoes in Kladovo, etc., and then great humanity from the NGO sector, and they say, whoever has to give, be socially responsible and be socially responsible to their people. So, who's to blame? The government won't work. We've been moving here for two years, the one, Gilas, to see who's selling seconds, how many seconds he's selling. He made the whole monopoly, he, this Krstic, Shaper, I don't even know who else, but it's all yours, that gang. You can't buy a second or go at their prices. You put on commercials for private television, because you put on commercials and you have some shows. Of course, it's all neatly invoiced, and when the elections are over, we'll see if it's gonna be paid and not paid as a rule. And you're talking about equality, equal terms, etc. Is there a fairer form of distribution of funds from public sources than the number of mandates won? It doesn't exist. The law makes it clear that the political party is receiving the funds according to the winning mandates. What's going on in Rakovica? In Rakovica, Bojan Milic, the president of the municipality, in a coalition with those there, pays by the number of seats to a party that has not participated in the elections. And that says everything in the Treasury Office, recorded. When you call on the phone a budget inspection and you say - please, fix it so we don't sue, once we've sued, we get it, the principle is a political party, no, shut up, slowly, calmly, fine, you've got media domination, it's gonna devil-devil... Let Borka go to the party, the chalice, the job ends, the dust rises, etc., "Pull-Pike, not valid." It's all right. Now, in such conditions you're talking about political parties, you're talking about funding political parties, and then you're inserting a provision and you're going to force the PUPS, where only pensioners are, to separate 5% from youth education. Well, what could be their youth?- I'm sorry. The youngest man is 65 years old. What does paper bear when the laws are written by people who have never participated in the elections, absolutely, ever seen an election campaign?- I'm sorry. The allocation of funds, he says, within five days of the election list being announced. Well, how? I guess there's that collection list, huh? Well, who wrote these laws? The same problem was in 2003. Then in the front row of their work where the DSS was sitting, Srdjan Popovic sat down and saw that something was wrong, he pulled that Drecunka out to explain to her that she did not put this nonsense into the law, and he begged and begged. No, by force, as it now forcefully pushes, and you know that some solutions are absolutely unsustainable. Let's not talk about funding from abroad. The political party cannot win from abroad, either by the state or by international organisations. He can't! Why? Political parties as political entities, constitutional categories of the political system of the Republic of Serbia, are handled by sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence and respect for the Constitution and must ensure financial independence. In that sense, there must be no influence from abroad, as if there were some difference between the United States, USAID, or their IRI institute. Well, it's the same kitchen. Can you imagine a political party can't deal with publishing activity? So, who's gonna write us papers, flyers, books? Who? Free homen? Do we have to let him write to make it legal? What are you talking about? The proceeds from promotional activities – well, what's wrong with selling beach, DVD, from some rally? Like there's nothing wrong with bowing to membership. In Seličica, a member of our party must open a current account to pay the membership fee. My people, where do you live?- I'm sorry. Well, it's not Serbia Dorcool, the Belgrade circle of two. Well, I guess Serbia is much bigger than you want it to be. It's a miracle you didn't say payment cards?- I'm sorry. This was written by aliens. Then they get angry with the Agency when they're specifically pointing to things where they wrote everything and everything. Not to mention the kind of dance – there were presidential elections too, so some candidates took credits, so they wrote in the report that the election campaign was financed by a loan, but their credit was not paid to an election account but to a regular account. Everybody shut up, the prosecution can't raise their voice, the court can't take the case. There's some force more significant, bigger. That force, it's simple, and Tadic's pants are shaking. He can't think of anything either, because the symbiosis of TT, "Toma-Tadic", one without the other can't, like a bag and patch have to wave; one will collect for power, the other will reportedly, for opposition, cile-mills and that's all within the same family, and the people will have fun with whether Mrs. Comic stands nicely this red rose. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, but it looks really nice on you. We're having this debate at a very interesting time. There are no government representatives. Imagine, they probably hold a phone session to share the money they earned when they delivered Ratko Mladic, so tomorrow they'll come fatter and fatter. They're very good. They completed their mission, they got applause, they took a little bit of steam. They count if they can cheat in the election now, so they can be pre-accession funds there, somewhere, by 2020, and we should live and survive and survive the DS government. Evil prevailed in Serbia. You see, there's not a single interest group that hasn't rebelled. What about this bill? There's a lot of loose ends on purpose. There are many members who are not original, but are inserted to write amendments, and the original ones will come into the light of your amendments. We already know that, we know you're doing that trick. Is this law going to solve these issues, first of all, to make everything clear, if I may say so, that I am not going forward, both on the income and on the dissipating side of political parties? He won't! Is there one zone the law doesn't touch? There, there, there, Mladjan Dinkic. He takes his minister, he starts collecting, allegedly, signatures, commercials, and all about the state's cost of promotion. That's how you'll do it when you're going to hug the symentals in the stables during the election campaign. You have the same thing to do. There's no problem, you hug the symentals, I don't mind, it's important that people know that, to make it clear to people. Next, did we catch the part about the board of directors? We didn't! Here, "Belgrade Airport." It is known which party has taken over, the cooperative employs its employees, the cost is known. Call your Kiric from DS, he's in the post office. Let him make only a list of MPs who received a gift card in money and you will see which party finances its MPs. And that's why you're very independent and unique. You like all the laws when they come from Mirko Cvetkovic, there is not a shred of different thinking, and you have fought for independence as MPs. Tell that to someone else. It's already read a song in Serbia, it's already clear to everyone. This law doesn't solve these things, because it doesn't want to solve them. This law has several very open spaces, not holes, spaces, where there is an expression of a potential possibility that through Zorana Markovic, there is also other pressure on parties that do not correspond to those in power. I don't mean the parties that are in power, but the real authorities in this country. Well, there's Gilas, so there's Beko, so there's Miskovic, there's someone else! And don't always accuse political parties! And when you say "Beko funded that party," it's a little true of what you said, but that he financed an individual at the head or apparently the party's head, or someone in the leadership, be sure about that. When does that money show up? They show up later, but that money is dangerous, because you took the money, you didn't keep your promise. It's already a field for Miljko Vladisavljevic, and we all know it exists. Some even boast, so you know who's funding who's fuel, so you know who's funding this, so whoever's funding it, you know who's making the house, who's building material. It's all known and the citizens know it, and you think it can be blasphemed. You're climbing again, Boris, stay still! Be still, Boris! You see, Mrs. Comic, you were in the Assembly in 2003, in that building there it was. Then it was said by the SRS that the problems would be. You didn't believe it, and then in 2004, in 2005, you kept your mouth shut because the SRS achieved a good result and had a considerable amount of funds based on public sources. You've suffered, suffered, suffered these things, and now you've entered another story, where you're supposed to take care of political parties, but not those that are pro-European. And, you see, the number of pro-European parties has increased because of pre-accession, potential, funds. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55768	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (Yes) National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55769	Dear fellow Members of the People, the honourable citizens who watch this transmission. On behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I will speak briefly, and in the beginning I will say that New Serbia has no objection to the adoption of such a law on the basis of which citizens and all interested could see the way political parties are financed. For the citizens to know, those who watch this transmission, what form of the bill is, as it is printed, members go, then explanations, so the legal sanctions for disobeying this law, so there goes the reasoning, well, I'll go from that argument. Under the Roman V, at the end of this bill – Reasons for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, he says: "The law is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure for meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which have been taken over in the accession process to the European Union. “ What is contentious here? At first glance, nothing should be disputed, but when we think about it a little bit, it turns out that the government has proposed this law to us, by who knows which time we find out about many legislative proposals, because it is a condition for joining the EU, or for obtaining candidacy and possibly starting date of negotiations. And we in New Serbia, respecting that position, think this law should have been passed long ago, as the parties are financed from the budget, some more, some less, depending on the results of the elections. Also, we believe that we are obliged to the people, to the citizens, many of whom are very hard to live, but most of them regularly settle their tax obligations, so they pour their sweat and effort into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which political parties are financed. Therefore, this law should have been passed long ago. I believe that this is just one of the laws that will be passed, which, time will show, in the most recent time, have to be reformed, so to speak, since everything in this country is reformed, and that the way parties are financed is even more transparent and visible to everyone. What I can say, not only in a personal name, will never happen, and I know it's utopia, it might have happened in the first multi-party democratic elections, we know how democratic they were, that all parties start with equal money in the pre-election campaign. What does that mean? This means that the results of these elections would talk about the quality of the programme and the people the parties offered, not the money. Why am I saying this? This law will never be regulated, we all here and we keep it quiet, and someone mentioned it, we all know a simple fact that neither Venice nor the European Commission may know or can't believe that it exists, otherwise we would probably put it in this law, there are people from ruling parties who are in very responsible and most important functions, who have the intentions, as far as I can see, to be in even bigger functions, and, say, public service have 55% of the commercial space purchased, it seems to me, by 2014, don't hold me by the word – which law on financing political activities, not to say the parties, regulate it? How much does that cost? That's one. Under two, the editorial policy of some media is such that it looks like the prescribed programme of some political parties? How can that be regulated? I am not saying this because of the interests of New Serbia, or any party, but because of the interests of the citizens. If this happens for days, and if for three or four years on some televisions with national frequencies we have a practical promotion of the ruling parties' programmes, then this means that the election campaign has been going on for three years. The law, when it comes to an election campaign, regulates those months for up to or up to two or three months, the time for which parties are required to regulate their actions that must be carried out before the elections are scheduled and after the election is scheduled. Who's gonna sanction that? Who's going to explain that to the citizens? The people are damaged here. Because if your billboards, those TV programs, and all those shows, didn't affect the definition of citizens, then the parties wouldn't do it. Let me give you a specific example. Two or three years ago, I was able to get some paperwork here that weighs a few pounds. One journalist, I don't want to mention him because he's a young boy, he's just got to make progress, he's been telling me like this a few months ago, and I'm asking everyone to listen really well because this is very important, it's the core of the problem that needs to be solved by this law – Mr. Markicevic, he sent me to you because you only have these papers. Imagine now how important and important I am, of course, the MPs are important, have greater powers and opportunities than ordinary citizens, and with regard to the business of some people from Telecom. Of course, Mr. Radyuko was very kind and sent me all that paperwork, if for nothing else, at least because he wasn't the director. What happened after that? The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, whose legal successor is the Anti-Corruption Agency, has initiated proceedings against some people, and one of them is the adviser to the President of the Republic. I wanted to tell you, too, Mr. Minister, because I said that to both the police minister and the Prime Minister, in a live program, that I was told by people at the top of this country's service – Markicevic, while you have the courage and the strength to talk about it, don't be afraid, nothing will happen to you, put those papers away in a few places, so I put it away in a few places. And this journalist came to me and said -- we're making reactions on one television, with a national frequency, as the parties finance themselves. These papers were very important, because they were dozens and hundreds of millions of euros, believe it or not, Mr. Markovic. You can see at the Agency for Business Registers that some companies have increased income, and are involved in marketing, one of the main people is also a member of your party's presidency, from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, said that he is not a functioner, but that he is only a member of your party's presidency, looking at the strict law and that is correct. I didn't imply anything to anyone, that someone was doing anything criminal, anything dishonest, but I just asked, given that in Serbia the vast majority, 90% of media houses, and especially local and regional television and voiced, that people didn't receive five, six months' salary, just wanted to know how those marketing houses managed to increase their income by 22,000%, with five, six employees? In my opinion, there was something wrong. I received it neatly, and as a national MP, I carried out my duty and obligation, Mr Markovic, but some state authorities did not. The least I expected was that someone would call me and ask me – hey, man, what are you talking about? The problem is that all these papers that I have been certified by the seals of state authorities, such as the Agency for Business Registers, and it's nice to see that these companies are true, that I don't order them here, and that's where some people are employed and work, have income a few thousand times bigger. No, that fits, Mr. Markovic, with the arrival of this ruling coalition. I'm not saying there's something wrong, I'm just saying how and how it's done. Now, one of these people has 55% on Public Service. Do you know what public service this is? One whose new board of directors apologized, I welcome, to all citizens of Serbia, for what RTS has done in some recent past and thus has sinned against many citizens and peoples, both in our country and in foreign countries. I'm asking, when is he going to apologize for the fraud that that public service did through those text messages? I would thus encourage them to make an apology for what is happening these days at that public service. So, to return specifically to the subject – which law and does this law regulate that influence? Does anyone reasonable mean that there is no impact, the question is which money can and this law does not treat it, to define someone who has 55% leased advertising space at the Public Service? Watch out for the Public Service! I'm not going to apostrophe any other television that's a stock company or that's privately owned, because of the simple fact that this public service, all of us citizens, are funding through a television subscription. Secondly, I would like to say, Mr Markovic and you, for who knows which time, looking at the mass of laws that we have brought here and to which neither of us in New Serbia have had any major objections, if for nothing else, and because I want to inform you, Mr Markovic, and also the public, with pride, that the New Serbia Group of MPs is the group that has the most accepted amendments in this session in three years, both in absolute and in percentage terms. It says that we have submitted amendments by working professionally and consulting expert people from the party, not to get some two minutes, but to really help make these laws better. In most cases, ministers, and you, Mr Markovic, have accepted some amendments that have improved the text of the law, which is why neither the crown has fallen to you nor to us as an opposition party. In that sense, I would like to remind you that we have asked a parliamentary question here and received an answer from the former finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic. Imagine, we no longer know who to address in the city of Nis, in the congregation? Foreigners named New Serbia and who had as many mandates as she had, simply, were denied the funds. We asked for a temporary measure and the Ministry of Finance's opinion, and nothing. It's not the only one. There's a dispute going on that's never gonna end. So, some people who became a group of citizens after the elections are paid off, and it is some kind of sum that is respectable, at least as far as New Serbia is concerned. I want to repeat, because I said I would speak briefly, that I would not owe it, that New Serbia would not mind adopting any law that would help to shed light on party financing. That may be the easiest thing for us to say, because I am responsible, both in public and in direct transmission, that New Serbia does not have any financials, let someone who has given the "yellow bank" to New Serbia come forward. Maybe it's not to be commended. Maybe people from the top of New Serbia should explain why they were no longer working on marketing, but that's how we defined ourselves. You can give us any objections, but about honesty, about what is said in some media that a party has reported that it has no donation and that it has not taken from anyone, a moral question arises whether it is positive or negative? Or some parties that have reported a few million, and we all know how much the party costs, we know how many employees there are in some parties, I don't want to mention any of them, we all know who are involved in political work, as you do, Mr. Minister; I think your career has been up-and-coming for many years, with various and party and state functions, and we all know how much it costs. Why am I saying all this? Because even after the next election, the citizens will be damaged because their right electoral will, and maybe what I'm saying is utopia, will never be reflected on the days and years of their lives and their children, because of the fractures that are going to happen in this country, and these elections will have to come once, so all parties need to start with the same money. I'm not saying that we've been disgusted by the people, but it's known what we're all offering, starting with New Serbia. Then why does it take 1,500 billboards? Don't you know what the Democratic Party programme is? Don't you know what New Serbia is or what people represent it? Then why is it necessary, when the campaign comes, that on six national televisions with a national frequency, we know exactly in those three minutes who we're going to see when we turn on? So to influence the awareness of the citizens of money and the media. Why not participate in our face, our honesty, and our program? Once that happens, this country will go better and then the citizens won't accuse the parties, sometimes without cover, of being the most corrupt. It is said to be a reflection, usually, of public sector services and political parties, therefore, that they are the most corrupt. I'd love it when you say that, to say it specifically and exactly who it's about. I repeat, until there is a choice where the parties will start with an equal amount of money, but that their strength is measured by the credibility of their programmes, by the people who offer and their biographies, happiness will not be, even if they bring me 10 of these laws, and even if that is the condition of the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55770	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 45 seconds have been used. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Pesic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55771	I'd like to add a few things that I don't think are said here, and it concerns the previous law, how much I've analyzed it, and how public it is, what its basic weaknesses were. It was a control body. Thus, in the previous law, the control of the regular work of party financing and elections and campaigns was given to the Republic Election Commission and the Serbian Assembly Finance Committee. The main problem was that the parties control themselves, because both organs were practically made up of party representatives. I guess that criticism was good. I would like to say that this law will not fully remove the weakness of control, because the Anti-Corruption Agency is not equipped to deal with such a huge deal. First, anyone, as an ordinary citizen, can notice that this agency is hardly heard in public at all. It has great responsibilities to control both financial situations and changes in individual MPs, and other huge tasks, for example, as a conflict of interest. However, we hardly hear anything from that agency. It may occur two or three times a year in certain cases, which means it has not received any public affirmation at all, so that as a strong control body it can take on such tasks as the law gives it. I'm going to say just a few examples that will happen again here, as well as in what the Agency has been controlling so far, which is from this law, for example, Article 37. It is said that if the financial reports are incomplete or do not comply with the regulations, then, the Agency can, by a certain warning, without public participation, remove this, well, if that warning is not worth it, then there could be a misdemeanour procedure. We have already had certain cases for this "whispering on a pillow" between the Agency and individual representatives of government or privileged people. Like the Dulic case. He had 70 contracts with his private company with public companies and only told the public that it was all right, that in that contact it was all cleared up. He, too, had no delegated powers, but again got rid of it outside the public. As you can see, at key moments, the public is shutting down. Why didn't we, and not now, and in the future, report on what that thing wasn't good at, how it was removed, etc., instead of hiding it? She has so far shown that she has a tendency to conceal such things and that the public remains deprived of this "whispering" between her and the individual, the officials, between her and the party, etc. And it can go on and on. Until now, it has not been confirmed that this agency can truly enjoy a reputation and that it can take on such large tasks. The second thing I wanted to say, and that's already said, concerns abuse of government functions in the campaign. There are the latest data on the movement of our employment. It is evident that people in the public sector are more employed, which is indeed a deviation, and employment in the private sector is falling. In the last campaign, people I met and employed in the public sector, mostly in public enterprises, but also in the administration, in local self-government, urban, rural, then those armies were forced to go from house to house and go to campaigns because they were employed. So, you have to do your job, and this employment growth, right in that sector where there shouldn't be employment, we can't control it. It's one huge free army that's going to be working on the next election and that can't be measured in any way. Finally, I don't think there's a law that can predict all the innovations that can be invented in Serbia at all. How one law can invent to control the blackmailing capacity of individual parties that form the ruling coalition. We have an example that now one party in the ruling coalition has turned into an opposition and is pushing its election campaign by collecting signatures, on the basis of its written programme brings here proposals through its 24 MPs and if the Assembly does not accept their laws, we all think that tomorrow the government will fall, because we did not predict such a thing. So now one party that has a blackmailing capacity, which belongs to the ruling coalition, is not enough for two months of an election campaign, but has decided to have a year and a half of an election campaign and to do it for free. Even things like this that could not happen in any normal society, they happen in our society. (President: five minutes. E, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55772	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right to a word in this part of the session? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted: MPs' groups LDP, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the DSS MP Group, the ZES Group of MPs, the SRS Group of MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia and the Electoral Group of New Serbia. We are moving to a debate in order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in the principle of the proposal for a law on the financing of political activities. The first registered speaker is MP Bojan Djuric, and after that, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55773	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, it's a good thing you're back in the O.R. in the meantime. I think it would be much better for you to be in the O.R. during and during this debate or the period when the heads of the parliamentary groups spoke, not because of a formal remark that it is always good for the minister as an authorised representative to be in the O.R., but because we would then avoid some completely unnecessary debates. We have been here for 15 or 20 minutes listening to a pointless debate between Mr Nikolic and Ms Kovac, about one quite visible and obvious thing that is very clear in the law, which Mr Nikolic obviously did not understand, as well as much else that he said in his debate. I think it's quite contaminated by this debate and it throws one negative light at the effort or an attempt made by preparing and writing this law that has many shortcomings, some of them can be corrected through amendments. I believe that some amendments will be adopted by the Government but what is a much bigger problem is the atmosphere in which this law is adopted. What we are broadcasting from parliament today, in addition to that atmosphere or to the public's message, the message will certainly not help the media to get out of it, I am free to say, the madness in which political parties are slowly but surely becoming on the lookout for all and through this law we are coming to the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court for Criminal Crimes for which the sentence of three years is foreseen. I don't just think it's, in a way, disintegration of the political system, I think that it's also disaviving the Special Prosecutor's Office itself, or the Special Court, but what are we supposed to do when we came into such a situation, of course, that the majority of the responsibility for this is borne by the ruling coalition that has been trying here for years, first of all, all the responsibility with itself, here I think of the government, for the bad situation in the country to transfer to parliament. So at one point we came to the situation that the key issue of the survival of democracy or development in Serbia is the price at the congregation restaurant. Now we're trying to get out of it somehow, but of course it's going hard. It will not contribute either to this situation or, let's say, to repeating the situation we had when we passed the law on selecting MPs. So, not to come three or four days into the same situation as last time, that the parties that have proposed the law or voted for it, in public on television shows in front of voters, publicly declare that they think that the law is either not enforceable or that in its greatest or significant work it cannot be realised at all in practice. The damage to such behaviour is much greater than any benefit, and even from a positive response to Serbia's candidacy that we expect at the end of this year. This undermines the process of European integration, and it irritates the citizens and therefore the percentage of citizens' confidence in the success of European integration, but primarily in the benefits they will bring to them, personally, falls drastically. The first important objection I have to make to this law or generally to the rules that we are trying to establish, some of the objections that I'm going to talk about, are not the matter of the law itself, but I think that the amendments to the legislation have to be much broader. This is a question, in fact, of indirect financing or the role of the public sector, particularly of public enterprises in funding parties, political work, political life. Some fellow MPs spoke of it. Of course, the law, like the previous law, has a formal provision on how it is prohibited to make contributions by public undertakings or any other kind of business entities that have state capital in their ownership structure, etc. However, funding of political work by parties is done in an indirect manner, either by investing in those parts of the country or in those programmes that are important to a particular political party, either because access to media space is misused, so to speak in advertising space, primarily in electronic media. Everyone in Serbia knows that this happens regularly, especially in a situation where the parties are not equal. I think this law had to go after ensuring that the parties had equal access to the media, i.e. getting media time, media space in the election campaign, under completely equal conditions. So far, no such possibility has existed. We also have experience as LDP from some previous campaigns, that, for example, at the time on Public Service, but also on some other televisions we were forced to practically complete the amount of funds required as a price for the broadcasting of pre-election or propaganda material to be required in advance. We confidently knew that other parties were not in such a position, especially that the parties were not in such a situation. I don't know any business in which 100% of the advance is done, how often some media, especially if the ruling structure has an impact on them, may require political parties and thus bring them to a very unfair position. I think in many parts this law operates, not to say in terms, but to experience political life and political campaigns that were characteristic of the right half of the 20th century, not for 2010 and 2011. Today, the party's cost structure is also between the elections, especially during the election campaign, quite different than decades ago when then the US presidential candidate Lindol Johnson appeared on a visit to Europe with advertising chemicals, pens, with his name on it. Everyone in Europe felt it was a lack of taste, that it was another American invention, that it was not appropriate for a politician to advertise in this way, and ten or fifteen years later it became absolutely impossible to imagine an election campaign without such a kind of propaganda material. A similar situation today is the part of the money that goes to advertising in electronic media and to use, even these new generations of electronic communications related to the “internet” and even the electronic sphere. That's what the law says very little. The next thing to think about in a different way is the question of basic concepts, i.e. the definition of basic concepts. I think it's Article 2, a provision that defines what an election campaign is, and then all the deadlines and all the rights that the parties have, for example, and the collection of funds for the cost of the election campaign, as well as for the opening of an account, are tied up for the moment when the elections are called. It's not like that in other countries. Barak Obama announced his intention a month or a half ago to run in the presidential elections to be held in November 2012. He did not just do it for political reasons, so to speak, that he would relatively early or in time enter a pre-election campaign, but because of the fact that he filled out that kind of statement gets the right to raise funds that will be used in the campaign. We have adopted a different approach, that from the day of the election, which is, by new amendments to the law, at the earliest 60 days before the day when the elections will actually be held, to define what is the election campaign. There is hardly a difference today between the first day after elections and what is given before the next elections, or what is pre-election silence. Someone here talked about it, and I think that, independently of this law, we should think about that institute of pre-election silence being abolished in our legislation. He makes less sense. Some examples have been cited of what the parties mostly like to do on the ground in those last two days trying to gain voter confidence. I think there are even more drastic and dangerous examples. If, for example, a government, on the last day of its term of office, decides to sign a contract with the "Fiyat" or, on the other hand, accept the Energy Agreement with Russia, then at least we should not pretend that there is a pre-election silence, but that we provide all parties with the same access to the media, whether the officials are in them or have the position of the opposition party. Of course this guarantee will be a very big problem in practice. There's something about it here. I think it's very often lost sight of what the election process actually looks like, especially when it comes to local elections. If at the same time you have parliamentary, regional and local elections, does this mean that political parties will practically have to provide 150, 160 performances in each of Serbia's municipalities and cities, 60 guarantees for each candidate in the province's elections, in that section chosen by the majority system, one guarantee for the list in the province's elections, one guarantee for the parliamentary list? That's over 200 means of security, so to speak, technically. The bank guarantee is an instrument that is given at a certain amount. Can't have a party have one big bank guarantee and pass it for every kind of election. Secondly, the big question is what is the possibility of laying down state records, securities of value, as a means of security in this process. How can political parties even acquire such records? What is the value of these charters at all times etc, etc. We have submitted a very precise amendment, when it comes to bail, asking that, independently of the amendment submitted by fellow Djurisic, it seems to me, and who is trying in one quite, I would say, an unfortunate way to remove one remark that existed about the uncertainty about how much money should be passed on to give the party the opportunity to deny the right to use that part of the funds paid in advance, therefore, before the elections are held. So 20% of the budget totaled to the parties. We think that there are practical reasons why the party should avoid that process of seeking, laying the guarantee, going through the procedure, saying that it does not want to use funds in advance, and yet retain the right to, after the elections have been held, in accordance with its election result, or if it meets the conditions to win at least 5% of the votes in the event of parliamentary elections, participates in the distribution of the second part of the funds, so 80% that are allocated to political parties after the elections. There was a lot of confusion about it during the public debate, in which you, Mr Markovic, did not participate as far as I know, and I am surprised that at this point you simply do not follow what I am saying, because it is a very serious problem. If we hadn't pointed this out a month ago, the law would have been inconclusive. I just want to ask you, is the LDP amendment acceptable to you as a representative of the promoter? Therefore, the party can make a negative statement that and that it does not want to use funds in advance from the budget, and that, after the elections, according to its election results, it uses some of the remaining 80% funds that are intended. I think it would be a great help to the political parties. You know how things work, even though the law says that these funds are paid in advance within five days of the list being declared. Realistically, you get them on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday before the election. In physical terms, this money does not mean much to the parties in the campaign itself, and the existence of such very strict formal conditions for the deposit of the guarantee will turn parties into new sources of mass employment. I don't know if you took care of it when you wrote this law. There are so many demands imposed or put before political parties, they will have to significantly increase the number of people working in parties. Keep in mind that it is very problematic, from the aspect of this law, and this is the existence of volunteer work, that practically any provision of services to foreigners without compensation and conditions that are cheaper than marketables should be considered as a contribution in terms of this law. One more question about the guarantee. When a party is looking for a bank guarantee, and a bank guarantee is not given in good sight, there must always be some contradiction by whoever is looking for it and gets a guarantee. How will the parties know that they have received absolutely equal terms with the banks, and you banks can't force them to, if the banks give to the parties, not only in this business, but in any legal arrangement, different treatment in terms of the amount of price for the service they provide, it is a contribution within the meaning of this law. These parties must lead in their books and express as contributions they have received. Finally, as for these amendments that we have submitted in our attempt, from the position of a party that had 150, 160 incidents in the last five years where they have been torn down, broken, destroyed rooms and other types of property or has been threatened by officials and people who are related to LDP, to try to set a rule that would protect or even if it didn't demote those who were willing to contribute, as a physical or legal person, to political foreigners, not to be exposed to what we are witnessing today, but we were much more in the 1990s. These are extraordinary technical checks for those who give the bus to supporters of the opposition party who are going to the rally in Belgrade, so different types of inspections do not leave the firm that contributed or helped the opposition party. In addition to the prohibition of such a species, let's say, chicive behaviour, above all, by the state to such legal persons, we felt that it was necessary, if the legislator wants to prescribe a criminal offence, and to establish the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of Article 38 of this Law, which refers to illegal financing, that there is also such criminal responsibility for those who threaten, commit violence and in any way lead to an unfair position or deny any right or law-based interest of any legal entity, natural or legal person simply because of the fact that it has made a monetary contribution to a particular political party. We think that this is good in terms of prevention, but also in terms of clearing up the situation, i.e. avoiding the constant doubts that exist in the public that someone is in a more favourable position or being discriminated over the fact that he contributed to a particular political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55774	The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55775	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in the beginning I will support the quest to get a law on funding political activities, which would make all flows and regular funding, and also the financing of an election campaign transparent. I think the situation is clear. However, I will try to take a closer look at the proposed newspaper of funding the regular work of political entities from public sources, and above all political entities representing national minorities. Even during the preparation of the draft law, I had the opportunity to comment on the proposed changes in the funding of regular activity and the introduction of a formula for proportionate distribution of funds. The final preparatory phase introduced a 1.5 correction factor, which safeguards the current level of funding for national minority parties that can provide four or more parliamentary mandates. This occasion did not pay attention to the parties of national minorities who are struggling to have one representative in the National Assembly, which is the case with most national minorities, who will be reduced around three times by orientation compared to the current funding method. That is why I have just submitted an amendment, which, as with the financing of the election campaign, would save the current model of distribution from public sources, by reducing the percentage of funds that are divided into equal parts for all parliamentary parties, instead of the 30% so far, to 20%, which would ease the proposed drastic reduction in the funding of national minorities' parties that cannot win more than one parliamentary term. Surely, further, an even bigger problem will be Article 25. The bill, if the proposed election guarantee solution remains, as most of the parties of national minorities will be eliminated at the very beginning. In fact, this article provides for the laying of electoral guarantee and for the funds that are realised after the announcement of the election results, which I find quite illogical. During the afternoon discussion, an estimate was made that the amount could be about 26 million dinars, almost impossible for all parties of national minorities, if the data is correct. In the previous elections, about three million dinars were transferred to the Albanian coalition after the vote list was declared and about a million dinars for a single parliamentary mandate. For the funds made after the election list is announced, and I figure between three and four million dinars, it could somehow be provided, of course, from regular funding, with the current way of funding, a bank guarantee, if the law allows it. If we consider that we have minority parties that are currently not parliamentary, we have Roma parties that were present in the previous session, and now they are not present, so there are probably other national minorities who have failed to pass the natural threshold in the previous elections, then the situation is very dramatic, so I don't see the condition of the guarantee to be provided. If these restrictive changes add to the way public resources are distributed from public sources, the fact that after the amendments and addition of the Law on the elections of MPs remained the obligation to provide 10 000 certified signatures to support the electoral list and minority parties, then it is clear that the next assembly of the National Assembly will be without MPs of national minorities, with the exception of SVM representatives, who I suppose will not have this problem, and, possibly, the Bosniak Party. In my view, this is very problematic now, with these measures we are going back, it was similar to that of the December 2000 legislative regulation that introduced the 5% censorship, and the whole of Serbia was one electoral unit, and then no minority, no minority party could enter parliament. I think we're going this way. The story, we have just heard it, is that equal MPs, and those who enter parliament through central parties and those who go through the parties of national minorities, these MPs are equal, but you see in practice – when these MPs appear to defend the interests of minorities, and to what extent, when they belong to a central party, and ultimately, what is the situation in society, how many minorities are integrated, involved in social and political life? I think at this stage where we are currently inadmissible, that it is illusory to expect a lot of minorities, including Albanians, that there will be enough votes in the next election period to have representatives here, due to a number of circumstances, we do not have time for this deeper analysis. And when we look at the environment, it is not an accident, look at both Hungary and Croatia and Montenegro, not to mention the 'Kosovo Parliament', how this problem is solved. However, I was neither a supporter nor that, through the reserved mandates and with far fewer votes, enters parliament, because I do not see that it would be legitimate, but these, I say, may, undetected measures to take, again, argue, lead us back and, absolutely, will lead to this, with the exception of one or two parties representing minorities, that others cannot meet the conditions to apply for the elections. That should be seriously considered, I repeat, in these current moments, I do not think it is a priority to ask the minority parties exactly, and I ask the question of how much they will get from the majority central parties, which I say to the now proportional system, to have slightly higher resources, but to measure how much more funds they are, and at the expense of the drastic reduction of national minorities' parties, who are only fighting to enter this parliament. (President: People's Parliament, time.) This is the essence, and give the same as those 10,000 signatures, and I wrote to the president of the National Assembly, and my request was not respected when we had amendments and additions to the Law on People's MPs at the previous session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55776	Thank you. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55777	I thank you, Mrs. Komic, dear Mr. Markovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on financing political activities, an important legislative proposal and I, at the very beginning, want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority in Serbia have been established and formed on the basis of five key principles and principles. One of the five principles declared, and one of the goals, the ruling coalition in Serbia, is the fight against corruption and crime. I would like to say that Serbia has achieved remarkable results and great success in the past, progress in the fight against organised crime. The legislative proposal we're talking about today, we're convinced, will create a real basis for one huge step forward, for a step further in the fight against corruption. We want to believe that this legislative proposal will be an important argument, an important segment when answering the question – whether there is corruption in the state among state officials and political parties. The SPS Parliament Club, today during the debate in principle, wants, above all, to support the essence of this legislative proposal, which is: transparency, control, the introduction of order when it comes to financing political parties and financing political activities. It is good to discuss this legislative proposal and to adopt this legislative proposal immediately before any elections both parliamentary and local. It is true that the area in Serbia has long not been regulated in an adequate manner, namely that the current law, as said in the 2003 opening statement, has certain normative shortcomings in the control of the financing of political entities, the spending of funds from different sources and private and public. It is important that this legislative proposal is in line with EU standards, i.e. that this legislative proposal is accompanied by recommendations from the European and the Venice Commission. It is also important that more quality public debates were held, therefore, in addition to the adopted opinion of the Venice and the European Commission through public debate, public hearing, the opinion of a number of international organisations, NGOs and prominent individuals and experts could be heard and all of which should, of course, contribute to a quality parliamentary debate, and in order to vote on a better and better law on the financing of political activities. Therefore, this legislative proposal should allow and provide for control and the public in the financing of political parties, to specify the source and way of funding. A new term "political entity" has been introduced, it includes groups of citizens and political parties, and that was the case. No more anonymous donations, which we think is very good, because many abuses are being prevented. So anyone who wants to finance a political party can do so from their account opened in the bank, and any contribution will be published on the political party's website or Anti-Corruption Agency, which will control the application of this law. What is extremely important, Serbian citizens will know how and how the parties will finance themselves and how and how the parties spend the money they receive from the republican budget. We believe that this legislative proposal will contribute to the introduction, I would say, in order on the political scene of Serbia, that it will prevent certain informal centres from having a certain effect on making important decisions, but on the other hand, we expect this legislative proposal to allow all political entities to obtain the necessary resources for their work on a purely equal and predetermined basis. The bottom line is legal, according to the law, to provide funds for the smooth work of political activities, political campaigns and to establish control of spending. We don't mind, but it's common knowledge, and today it was said that during the campaign, the most funds are spent on advertising in electronic media and the question is how to ensure that all political entities have equal treatment. When it comes to electoral guarantee, it is necessary to look for the best formulation that will allow for the realisation of the objective sought by the adoption of this legislative proposal, which on the other hand will not be an obstacle to the smooth work of political entities. It is true that the adoption of this legislative proposal is one of the conditions for Serbia's membership in the EU, but someone has already said and I want to repeat it again, we need a quality law on financing political activities, primarily because of us, primarily because of Serbia, and not because of the EU, primarily because of the objectives which are intended to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. Finally, I would like to repeat once again what the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club said – The SPS-JS Parliament Club has submitted a number of amendments and we will discuss this during the discussion on details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55778	Six minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Slobodan Samardzic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55779	Honorable MPs, the chairman of the Assembly, when we adopted the Law on Political Parties two years ago, the law before the government was represented by Mr. Minister Milan Markovic. I remember well that he was incomparably more engaged, both personally and professionally, in explaining that law than he was today. That's what I'm saying because that law on political parties and this law on the financing of political parties are two joint laws, two laws that govern almost the same matter and that should have been passed two years ago, so this law on the financing of political parties then when and the Law on political parties. That was the proposal I put before the DSS Parliament Club at the time. The explanation of Minister Markovic was that the law was not prepared, but that he followed very quickly. It is good that the party law has been passed, so that it can be adopted immediately after it and the financing law. It's been two years. If we had gone at some normal pace and the logic of the adoption of the law, we would have passed this law right after the Law on Political Parties or at the same session and at the same time. However, as I say, it has been two years, and the matter has come to the agenda following the European Commission's Annual Report for 2010, where in that list of remarks what Serbia must do has been stated that "the law on the financing of political parties" must also be cited in that section of the Report on Corruption in Serbia, therefore, in a dramatic part of the Report. So this matter came to the agenda of the Serbian Government's action plan in December 2010, and today we have this topic on the agenda. Don't let anyone tell me this isn't on the agenda because we need to meet the conditions for an EU candidate after these facts I've presented. We are directing our legislation towards an abstract goal, which is to join the EU, according to one specific but small goal or a small step, which is candidacy, and we are constantly doing so. By doing so, we also adopt laws that are not directly necessary to us, and we do not adopt laws that we need from the field of political legislation or laws that need to be in line with the Constitution of Serbia. There are still nearly 30 laws that do not comply with the Serbian Constitution, and this assembly has dealt with some other legislation. I mean, we're actually on real matter, and one day we have to deal with this law, but why are we dealing now, not two years ago or not more than two years ago? This is due to this hysterical pursuit of candidateing, where the state is doing and what it did not have to or the government avoided to do for certain reasons, so it was forced by the European Commission, etc. It's a general introduction. This law as a positive law has many weaknesses. He was made in a public regime, he had a public hearing, and there were a lot of participants there, which can be commended, but somehow when we read that law, it turns out that there were a lot of midwives, and the child turned out to be a kilo. In addition to all these participants and professional NGOs and the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc., he then went to the Venice Commission, and to experts from the European Commission, he turned out to be quite weak and dysfunctional. However, the DSS believes that even as it may be the basis for amening, for repairing and accordingly submitted a number of amendments that would correct the law, although it would not be a good law, but would be at least bearable if these amendments were accepted, as well as amendments from other opposition parties. There are a dozen concrete proposals for change, which I would not repeat now, because the rapporteur of the Parliament Club has already talked about. Maybe I'd just mention some things he didn't mention. Namely, there is one member I would draw attention to, and that seems to me to be a member of the 12th that talks about a ban on funding, who cannot finance the parties. There is clearly a number of legal, economic operators who cannot do so, which in the country, which abroad and this member is generally fine, but there is one exception that is explicitly placed in that member, he says, "except for international political associations". Now the question is asked – why is this category of "International Political Associations" defined in Article 2, where are the terms defined, because it is not clear what is meant? I can guess what the bill promoter meant, I guess European parties' associations, but they have their own name if it is, and if it isn't, then it needs to be defined. That is why this observation is very serious, therefore, to define what "International Political Associations" are. The second question is the content of nature. Is it good that such international political associations and associations of parties or the European Federation of parties can also finance parties in Serbia? In my opinion, no. Why could they, not some other association or association or, I don't know, other sources from abroad? Therefore, according to the same criteria that should not be given to political parties abroad, this category should also be excluded, which, as I said, is not clear, at the very least requires a definition with those terms given in Article 2. One of the most principled topics I will leave behind for a very short time, because I would like to leave time for other members of the Parliament club, is actually a large role or a pre-named role of the Anti-Corruption Agency in implementing this law. The entire section of the 5th and 6th laws, and quantitatively, one third of the law is dedicated to the tasks and competences that the agency needs. You have the Agency's right at all times to search for financial books, inflow records, loans and expenses, to do so at any time of the campaign, to call on the authorised party's party to take care of the party's funding. Then, various other options are left, let's say, when it comes to contributions, gifts and services provided without compensation for the parties, it is said that the content and method of keeping records on these things is closer regulated by the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Therefore, the Director of the Agency receives some quasi-legislative powers. The Director-General of the Agency shall then edit the content of the election campaign cost report closer. Finally, as the crown of all, the Agency has the right and to apply to the DRI for reviewing the party's financial reports. We already have a DRI which is the primary task of doing this job. The institution is now being upgraded by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which simply doubles business. So she runs a business without the jurisdiction of the Auditor's institution and signals to the Auditor's institution, moreover, requires her to act, and she should also act on official duty, according to what is her written authority. Simply, this kind of pre-institutionalisation is unacceptable and it creates in this area, as well as in many other areas where regulatory bodies have started to work, a kind of para-state red tape of the entire system, which can also be indisposed to control itself, because if it has great powers, goes into legislation, goes into the power of institutions, which already exist, that means that their power, party, political, and they have no representativeness, are not chosen on the basis of free choices, nor have any kind of political weight, therefore, is created one parastructure. This law best speaks of it, the pre-named business to be carried out by the Agency. This should also be taken into account in this case, and otherwise, as regards regulatory bodies, it has become modern in today's public administration, and Serbia is copying it so blindly, because at all costs it wants to enter that circle of modern democracy, but not in the way of the indigenous development of the democratic system, but in principle "saw a frog bitching and she raised her leg". So there's one big problem that we can talk about a lot, and now I'm just signaling this one question, which, if it doesn't stop in time, will turn into one or another extreme, into an institutionalization that no one can control anymore. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55780	Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. People's emissary Jelena Trivan has obligations and will speak if she arrives at the end. After the Messenger of the People, Nemanje Sarovic will have the word of the Messenger Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would suggest that you call on "Gandy from Bajcetina" not to have it again after he didn't see it, he couldn't answer, and I will start with the parliamentary question that I asked on February 23rd, which was about the financing of political parties and, unfortunately, I still haven't received the answer. The basic question you should have answered, when you set out to pass a new law, is to first say what was wrong with the existing law and what was it that made it impossible for you to apply the provisions of the existing law. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly made its remarks, but the biggest remark we have on this law is that this law has never been applied, even if you applied these provisions, one that unfortunately sits in this hall with stolen mandates would have long paid extremely large fines. At that time, I asked the state authorities to examine the "Profijler Team", which is linked to SNS officials, to examine the ways in which over two municipalities in which the SNS won power, which are in Belgrade of Voždovac and Zemun, is financed by their party's top leadership. I then presented the information that "Profijler team" concluded some contracts with the municipalities of Zemun and Voždovac, in Zemun at the end of 2009, immediately after the SNS there came to power and from 11 November to 30 December had three deposits of 460.200.00 dinars. So it was November 11th, December 7th, December 30th. In about a month and a half, 1,380,600.00 dinars were transferred to the account of the company “Profijler team”. In 2010, unfortunately, the SNS also won power in the municipality of Zemun and immediately transferred this activity to the municipality within a little over a month. As I recall, somewhere on January 18th, the government was established, and already in March of the month the first payments to the "Profijler team". In total, and that is what is most interesting, from where it is being paid, it is the Voždovac Municipality Assembly, the Development Incentives Fund. In what way they encouraged development and whose development they encouraged, I look forward to hearing from both Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, as well as any other Serbian Progressive Party who is in the mood to respond to Serbian citizens, who, according to the law, have the right to know the answer to these questions. In 2010, there were no fewer or more 23 payments, a total of 8.065,300 dinars. This is the company in which he worked at the time, according to his words “worked”, Aleksandar Vukic, deputy president of the SNS. If this isn't a conflict of interest, then I don't know what it is, then it's absurd to propose and adopt any laws here. In 2011, since we only have until the beginning of May payments, practically for the first four months, from 1 February to 6 May there were nine payments for the “Profijler team” from the budget of the municipality of Zemun and the municipality of Voždovac, totalling 1,593,000 dinars. A total of just over a year from the two municipalities' budgets, budgets filled by poor citizens, whose group has promised some better life and some kind of progress and some kind of transparent government, amounted to 11.038.900 dinars. Then, when I put all this out, we had a hysterical reaction from the SNS, so they raced from the municipality through Neboj Stefanović, to Vucic, to deny how Vučić allegedly works there, and I'm going to remind you of some things that are indisputable, which is that Mr. Vukic himself on 4 November 2010 in a show "Extracting" claimed to work at the company "Profijler team", and then, somewhere, on May 23rd in the "Insider" said that he had been working for more than eight months, so since the end of September, he did not work in the company. Now we ask Alexander Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic and the rest of the SNS -- when they lied, when they deceived Serbian citizens, because these terms simply don't match? Either he did it on November 4th, when he said it on TV Serbia, or he didn't do it, as he said a few days ago on Insider. Of course, they tried to cover up in various ways. Now I'd like to give you some information and who these people are, or who's behind this company. The company "Profijler Team" is a company owned by Mr. Goran Veselinović. We'll come to him a little later, he's a man who, according to the Official Report on the financing of the political parties submitted by the SNS in 2010, gave SNS 290,100 dinars. It's a company that, as I said, immediately after the advances came to power concluded the contracts, and it's interesting to see how the company did business during the previous years. They did their best in 2008 and then, according to the report on the Business Registers Agency's website, they had a business income of 39 million dinars. A man would think that the company was really doing well, and then when they scratched the surface a little bit, it was seen that, unfortunately, almost 22 million were transferred from the SRS account. Only in 2008. At the time, he controlled finance and the authorized face was, of course, Tomislav Nikolic. Already in 2009, this company significantly reduces its business volume and then has only 13.900,000 annual revenues, and in 2010, it is worth just over 10 million dinars. Now, when we compare what Mr. Vukic persistently told Serbian citizens, he (only a moment to find) on the show "Extracting" on November 4th, he said to himself that he is a prominent wine expert, a top oenologist, says he is not at any state function, but works day and night, but not only in the party, he works at one company, so he says – in a private media firm and I advise how and how to run certain campaigns. It's mostly business campaigns for certain companies, etc., to help as much as I can with my knowledge and I think I can earn my salary. I spend a part-time here, and a part-time job at that firm. I would like anyone from SNS, or Mr. Vucic, to answer – what are the companies whose company "Profijler Team" ran economic campaigns, and what business campaigns were they, so that we can hear where this media genius, Alexander Vukic, showed so much? It is particularly interesting, as I said, that more than eight million dinars are revenue in 2010 relating to the company “Profijler team”, which was obtained from the municipalities of Voždovac and Zemun, so 80% of the income and everything around two million dinars wastes on other revenues. This means that most of the activity, in practice, the overall activity of the company was in fact focused only on the money and on those jobs that were received from the municipalities of Zemun and Voždovac in which the SNS is in power. And then the manager asks, does the firm have a name? And Aleksandar Vukic says – I will give you a name later, because I call it “Profi”, but it is not “Profi”. There's a profiler team with yet no idea what, so it's not just a profiler, you don't think it's from the DS. At the time, Alexander Vukic has worked at this firm for two years. Supposedly radio?- I'm sorry. How is it possible that someone's been working at a company for two years without even knowing the name of the company they're working in? (President: National MP, with full understanding of your argument, after nine minutes and 45 seconds, however little about the provisions of the law that is in principle. So, about the agenda. ) I thank you, Mrs. Komic, but the essence of the law is life and we are trying to arrange life with this law. Here I am presenting the problems that have existed in accordance with the previous law and I urge you to enter amendments to the SRS, because that is the only way that these problems we have experienced over the past few years will be avoided in the future. All that I'm saying is on the basis of official documents, documents available to the public, based on the funding report that the SNS itself filed. I'm not going to mention anyone here who's not a SNS fund. Alexander Vukic is a SNS financier and it's perfectly legitimate that I'm talking about him here. He's funding SNS, SNS... (President: National MP, Aleksandar Vukic is not the subject of the law. Please make the argument, however wide, a little closer to the provisions of the law that it's about. This is the respect of Article 106.) Thank you. What are the other ways of funding political parties, in particular, SNS? For example, out of those eight million, i.e. of two million other than the “Profijler team”, 637.731 dinars paid by Voždovac Municipality, JP “Zemun Business Area” and others should be rejected. I'm not going to read now how many payments were made, and there were very, very many, as you can see, but that's how it's financed. One of those who denied the accuracy of this data, i.e. who tried to deny that data, was Nebojsa Stefanovic, as I understand it, vice president of the SNS and president of their city board. He said it had nothing to do with Vucica, brought it up at their press conference, and when a journalist asked what the company was doing, Nebojsa Stefanovic said – I do not know exactly what to tell you. I guess different media services. But what's the problem? He doesn't know what the company does, but just assumes and asks – what's the problem? Well, the problem is that Nebojsa Stefanovic was working at the "Profijler team" during that period. And he was the one who received the salary from the "Profijler team" and "Profijler team", as you saw, practically 90% of the income received from the Voždovac and Zemun municipalities budget. Instead of solving communal problems, rather than pave the streets, instead of installing sewers, those from the Development Fund finance the "Profiler Team" to share salaries with the highest SNS officials. The very interesting question is that – how are the party newspapers of the SNS financed? You know very well that it is “Justice”. It's never been hidden by Mr. Vukic, and it's clear that it's entirely their list. There is also interesting to see the company published by the newspaper “Justice”, which is “Justice press”. It is also very interesting to see the ownership structure. First of all, it's Mr. Nikola Petrovic. He is a 5% owner of Justice, and in 2010, he is an official SNS funder, with an amount of 300,000 dinars. The second owner is Nemanja Stefanovic, the brother of Nebojsa Stefanovic, who has 48% stake in "Justice". The third owner is Jugoslav Petkovic, who has 47% and has been employed in the municipality of Zemun since 15 August 2009. But what is also interesting is that "Justice" has done very, very bad business. If you look at their business reports, and here, I have them here, you can see that they, for example, had a 219 million income in 2008, for example. Then they gave up "The Great Serbia", Radovana, Ratko, Vojislav Seselj and everything they represented for 18 years, and already in 2009 income and sales of the newspaper fell brutally. In 2009, they had a income of 112 million. And then in 2010, they had a income of only 52,162.00 dinars. What could that have resulted in? This could only result in the fact that the newspaper could no longer survive on the market. And, I'll read you another document that I received under the Law on the availability of information of public importance, which I received from the NBS, which says that the current accounts of the legal person "Justice press" have been in an uninterrupted blockade since 19 January 2010 and that the total blockade is 60,646,671.66. I can congratulate them on a little jubilee. They're on today, exactly 505 days in a continuous blockade. In total, the figure was 747 days, since such periods were large in both 2008 and 2009. Who do they owe? There are some individuals I will not read, but they owe the most to the company "The Borba Press", on one order 46,665,000.00, on the second order of 12,676.450.00 dinars. What did they do in that moment? How did they get out of this situation? By starting a new company. They founded the company “Justice placement”. What I forgot to say is, and what is important for the company "Justice Press" is that Mrs. Ana Stefanovic or former Filipovic, the wife of Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, the director of this company, and she believed it or not, I have had the exact date here, therefore, since 10 August 2009, immediately after the arrival of the SNS to power in the municipality of Zemun was employed there under the contract of work, and since 16 November 2009, she has been employed as director of this company. So, when this company entered the thick blockade, they founded a new company, called it "Justice plating" and changed the ownership structure somewhat. In the new company Mrs Ana Stefanovic or Filipovic owns it at 60%, she paid 150 euros for those 60%, and this previous company had a founding capital of only 1,000 euros, and they owe more than 600,000 euros, and a scheme has begun to operate which, in my opinion, is deeply against the law. The company "Justice Press" continued to exist. It is still a formal publisher of the newspaper "Justice", with all revenues now going to the company "Justice placement". In 2010, the company had a income of 120 million and 571 dinars, but instead of confiding in damages, the money goes to another side. This is just one of the indicators in which the SNS works. What was also very interesting, and I will now come to that, is the report on the financing of the SNS that officially handed over here to the Assembly Committee on Finance. The first refers to the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 January 2008 12. In 2008. In their case, given that their party exists, there, somewhere, since the end of September or early October 2008, it is practically a business report for only three months, and has a total of 12 financiers, you will see that these are people who could be recognized so far, the first is Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic gave 327.900.00 dinars. Then comes Radomir Nikolic, his son from Kragujevac, who gave 333,949.00 dinars. Then, Branislav Nikolic. 387.000.00 dinars. Then, Dragica Nikolic, the wife, whom Tomislav Nikolic claims to be a housewife, managed to save in poor Serbia 374,000.00 dinars; perhaps it would be good to print out a shorter instruction so that domestics across Serbia can be able and in a position to save so much. Next, Miroslav Latinović, who, as far as I know, is a close relative of Dragica Nikolic, goes to Dejan Matic, who was the driver of Aleksandr Vukic, who for years was employed by us as a foreign driver, so Vesna Marković, his longtime secretary, who, you may think, gave 350 thousand dinars, goes to Aleksandar Vukic with 350,000.00 dinars, but some Aleksandar Vukic from Vardarska No. Seven. We've also checked it through the MUP, you know, it's a miracle this law on the availability of information of public importance, and I don't think anyone has used it more than I have... . (President: National MP, it is not the subject of the law on the availability of information and the work of the state authorities that enabled you to have particularly available all information which is otherwise available to the public. You have one warning to talk about the subject of the agenda. As wide and convenient as it is to use examples, they must at least be related to any part of the agenda. This is a warning. I thank you, Mrs. Comic. But understand me why I insist on this. I'm warning... (President: People's MP, you can't insist on anything. I warned you. ) Allow me, Mrs. Comic. I fully understand and accept your objection. Don't interrupt me on the third word, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55782	National MP, you are required to listen to the explanation and warning of the chairman, 20 minutes, with one reminder of the provisions of article 106, and then, with a warning that you are obliged to respect Article 106, with a very understandable desire to argue with arguments, examples of life, and to argue with your debate, but at least a little about what the subject of the agenda is. You have a warning that you are under obligation not to compromise the reputation of the National Assembly, to make sure that your discussion is on the subject of the agenda, to which you are bound by Article 106. You used 20 minutes. Sign up to keep using your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55783	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. So, I was just talking about how to finance political parties. And the law we're talking about today and the existing law regulates the issues of public sources of funding and private sources of funding. Mrs. Komic, I have never hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sure these reports that were accepted by the Finance Committee and which are public, which are exposed, in accordance with the law, and on the SNS site, are not something that can violate the law. But the law can hurt that, and it is sanctioned by Article 6 of the existing law and by the criminal provisions of the same law, as it is said, – will be punished by one who collects, contrary to the provisions of the law, funds. The fine for a legal person, or political party, is 200 thousand to a million dinars. I only appeal here to apply the law. Therefore, I found that this report was falsified, i.e. that the data was incorrect. I received information from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. There is no such thing as Alexander Vukic with the address Vardarska No. Seven. According to the SNS report, he contributed 350,000 dinars. Now, unfortunately, it's just a felony sentence. Under the new law, if adopted, there will be a prison sentence of up to three years, and the fine will be significantly higher and I welcome it. It's a shame you moved from one million to two million dinars. Maybe you should have thought about four or five million dinars. Furthermore, there is no Slavisa Topalovic who lives in Vardarska No. Seven. It is also a former member of the SRS, which gave 323 thousand and 950 dinars. But what is even more interesting than this report is what does SNS Vice President Aleksandar Vukic say about this report and the accuracy of this report? Come on, what I'm saying is, I'm from the Serbian Radical Party, so someone can say, "Here, he argues because maybe he doesn't like them, which simply isn't true, they're so insignificant to me, but I think it's very important what the closest co-worker of "Gandia from Bajcetina" claims about it. Asking journalists where Tomislav Nikolic came from, or where Dragica Nikolic, who is a housewife of that kind of money, he said – it is not a question of whether it is money from Dragica Nikolic or anyone. The money was brought by Tomislav Nikolic, but he could not write Tomislav Nikolic, since the law did not approve more than 350,000, so he had to put his children and everything else. The leader says, you broke the law, and he says, well, we all broke the law, and we didn't break it, and I've already explained to people that we had to put certain things in order not to break the law, and, therefore, it's about Mr. Nikolic. Now, whoever's lying here is either lying to Wolf or lying to Nikolic or lying to both of them. It's something Serbia's public has the right to know. And the question why the state authorities did not initiate proceedings against Tomislav Nikolic, who apparently filed various reports and why the origin of the money brought by Tomislav Nikolic was not determined. He brought it, but where he got it from. Where does he get the money to give him three and a half million dollars, where to travel, where to finance a party, committees, travel abroad, plane tickets, hotels?- I'm sorry. Clearly, that's impossible. Now there's another question, and that's -- how could Alexander Vukic, who is a kind of lawyer, say he was one of the best in his generation at law school, in this way legally speaking to bury his party president? He said directly that this is a fake, I wonder if there is actually a repeat history from the Serbian Radical Party, and whether Aleksandar Vukic once again wished to be a "calif instead of a Caliph". Now on that show, Alexander Vukic also said that the municipality of Vozdovac... (President: National MP, now five more minutes of speaking out of the agenda. If you want me to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which imply my obligation to impose criminal measures, I am at my disposal. I really ask you to stop demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly by saying things out of the agenda, to stop demeaning your obligation, believing that you can disobey the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges us all to talk about the agenda and to think that you are different from any other MP. So, the law on funding political activities, the bill of law, please, on the agenda. ) Thank you, Mrs. Komic, here, I will move on to another report, in fact, that is a report that has been officially submitted to the Assembly, relating to 2009 and there are also very large amounts. However, the society that allegedly contributed is something bigger, and this time they totaled in a year's time, they said, have succeeded in collecting 8,919,000 dinars. If I were to start reading to you now who's here, for example Mirjana Marjanovic, that's my former secretary from the Serbian Radical Party she allegedly gave... (President: National MP, I fully understand why it is so important, but now the last warning before you and I take part in the most unpleasant part of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You can't disrespect the reputation of the National Assembly, you can't disrespect the Rules of Procedure, you can't read the reports for 25 minutes by considering it as a debate on the agenda, and the topic of the agenda is the draft law on funding political activities. So either you use the rest of the time at your disposal to talk about the law, or you force me to apply the rules and articles of the Rules of Procedure. Sign up to continue and use your time. ) Mrs. Komic, I really hope that you will allow me to finish my presentation. If the report that the parties filed, starting with the Serbian Progressive Party, which itself submitted to this parliament, is not the topic of debate, although this may be offensive to anyone, then it is pointless for me to speak here at all. They all have the opportunity to turn around, say anything is wrong, but, excuse me, please, anything that comes as an official document from the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia can't be offensive. I am talking about the current law, I am also talking about the law that you have now proposed and that you want to pass and explain how the provisions on the collection of funds for the financing of political parties have been misused, especially in the part relating to the private elections because the SNS was not in the elections, they also stole from the state, therefore, from the public sources of financing of the Republic of Serbia have nothing. Now let's go back, keep going. In 2009, Tomislav Nikolic was obviously in a slightly worse financial state, so he gave only 110,000 dinars, but was compensated by others. Here, for example, is Vuk Fatic, who is employed in the National Assembly, he gave 300,000 dinars and after someone claims that the salaries in the National Assembly are small, and here, you see, how individuals from the SNS and from these small salaries can save quite a bit. There is again Dejan Matic, whom I have already mentioned as Mr. Vukic's driver, so there is Zlata Radovanović, so there is Mr. Igor Bečić, with some 300,000 dinars, he also seems to have enough opportunity to drive a nice car, though, once not registered to him, has the opportunity to buy a nice house, dress nicely, and save these 300,000 dinars. Well, then, there's Mr. Mileta Poscurica with 300,000 dinars, so Mr. Gojko Radic, an academic from Saturday, 321,000 dinars, and Brana Crnchevic 342,000, let's not comment, but we were in the Serbian Radical Party mostly collecting contributions to help him... (President: People's MP, for your sake, please do not comment on Brana Crnčević. All right, I'm done. I'm not gonna mention him anymore. Then, the name of Mr. Veroljub Arsic still stands, it is also a very capable gentleman, he is able, 294,000 dinars managed to attach SNS, if we know what lifestyle he has, so how many marriage obligations he has, so how many off-marriage obligations and again to save 300,000 dinars. That's really fascinating, and perhaps you should consider proposing him as some national minister of information. There's Daniela Radic from Saturday, I guess, Gojkova, close to some kind of kin, with 369,000 dinars. So Mr. Mico Rogovic with 350,000 dinars, so Jelena Budimirovic with 400,000 dinars, so Ljiljana Miladanovic with 37,000 dinars, Sasa Maksimovic with 350,000 etc. Now, in the following year, it was 2010, a total of 13.979.000 dinars were collected, and that is exactly why the Serbian Radical Party is now criticising the proposal for a new law. In accordance with the existing law, you had a total limit that could be collected from private sources. That limit for the physical face was ten average salaries, which is about 300,000 dinars. You're now increasing it to 20 average salaries! The legal face limit was 100 average salaries. You are now increasing it to 200 average salaries! Why? So now individuals can pay 700,000 or 800,000 instead of 350 or 400,000. And will you ever question the origin of that money? And in 2010, it's already increasing, like I said. Well, here, for example, Mr. Stefan Zankov paid 401,000, he's a recordr, so Dragan Čolić 350,000 dinars, so Dragan Babić 380,000 dinars, so Igor Becic again is 50,000 dinars, though, something less, but all of this is later corrected. Then he says – Borislav Pelevic 400,000 dinars, Nikola Petrovic, is very important, and I will tell you why, as well as Goran Veselinović, 290 and 300,000 dinars respectively. They are important because they are people who own “Justice Press” companies and “Profijler Team” companies, who are at the same time SNS financiers. So we have one continuous sequence from the beginning. Therefore, they won power, quickly concluded contracts with high amounts between the "Profijler Team" and the two municipalities. "Profijler team" has several employees, it was or was still Alexander Vukic, it's Nebojsa Stefanovic, it's these gentlemen. So there is Zoran Bashanović, the estradidna manager, with 400,000 dinars, so there is Milorad Arsic from Požarec, that's something I know, so there is Darko Glisic from Ub, so there is Radoš Ljušić, and there is Milosav Milickovic, who was also employed in the Voždovac municipality, so there is Dana Konstantinović and Aleksandra Pavicevic, also former secretary, with 200,000 dinars, and there is Damir Kovacevic with 350 thousand dinars, also employed in the municipality of Zemun and, in the end, Ljiljana Rogovic from Nova Varosi, as another addition. Why is all this important now? Because I have warned you from the beginning that the Serbian Progressive Party, a party that has enormous media power. We all know very well that media power is bought exclusively by money. You can't influence anyone if you don't have money and make sure that that number of guests and that kind of relationship to them, both in shows and in journals, can't be provided at all but money. Therefore, neither ‘Pink’, nor ‘Fox’, nor any commercial television that lives on income do they have. Now, let's see how much official money, according to the law, this is very important, gets the SNS. And to see how much money they're doing, they're doing all these campaigns, they're giving away glasses, they're getting rid of artificial fertilizer, they're making them promise sheep and goats, they're doing it! Here, I'll tell you how much money: in 2008, it was a total of 231,372 dinars. This is the information that I received from the National Bank's "Tresor" according to the Dignity of Information Act. And it's also very interesting that, of this money they got, 231,372 dinars, on account of more than 90% of that money were not entitled. This is the stolen SRS money. I'll remind you, therefore, this is the money paid by the Subotic City Assembly, where the SNS was not in the elections, but was in the SRS. The Novi Sad City Assembly has paid 118,000, where there has also been no choice, but SRS mandates have stolen those from the SNS, and this money will have to come back as well. Under this law, I filed a lawsuit against the city of Belgrade and received some five million dinars, referring to the previous period when Bogoljub Karic stole several SRS mandates and when the money was being paid to him instead of us. And what happened then, in accordance with that court ruling, will happen to all other municipalities. Look further, in 2009, the SNS received only 633,634 dinars. For example, in order for Serbian citizens to know what order of size it is and what can be done with that money, a billboard on the Dusanovo Bridge, in the Vozdovac election campaign, cost 313,000 dinars. Therefore, only two billboards could have been paid for this money. The term on TV B92 cost more than a million and 600,000 dinars, they couldn't buy ten minutes, but they submitted a report, although they used billboards, posters and those half-hour shows on TV B92, which I also have here, but due to time I won't read it now, where they say the whole campaign cost 60,000 dinars and that it was all. I think it's an insult to common sense and I think it's finally time for them to start reacting to the state's organs. Now, what's the big deal here? It is, which is a large number of municipalities where elections have not been held and in which SNS has never submitted an election list, this party gets money, and this is the best possible indicator that DS is doing everything it can to help the SNS. And the best example is the municipality of New Belgrade, where we managed to return the mandates of the SRS, which were kidnapped and stolen against the law. Several sessions passed, the deadline for appeal against the court's decision expired, a deadline for appeal against the SO decision, which was unanimous, and the president of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, which was a member of the DS, following the decision-making and the Constitutional Court, decided, without any act, to bring security to prevent SRS deputies from entering the hall and to call on those committees to suspend the mandate by a court decision and decision of the Novi Belgrade municipality. To make things worse, the New Belgrade SNS municipality's budget paid the money all the time. I can read to you, for example, February 13th, then March 13th, then May 21st, it's 13, 18th, 19th, 20th, thousands of dinars, etc. Of this income that they had during 2009 most of the revenue waste that, according to the law, the incomes of the SRS, whose lists won the mandates, which the finance ministry also gave its undeniable position on. I have to mention some other municipalities, in Belgrade, these are the municipalities of Rakovica and Palilula, where it also works very well, that protection that DS provides to the advances. In 2010, they received a total of millions and 264,591 dinars. For all these years, therefore, for 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, two million and 928,803 dinars were received from the budget, and Tom, according to Alexander Vukic, gave about three million and 700 thousand dinars. Now, that is why you must not abolish the provisions of this existing law, which say that political parties that do not have the right to public sources of funding, because they did not participate in the elections, can raise up to 5% of the funds received from public sources by political parties, who have participated in the elections. And then you will arrange a political scene in Serbia and then you will know who can go to the elections and who can't. After the Law on selecting MPs, which you have brought to legalise the theft of the mandate of the SRS, you are now passing a law on financing political activities, which you want to legalise some future SNS campaign. When they raise tens or hundreds of millions, because there are no more restrictions, they can now raise a billion, and there is no political system without restrictions, such restrictions exist in European countries, there are in the United States, which you are happy to call upon, there are also in Serbia, but unfortunately there will be no more if this law is passed. I just forgot to say, over 700,000 dinars, that's the amount of money the SRS has to get. I was already saying that money is a real media influence. Where did SNS get that kind of money?- I'm sorry. According to data I received from the "Tresora" NBS newspaper "Justice", which has undoubtedly been a party vote by the SNS since September 2008, until when they had not received the funds, has been generously funded by the Belgrade city's budget and by some public enterprises in Serbia. For example, in 2008, as it is only the end, they received a million and 669,464 dinars. However, since the DS was satisfied, I guess by doing the job, the amount is increasing next year, and the Belgrade city budget "Justice Press" company gets nine million and 859,254 dinars. In 2010, the amount is slightly smaller or the city's budget is less and it is a total of 7,088,498 dinars. So far they have received a total of 18,661,879 dinars. Now, can you tell me that this is an opposition list and that this is a relationship to a party you're experiencing as some kind of threat to the DS regime? Well, you would've cut up all their funding sources if you didn't want them to do this the way you did. So, from the very beginning, you're funding them and what's most interesting, and I can show you about it, sometimes they get an advance of millions. The moment the company "Justice Press" fell into a 60 million dinar blockade, the city stopped paying on that account, because then trusts would be compensated and directly forced payment would have taken off what was lying, rather than starting to pay money to the company "Justice placement", that newly established company to which revenues are going, while expenditure and debts remain on the company "Justice Press". That account was paid to 7,088,000 dinars, however, that is not all, I must remind you how worried SNS was about the fate of Telecom. You know, they claimed that Telecom is an extremely valuable company and that it must not be sold at all, and, behold, I think I also found why. The company "Justice Press" in 2008, when gentlemen, who sit across the street, gave up the oaths they took in church, when the party's ideologies gave up, when Ratko Mladic, who was once called a hero, and Radovan Karadzic, gave up "great Serbia" and KIM, but still cannot say it publicly, "Justice" received 20,257,300 dinars from "Telecom"; then for 2009 18,786,600 dinars, then for 2010, 23 million dinars. I keep talking about opposition newspapers, which in three years from a majority-owned public enterprise of the Republic of Serbia, which are managed by DS personnel, received no less than 76,043,600 dinars. And you're talking about protecting the interests of Serbian citizens, talking about robbing public enterprises, party personnel and how, my God, you don't know how threatened you are. When you add these amounts that you get from the city budget and from Telecom, it's total from the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55784	I'm informed you're not talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55785	Make sure I speak. So, I'm just talking, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, about how to finance political parties, and most specifically, based on the data I received in accordance with the law that you have passed. Therefore, the total amount you received from the city of Belgrade and Telecom, which controls the regime, is 94,705,779 dinars. And you claim to be an opposition and you claim to be compromised?- I'm sorry. How threatened you are, take advantage of the possibility, so make a nice complaint to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, you now have good positions in Europe, so say, here, harass us, they gave our party a list of 95 million dinars. What should also be examined, which is the contract that SNS has with Willi Montgomery, which was officially introduced to the State Department on June 6th 2010. The object of the contract is lobbying for a monthly amount of 7,500 euros; it's been 12 months, and so far it's 90,000 euros, and you'll, of course, say it's not paid, you've concluded, for God's sake, a contract, but you don't have the money to pay. But I will offer the citizens of Serbia an explanation for that, so let them assess. It's about this: when any of the officials, current, former, lobbyist houses in America accept to lobby for someone, he has to give the State Department a contract to the US administration, but if the income under that contract comes out of the U.S. territory, he doesn't have to report that money. Don't think, I'm sure the citizens of Serbia don't think that William Montgomery, who is a great criminal and who has done a lot of harm to the Serbian people, has also said in his time that Tomislav Nikolic is one of the biggest criminals, and even the US state services had to send him away, that he is so good that he now presents 90,000 euros and works for free, and if that contract is not already being realised, then he should, and there is Mr Nikolic, to say, how many times has William Montgomery visited the SNS. First of all, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I will do one small depression, Mr. William Montgomery, in addition to representing the interests of the SNS, represents the interests of another person, and that is Croatian General Cermak. You know that three people, Ante Gotovina, General Markac, General Cermak, were indicted in front of The Hague tribunal for genocide against the Serb people during the "Storm" action and one of them represented the one representing the SNS, which is, in particular, those interests. Ante Gotovina got 20 years... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55786	Funding political parties...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55787	Here, I'm coming back, Markac got 18 years, and a client of a joint cartridge, SNS and their general, so Cermak was released. I'd like to ask Mr. Nikolic if he's ashamed, yes...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55788	No, you can't talk to Mr. Nikolic, you can talk to me and Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55789	I do not speak to him personally, nor as a National MP, I address him exclusively as a SNS financier in accordance with the Report submitted to the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, exclusively accordingly. He doesn't interest me as an individual...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55790	You're breaking business. Don't bring me in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55791	... And I cannot speak to him as a messenger to the people, for he is not a messenger to me. To cross that part, since I suppose he's not ashamed to be represented by the same man representing Croatian generals, the next question he needs to answer, these are SNS premises. You are in accordance with the existing law, as well as any service you receive, obliged to receive an account and to make it known in the financial report, and all those services, even if they are given free of charge and what is deviating from the market value, you are all obliged to report it. Did you report a contract on the lease of business rooms for your party, for which, in your words, by Djordji Nicovic, a man who has tens of thousands of hectares of Serbian orcs and who knows how many companies, and as far as I know, in 17 is the majority owner, is free to say that it is a tycoon, and you claim that tycoons do not finance you, you said in 2008, that the lease is 5,000 euros a month, but that you do not have money, you will already pay when you have it. Did the time come, Mr. Nikolic, and do you now, have anything for these...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55792	Please, don't speak to Mr. Nikolic, speak to the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55793	Did the SNS pay any of that 5,000-euro lease for the previous 32 months, which is 160,000 euros or 16 million dinars without interest? What's clear is that you didn't report it in this report. How did you pay for all these rallys and gatherings you held? You boasted that you arrangedly brought 50,000 people, that there were 100 to 120 thousand people, but, my God, you brought over 50,000 people on buses. So, 50,000 people, that's a thousand buses, and we count that the price as in Belgrade, the minimum price, not to count Nis, Vranje, that I don't count Subotica where the price is higher, that for all buses the car-day was 300 euros, and that's 300 thousand euros, that's 30 million dinars just for buses, so where's the stage, where's the sound, where's all those TVs that passed that rally? How much is an hour or an hour and a half on "Pink" TV, which was directly transmitted or you got out of market terms, but in that case you had to report it? Of course, you can't explain this in any way. You can't explain the way you ran the campaigns, you can't explain how you financed those meetings, they had to cost at least 40 or 50 million dinars, so it's hundreds of millions of dinars. You can't say – we're funding from membership fees. Even according to the reports you're teaching yourself, there's no billing fees. Look at your election reports on the Vozdovac municipality. There's an item that says: income from membership fees and contributions from natural persons. The amount – zero dinars. So you didn't have contributions, you didn't get money from the state. Then who paid for all those billboards? Who paid for dozens of billboards all over the Leaders, who paid for everything else? Who paid for the paved streets in the Pubal Villages, which you did without any technical documentation, without permission, without anything? We'll get to that part. Each political party has a certain responsibility. The best example of how a party will rule, if it gets a chance to rule the state, is municipalities in which it is already in the power of the SNS, which has several such municipalities. I'll talk about the Belgrade municipalities of Zemun and Vozdovac. What I'm holding here is a report of a budget inspection for the municipality of Vozdovac. Look at what the report of the budget inspection looks like where the government is running the SNS! Here's the report from 2007 to today. One is DS, for several years DS has been in power, there are more than 150 different violations, where everyone has broken different laws, and the other part refers to the period in which the SNS was in power. Do you know the difference between these two parties in the way they exercised power? Nothing! All those provisions of the law that she's been breaking for years, now she's breaking the SNS. When we heard that the report of the budget inspection was completed, we expected a bunch of attacks by the Democrats against the SNS, because these illegalities were huge. However, this was not the case. Then we tried to get to the budget inspection report. It took us months, because the city administration refused to give it to us, we've been looking for every possible basis. Finally, we came to this and saw the conclusion of a contract without public procurement, the distribution of compensation and jubilee awards, to which they had no right, the hiring of assistants contrary to the law, the purchase of fuel contrary to the law. I'm talking about DS and SNS, but, like I said, neck crows don't dig. Then, the asphalting of the streets, making certain squares, making fountains, so there's absolutely no difference between SNS and DS I just wondered who was financing and who paid for this asphalting, and we all know that the SNS in the campaign had asphalted, although they had no cover for it, in the village of Podvali. Now I'm going to tell you some information that might help. The SNS authorities have decided for seven local communities, that without any tender, without respect for public procurement procedures, to transfer certain funds to the local communities, to conclude some asphalting contracts. They transferred to the local community Kumodraz 3,287,000; Rakovica 3,406.000; Jajinci 3,413.000; Pinosava 3,373.000; Ripanj 3,412.000; White Stream 3,400,000; Zuce 3.417.000.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55794	Mr. MP, I wanted to ask you not to speak specifically of the Political Party Act, could you be more abstract, please, so you'll be back on the agenda. Do not just take an example of SNS, it is wrong and is not in line with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55795	I agree. Just until I finish this, and I'll mention some DS. Thus, for these seven local communities, a total of 23,711,371 dinar. And how many experts are those from the SNS, who have submitted to the Assembly procedure of the Public Procurement Act, I suggest you return it immediately, says this report of the budget inspection. I'm just going to read some of the most important parts, refer to the Cancer Meat Community, and all seven are very similar. He says, "They have made a decision to launch a public procurement procedure without a financial plan," and then he says, "By taking into account the decision to initiate the retail procurement procedure and it has been found that it does not contain a regular number of public procurements, which is contrary to the Public Procurement Regulation. “ Then, “Determined members of the commission,” and there were no graduate lawyers in that commission, so they said, “they made a call for three companies to make offers. “ What is interesting is that on June 8, the first call for tenders was made, and then on June 10, two days later, they made a decision to launch small procurement. So, first they send the companies, and then "The Forest Road", "Serbia highway" and "Milmar Road", invites them to deliver offers, and then launch the public procurement process of small value. Of course, the call says it's due seven days, but the call doesn't contain a time limit on whether it's from the date of reference or the day of reception. There is no record of the last day of the deadline, not knowing what time the bidders are due to deliver offers, no notice of the place, the day and the hour of opening offers, as well as the time and manner of submitting the power of attorneys to the tenderers, etc. I can't read this. There are dozens more irregularities. What is interesting, in the process of controlling the record of opening the offer, to see how professional they are in that part, says: “The opener record does not contain: the names of the members of the commission, the order of opening of the submitted bids according to the time of reception, the number under which the offer is listed... ”
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55796	Go back to the law, please. You're talking about a whole other legal matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55797	I'm done. I'm just going to say one more very interesting thing, in order to clarify, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, in which the relationship between these three companies that appear in all these so-called public procurements, which do not meet any legal requirements, to show that these are related enterprises, and says that – with the insight into the Construction Log, it has been found that on the first and last pages the contractor of the works "Serbia Autoway" has been entered...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55798	Mr. Sarovic, you have three more minutes to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55799	Just so I don't miss it for the DS to show what the local community election looks like. If the camera is available, these are DS rooms in Kruševec, where the message “we follow the vision” and pictures of Zoran Djindjic and dozens of packages, I guess several tons of oil, so there are other packages, as you can see from various angles of the room. All this is well filled with packages. I suppose these packages are for the spread of democracy. And, finally, to say more about Vozdovec and the case of how the government, namely how the SNS is ruling, they were in time attacking the SRS that we had entered public enterprises, they lied about compensations from 40,000 to 90,000 dinars, even though they were compensations for a member of the board of directors of 20,000 dinars. It's interesting what they paid for, especially in "The Forests". There was a time of compensation for the chairman of the Management Board no less than 70.000,00 dinars, so when the Director was changed, then she came to 50,000,00 dinars, and then I applied in accordance with the Law on Access to Public Information and asked for official information on the amount of compensation, then they further reduced to 25. Otherwise, it is a self-financed company, which was once able to finance on its own. Before they were hit by an elemental disaster called SNS, they had 23 workers, they had a positive balance, they had an annual income of 56 million dinars. When they were hit by SNS, they now have 34 workers, so 50% more, 11 more workers. The income fell to 47 million dinars, constantly asking for help from the municipality, the Belgrade Power Plants owe 9,200,000,00 dinars, and for electricity they owe 1,200,000,00 dinars, so somewhere, more than 10,000.000,00 are owed. These are just some of the arguments I wanted to talk about. I'm sure I'll have a chance to speak and debate in detail, but I'd like to now invite Mr. "Gandi from Bajcetina" to answer these questions, to tell us whether Alexander Vukic works or doesn't work, here, I'm finishing... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55800	You've wasted your time. Don't insult the MPs, please. No more time for the SRS. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55801	Risking being so kind to me, I must say that one nerd can never insult me. Don't defend me! What we've been listening to here for an hour, it's a job for you. I think you should always be a doctor and always remind each and every one of us on time when you notice that we've gone too far and that it can cost us our lives. I've never met an obsession like this with one person in my life. I have to tell you, you don't have to defend me because I didn't notice anyone mentioning me here. It seems so pointless to me, it's petty, it's lax, it's so much an attack on the SNS, which is the strongest, which is supposed to win, it's so little compared to applying against Serbs that they've committed war crimes, committed by a nerd. If I'd known they were like this, I don't know how I managed not to see it in public while I was there, but if I'd known that individuals were like this, I'd have left that party, I wouldn't have waited for them to throw me out. So all those tiny souls came out. The task is to turn on Tomislav Nikolic. Well, how come that's not going to work for you? So, how did we get to 40% of the vote? Imagine if you weren't responsible for it? Imagine, maybe we're not as good as you guys are? And everyone in Serbia says -- surely they are good as soon as Nemanja Sarovic attacks them, the jewel of the Serbian political scene, dared to talk about Tomislav Nikolic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55802	Time. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard after more than an hour of rinsing ears that someone here is stealing some councilman's mandates, and the gentleman, as a kind of lawyer, at least so presents himself, needs to know that the Constitutional Court has acted, ruled, should know Article 104. The Constitutional Court Act must know that it must and must respect as a representative of a political party, so he accused us of being in a coalition with the DS, and since the disputed decision of the Constitutional Court, you can count the municipalities where the mandates have been returned, i.e. where the decision was made and the DS is in power, so who's defending who here now? Otherwise, I can say that Crow is also an extremely beautiful city. That's where I served the army for a year. I know how many kilometers from Pogorets to Vranja and Belgrade to Vranja, and I know that the gentleman who spoke as an authorised representative of the SRS knows only the figure from the mileage when he came to the register, so he raised the diaries as if he were traveling from Vranja, and he raised from the City of Apanage Assembly as a council member of the City Assembly, which is also the opposite of the law, while he also took the membership fee from members of the SRS to charge travel expenses to go to Vranje. So much for how much he loves the SRS. Sir, you who have been dealing with the lives of all of us here so far, there is one saying in the people: “He who does not have his own life, he deals with someone else’s life.” And I expect you, sir, to show up at the Serbian Parliament's cashier's office one moment and write that you went to the Serbian Parliament from Užica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55804	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55805	Mr. Arsic, you don't understand the laws, you know the secretaries, I suggest you stick to it. As for Mr Nikolic and the claim that I got the courage to talk about Tomislav Nikolic, yes, I got the courage to talk about such an intellectual clump. In the sixth decade of his life, as far as we can hear, he's even finished college, but he still hasn't had the courage to go out on a television duel with that nerd, that misery, that misery, that little Nemanja Sarovic. If you're so big, Mr. Nikolic, if you're so strong, then why don't you gather that courage? You speak in language of insult, I have not offended you for a moment. It offended you that I was telling the truth! You were offended by the fact that I presented the information you presented yourself! You were offended by me asking you where you got three and a half million dinars, according to Vukic, which you brought, and then you distributed a little to the children, a little to the others! These are the questions you need to answer. Mr. Nikolic, answer the question, where did you get an apartment of 191 square meters?- I'm sorry. Answer who pays you utility for that apartment? Answer how much did the apartment cost in a “smart building”?- I'm sorry. This apartment costs 4.5-5 000 euros per square. You're talking about someone's psychological profile? Well, what kind of a 60-year-old man buys for himself, he had a 100-square-square-square-square apartment, so it was a little bit, so he grew his appetites, so he bought a 190-square-square-square-square apartment? Where did your family, your family's members come from, the property they enjoy? Explain where your son, the SNS financeman, Branislav Nikolic, lives in, a 140-square apartment, on the street, you know what street...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55806	I'd like to ask you to stop. First of all, it's been two minutes. Two, don't mention the kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55807	I didn't mention it, I said the financier.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55808	You have no more words. These aren't replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55809	I'm talking about SNS finance...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55810	No, you don't have a word anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55811	Here, let me just finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55812	You have no more words. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55813	Mr. Sarovic, if you were married in time, today your son could finance your political party. Maybe you'd already gotten an apartment if you'd done something in your life. Perhaps you'd already been respected if you'd done something in your life. And the fact that you learned only to open your mouth and sow hate for Tomislav Nikolic from them can help you until the next election. And, keep this relationship of power in parliament, however you know, until the next elections, after the next elections, Serbia will see you in parliament as well as before you came, never again. You cleaned up the party, you threw out the thieves. You act as a police inspector, instead of filing a criminal complaint against me, so that you may say – a man has become rich, acquired it, acquired it, you say it in the congregation. The president of the Assembly knows very well that it is forbidden to present information about another person, about the life of another person, that it is taken away from you, but it suits you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to speak ill of me here. It can't hurt me that bad people talk about me bad, or that, I think, good people enjoy hearing bad things about me. The time for change has come in Serbia. And if there were no SNS, you, who are in power today, would have been defeated like this, and you would have thought very carefully about what would have happened if you had been defeated like this. (People sent by Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: Replica. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55814	No more replicas. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, you just have to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55815	Thus, the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107, was injured. It is clear that you, first of all, did not have the opportunity to give the replica now to Mr Tomislav Nikolic. So, I didn't insult anyone, I didn't say no nerd, I didn't say no misery, I didn't insult any of what he said, I didn't invite him to need a psychiatrist. I asked only that the competent authorities respond, and if there is already talk of filing criminal charges and competent state authorities, as a MP, I have the right, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to ask for certain information, to raise certain questions with the state authorities. I ask that my entire exposure today, because it is made up exclusively of facts and that is what hurts this group there, deliver to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Police, the Anti-Organised Crime Agency and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as to any other competent state bodies that can stand in the way of this crime. No one can bring Serbia's citizens any good if they are rich in the way or under the conditions under which Tomislav Nikolic did. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I have the right to ask you as a sponsor of the SNS for information – where do you get the money, as I have the right and all the others you've listed as SNS, and your wife and your son and sister-in-law and everyone else, to ask where they got the money from?- I'm sorry. How is it possible, while tens of thousands and millions of citizens are barely making ends meet, that you're buying an apartment after the apartment? Your 191 square-square apartment, it costs almost a million euros in market terms. Your son who trains in Partizan, younger categories, so he is not Radomir Antic to buy an apartment that costs 600 or 700 000 euros with the Spa Center...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55816	Time. Time. Asking parliamentary questions is possible as an institute, but not in this part of the session. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55817	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a comment on the agenda and a proposal for a law on the financing of political activities. I won't use arguments from a divorce case, nor is it good to use such arguments. Citizens want answers to some questions, some misunderstandings. There are many issues raised when it comes to the law on funding political activities. Just before I start talking about this law, I'm going to remind myself that the legal regulation of funding political organisations is relatively newer. In Europe, it developed only in the mid-20s. In Serbia, we received the first Law on the financing of political parties in 2003. Today some of my colleagues have said that this law is no good, that this law is not good, that the law will not vote. They said the same thing in 2003, but they said the same thing when we passed the Law on the availability of information of public importance, and today you see that those with a delay of a few years realize how good the law on the availability of information is, and even some praise it, call on its provisions, apply it, use it, obtain data. Today, after eight years, they realize that the 2003 law on the financing of political parties is good too, because in their discussion they said that while they were in power, while there was no Law on the financing of political parties with the people shared both good and evil. That is true, they took good, they left evil to the people, and now that people have the right to regulate the political space in this country and to know on what principle political parties are financed. The local public is very focused on this topic, but unfortunately, the media are approaching this topic with a great deal of sensationalism. It is true that it is necessary to know who, as well as why, is funding a political party, but it is a critical approach to this topic, in order for this topic to return to institutions, is often lagging behind and, indeed, this great sensationalism, which is present today, is best read in comments made by many interested individuals at various forums, but also by some journalists, where they say the law will further reverse the political scene. It's absolutely not true and it's not acceptable. The law regulates Serbia's political scene. He is not the result of any hysteria that we are jumping from both feet towards the EU. This law is the result of sound, reasonable decision-making and decision-making to regulate this activity, to regulate this segment of society the way civilised countries of Europe and the world do. Some here have easily dialed the numbers. They mentioned hundreds of millions and billions of euros, amounting to comparisons from US campaigns and some far richer countries. There, political campaigns are spent much more money than the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, to fund political activity, the money is directed under public attention. Today, a man who participated in the presidential campaign was arrested at the premises of one of our southern neighbours because he violated the provisions on the financing of his political campaign. It is good to keep this in mind, because in the Balkans, money flows were channelled from illegal activities to legal flows, political flows and when someone says – why this is called "the law on financing political activities" rather than financing political parties, well, financing political activity is a much wider concept. Because it is known that there are also groups of citizens running in Serbia, that individuals are running and then they would not be subject to the law on funding political activity if the law was called a law on the financing of political parties and would be placed in a privileged position automatically favouring them. We've had opportunities to have several very important segments to talk about when we talk about this law. One is a guarantee. No one will be able to participate in political campaigns in the election game with the intention of not crossing the censorship and taking the money from the state budget. He's gonna have to make bail, so if he doesn't cross the censure, he's gonna have to give up that bail. No one will be able to point a finger at someone and say they are funding from abroad, because the law prohibits the financing of political activity from abroad. The law also prohibits political activities from funding from gambling revenues. This is very important to mention, especially when we saw in Insider a few weeks ago that certain interested groups, which are now on the strike of the law, were trying to delineate certain privileges for their activity by engaging in illegal activities and by eventually ending up under the law. Serbian citizens have the right to know who is funding political parties. Political parties are obliged to submit their financial reports. Serbian citizens have the right to know and who has the interest in financing whom, but political parties have the right to be financed by their members. Political parties have the right to take membership from their members and that membership in political parties is voluntary. What should also be said is that certain criminal provisions of this law are prescribed here and those criminal provisions are not small at all, up to two million dinars, with much more severe sanctions the highest fine is prescribed due to irregularities during the financing of political processes and political activities. I have to look back on some of the criticisms we've heard about this law. Some opposition people claimed that the law adopted by Boza Djelic was no good. Today we saw that it was great, because it's exactly the law they're calling for. Others claimed that we had politics – we will easily, when they were in power. Let me just remind you that there was no Anti-Corruption Agency at the time and that there was no law on financing political parties, so from the stage – we will easily get to the stage – how will we do it? Here, here's the answer. We want to be like all the organized world. Not to court this world, not because it requires and expects us to, but because we want to be part of the world and to make Europe here first, and then let the citizens of this country decide whether this country should go to the EU or not. But our goal is to meet certain standards. Some say it's again some of the rules Europe imposes on us. You know, we can say that we want to compete in the Champions League, but our clubs play hand in the penitentiary space. Then they will tell us: go ahead, you organize your Serbian League, when you want to compete in the European League, you will have to accept certain rules and play by them. Of course, we have long accepted European rules when it comes to sports and when it comes to many other activities, and so we want European rules when it comes to the activities of political character. Some have shown pictures of DS sharing humanitarian aid in Krushevec to attack this law. We are never ashamed of sharing humanitarian aid with those who need it, especially those who need it because of other activities of some other political parties. Also, we are never ashamed to publicly present our financial reports, and the Democrats are doing so in accordance with the law, within the foreseen deadlines. That is what all other political parties in the ruling majority do. They've all submitted an orderly financial report. Of course, there are always prophets here who call upon the end of the world and the misfortune with every law that we bring. Recently there was one, his name was Harold Camping, who foretold the end of the world. Many times you foretold the end of the world and the end of Serbia, and the disappearance of Serbia because of the laws we apply today in Serbia, which we proudly apply. Remember the law of confiscation of property acquired by crime. You didn't vote for him, you didn't support him, and he proved to be a very fruitful law. Harold Camping, when his prophecy failed, he disappeared. Some continue to endure, despite the fact that prophecies never come true, despite their failure to predict and guess. Just a reminder, this year they were seeing and selling Telecom and the collapse of the economic system and that the euro was going to 110 dinars, and they talked about it when each law was passed, regardless of the agenda and topic. If you are unable to answer, at least be able to remain silent. Because if you can't talk us out of it, at least try to keep us quiet. That's not so hard for you. You've shown that there are people who have encyclopaedic knowledge, but apparently there are people who have encyclopaedic ignorance. I wouldn't be proud of it, but I wouldn't be proud of it if every time I speak and finish the discussion I say to the chairman – thank you for not punishing me. If beatings made someone smart, the oxen and the donkeys in the history of civilization would be the smartest, at least the beatings got high. It's not the point of beating someone up. The purpose of the law and sanctions in the law is to dissuade someone. Therefore, we do not strive to make penalty provisions to punish someone, but to turn someone away from what he wants to do. So today I'm proud to be passing a law like this. I am also proud that the people of the Venice Commission have said that the law complies with European recommendations. I do not see any hysteria in our efforts to enter the EU, I see one measured action in that direction, one reasonable action, the expectation that political space, just like Serbia's economic space, should be arranged in accordance with the needs of our citizens and I want there to be no taboo themes when it comes to funding political activities. I want there to be no taboo topics about who, how and what occasion gives money to fund political parties. I think by passing this law, we're going to remove a lot of misunderstandings. Certainly, we will not eliminate a dose of sensationalism that is present everywhere in Europe, including in Serbia, when it comes to political activities and political parties' activities, as we will never be able to silence those who in everything and everything see a grain of doubt, who in all things see another failure, another courtship and another act by one's ultimatum. But when Serbia is part of the EU, they too will enjoy European civilizations with us. They may even suspect that the country is round then and that the world is a flat plate, but together with us they will live in an orderly society and draw benefits from this orderly society for themselves, their families and their children. Today we are making another step on this European path, a very important step, and I must tell you this: despite your suspicions and skeptics, despite the four years you have accused us of never seeing Europe, the European horizon is now clearly seen thanks to the responsible work of all people here, from the President to every MP! Today we also have opportunities to say – we have done a great job because we have made this Parliament look like a law-making parliament, which is very important! We've got opportunities to see bad debates that don't do any good. First of all to you, then to the citizens of Serbia. But anyway, we did a big job. We can be proud of that job. Because this is no longer the parliament we had the opportunity to see in 2007, 2006. He's no longer blocked by anyone's political whims. This is the parliament that passed the laws, which will also have a blessing for all participants in political life, and above all for the citizens of this country. I thank all of you who will vote for these laws, support this law, and I call on everyone to support the adoption of this law, because this law makes Serbia an orderly state, not a black spot and a black hole in the Balkan space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55818	Thank you. In accordance with Article 19. Law on the National Assembly and Article 21. The Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55819	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, or representative of the Government, I must first correct my dear colleague Srdjan Milivojevic – we did not adopt the first law on party financing in 2003. The first was brought in 1991 and was called the Law on the participation of the Republic in the financing of political parties. Then in 1992 -- the Law on the financing of political organisations. In 1997, it was called the Law on the financing of political parties. This, now applicable law, has been passed by the National Assembly, many remember because they participated in this on July 17, 2003, and came into force on January 1st, 2004 and continues to this day. I will not look too far at this current law, but I do not share the enthusiasm of its creators and optimism, because when it has been passed, it has been said that it is excellent, that it is consistent with European norms and standards, that it will reduce corruption in Serbia etc. Unfortunately, that did not happen, regardless of the good intentions of the promoter, because he had great shortcomings that we are all aware of. First of all, the weakest link is his control, because, under the current law, the Anti-Corruption Agency has taken over relatively recently, the control of party finances worked by the responsible Finance Committee, RIK campaigns, where party representatives sit, they controlled themselves at the time. It was a key offense to this law, to everyone who deals with this topic. On the other hand, he limited the funds from private sources to 20%, so that the parties were ahead of the election – or to fit the legal standards and represent reports that were amazing for some, which proved during these last local elections campaigns, when we were showing as much as we should have spent, not as much as we really spent. Unfortunately, that's when you follow the law. If you show how much you really spent, then the competent authority, in this case, the Anti-Corruption Agency, can punish you for disobeying the law. But so much for the current law. It was all these shortcomings that were observed that were the reason to move forward to making a new law. I really have to express my satisfaction with the way this law was done, from the beginning to today. I am sorry that the representatives of many parties did not take advantage of the opportunity to send their representatives to this wider working group, where party representatives sat, because many of the things they talked about today and many of the objections they had today could be brought to these meetings, so they could be resolved. Each party had some objections, but these remarks were resolved in a truly open discussion with representatives and the Ministry of Justice and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as some other NGOs. I think we've all given, both the parties and the Justice Ministry and the Anti-Corruption Agency, some constructive contribution that we have today a decent legal text, which, all of which, and as much as you want, you can't make fundamental remarks. You can only do technicals. I hope that in the course of the debate on amendments, the legislator will have the hearing to respect some amendments submitted by fellow MPs, in particular as regards bail and perhaps some, I have not been able to examine them all, these are technical things that really do not touch the spirit of the law and do not change the essence and intensity of the legislator, and we who will support this law. There is no ideal law that can curb corruption in Serbia. I was asked by journalists if this law would lead to corruption disappearing in Serbia. Simply, I can't believe that someone can ask such a question, and on the other hand, it's realistic to expect that when you have a good law, but even more importantly when you have good institutions that will control party finances, you have a real chance of narrowing down corruption to the least possible extent possible, because we haven't had institutions recently, we now have two, two independent regulatory bodies that can and should deal with party financing, we have the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, and I believe that this will deal with their joint efforts, and the parties' efforts to make their finances public, available to everyone, because it's not a shame to fund the party. It's no shame the party takes money from someone. What he shouldn't do is hide it. It should be announced, just as all parties in developed countries do, and then they will be reduced and doubted, making citizens, which some independent analysts, that all parties, ama, are exactly, all the same, and that they are all the same. In this partnership of parties with independent regulatory bodies, I think we'll give a good result. I never want to approach this topic of party financing sensationally, who funded whom. It's not my job, it's not the work of the MPs, it's the work of these very independent institutions whose establishment we support and whose work we support. It is their job to answer these questions about who is who and why he financed, whether it was in accordance with the law or not. But there is sensationalism, there is it everywhere, unfortunately, and that sensationalism simply forced the parties not to show perhaps everything they collected during the regular work and campaign. I sincerely hope that with this law and with the support that will, unfortunately, only the ruling majority, we will have all the preconditions that party finances will not be taboo-them, but that they will be no more sensations, but something normal, which happens in every normal country, as well as in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55820	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55821	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is a very interesting discussion today about this law. Today, in the morning, by one MP, we heard a fierce criticism of the law, after which he said his MP group would vote in favour of the law. I'm coming into a diabolical attack to begin to praise the law, so I'm going to say in the end that the DSS, of course, won't support it. Unfortunately, my logic doesn't allow me, as much as I like to be maligned at times. The law, I'm afraid, is very bad and too bad it's bad. In fact, the DSS believes that a new law on the financing of political parties should be adopted, it believes that this should allow, above all, the transparency of financing of all political parties, to reduce to the least possible extent the possibilities of any suspicion of corruption and similar criminal acts, but believes that this law must be brought very carefully and would have to fully meet all the real and regular needs of political parties. So, it must not be written as it was written, because I have the impression that the largest number of those who wrote this law has no idea how political parties function, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I'm afraid they also have a hidden idea somewhere in their head that from the time that only one party exists, and that is, that the party is equal to the state, so there's not too much reason to worry about how the party will finance itself. Of course, there will be more details about what we have against this law in particular. The DSS has submitted only ten amendments, I say "only", because it was easy to stand about 30 amendments, that we were just about to make a mess everywhere. We have submitted amendments only to the most direct things that we consider to be worth changing. Let me in this debate just to mention a few things and a few examples why I think the law is bad. My basic remarks refer to Article 16, where it is predicted that the regular financing of political parties is allocated to an amount of 0.15% of budget expenditure, beware of budget expenditure. I don't want to get into percentages right now, but what does that mean? This means that all political parties "will be stimulated" to make budget spending as large as possible or that, translated into Serbian, I say that the budget deficit is as large as possible, that the budget deficit is as high as possible. I'm sorry, at the very least, it's rude. I think that for the necessary separation, I'm not talking about the amount of money now, it was necessary to determine some other parameter, some other rapper based on which to allocate funds to finance political parties, for example, budget revenue. It is far more logical that the parties share the success of the income of the country in which they live. Like this, they can rightly tell us – here, now you have made a law where political parties will be rewarded if the state fails to do business. That's, you'll admit, nonsens. Next, the question of the famous guarantee. I find it quite clear to the idea that it is necessary to prevent false participants in the election, therefore, those who apply to the elections just to take some money from the state, and then they don't really care how it goes in these elections, because we had five or six lists in each of the elections that failed to raise a thousand votes, therefore far less than we had to collect signatures. That idea is clear to me, but what looks like to the writers of this law is unclear, and if we just look back at those 20% that are obtained immediately at the beginning, and on the condition that there are a dozen lists, that means that each party will have to obtain a guarantee of 170,000 euros. Frankly, as far as I know, I may not know until the end but I know the situation in the parties in the country of Serbia so much, I doubt the parties have property that is larger than 170,000 euros. They may have some, but I doubt they do. In other words, it will remain one dead letter on paper all the way, though, with the conviction of those who are currently in power, but I say only right now, then there will be others – that some other channels will come to guarantees from banks and all that is necessary to obtain the guarantee. Finally, when it comes to Article 17 here, there's Mr. Minister, to me, I have to admit, it's not clear, and it doesn't seem to have occurred to anyone here, the fund-raising that belongs to the parties. There are two ways of calculating that give completely different results according to what it says here. Here it is said, so I ask the question – if a party, for example, wins 20% of the votes, does that mean that the first 5% gets 7.5, so it adds 15%, or does that mean it will get 20%. It doesn't say, I'm distracting you, that a different interpretation of what it says is possible. Of course, this first way is necessary. Otherwise, we would be in a position where the party that won 6% of the vote gets less than the party that won 5% of the vote. If we didn't count the first five with them with a factor of 1.5. I don't know if you understand what I'm talking about, but what the law says isn't accurate, I assume Mr. Markovic understands. That's what needs to be made clear. In short, and with this I will finish, the DSS cannot support this law, although it feels it is worth bringing, even when we have passed the Law on political parties, and we will say everything else in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55822	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55823	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I think it's a good thing we're passing this law that will regulate the matter of funding political activities. However, he will not define us in this direction that the influence of the tycoon will no longer exist. It was necessary before this law to pass a law on the opening of the file, which the SPO insisted on, in order to see in the state structures where people who are as co-workers of the Security Service, and we know that during Milosevic's period, there was funding of the political parties that were retrograde and who stood for wars in the former Yugoslavia's space. I think it would be necessary, first of all, to pass one such law, because it has been shown in all Eastern countries, the Eastern Communist bloc, that many people who sat in state structures were co-workers of the DB Service, so in Bulgaria we know that three ministers and several hundred diplomats were agents of their secret service. It is impossible to expect that something like this is not possible in Serbia. A lustration law was also needed, as many people who were refinanced through the DB Service, through crime, illegal cash flows, cigarette smuggling, would be cleared from Serbia's political scene and would not be an obstacle on Serbia's path to the EU. The Law on the financing of political activities must be the basis for breaking up all ties of the state, which have been inherited, with tycoons. From Milosevic's political nomenclature, many were ministers, grew tycoons who, according to our media, control 80% of the Serbian economy. These are also gravediggers of the Serbian economy and it is clear that their influence exists today, it suggests that they currently owe 170 billion dinars for contributions and taxes only three tycoons, Miskovic, Beko and Drakulic, and that their total commitment to the state, somewhere, is about 500 billion dinars, which is, somewhere, about five billion euros. And then the question arises why the middle corporate class, or why what should be the engine of the Serbian economy, the engine of the recovery of the Serbian economy, cannot profit in this society, well, because of the monopolies and arrogant behaviour of certain people who have been privileged for two decades they are in prison and cannot put an end to the end. Believe me, no company, unless it pays its contributions, can pay their wages, chase them down by various police, various inspections. And we see when it comes to Serbian tycoons that that's not the case. Then the question arises, this is all about funding political parties, which is why there are no questions about the affairs Verica Barac has been opening back for years, which is why all the illegalities in privatisation are not being checked, that of the 2,280 contracts 627 has been terminated?- I'm sorry. As a result, the SPO will insist, and we know well how businesses were purchased, that certain companies that did not have $30,000 bought businesses in Serbia, paid 45m euros, and therefore the SPO will demand that, as in Croatia, a criminal act cannot be considered obsolete. Finally, there is a recommendation from the European Commission and GRECA and will be determined exactly what crimes are, which and if they are committed, which will have to be treated in this law. In recent months, we have announcements from people who use political influence and know what will happen in the future, that they will reorient their own creation, their economic activity, on the only economic branch that brings us safe profits – to agriculture. I'm afraid it may be the only segment of our economic performance in which we haven't gotten our fingers on fat yet, but they know that the moment Serbia becomes a candidate, it will receive money from pre-accession funds and will be able to use them. So I ask the state to first and foremost examine the business of all those people who are monopolically, arrogantly, suspiciously wealthy, who are destroying the Serbian economy, and thus we will best reduce their influence in politics. After the adoption of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, our obligation is to regulate our society so that we will never again see the cards that buy MPs, that some new tycoons buy MPs in the Serbian parliament and thus ensure the adoption of some laws that are in their favor. In the end, I'll say, this is not a criticism of the government, I know that this government is ready to deal with all those legacy from the past, if we're talking about a previous one, we can talk about the "C Market", we can talk about how the sale of the "C Market" is arranged in which cabinet and when. But I will also never accept that when he strikes hunger as the main guest, he will have Milan Beck, I will never accept that he will fight in a valid way against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55824	Thank you. National MP Natasa Vuckovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55825	Dear Presidents, fellow Members of Parliament, the minister is no longer here, today we are talking about a very important law on the financing of political parties, which together with this amended Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which we adopted two years ago, testifys about one continued commitment of both the government and the assembly majority of efforts to, above all, build Serbia as a modern, organised and efficient state, on the one hand, as well as the efforts to fight corruption that has already bitten our society, our policy, since the 1990s. Today, in this debate, there is a very critical way in which this text of the bill came to pass. My opinion, however, is that this law is prepared in one good atmosphere and in one good way, which should serve as an example when other laws are being prepared. First of all, the Working Group has been working since April, it seems to me in 2010, which is long before the European Commission published its Annual Progress Report on Serbia, which criticised the current Law on the financing of political parties. So there is no hysteria in the process of passing this law something that guides us and no rush to respond to the European Commission's remarks. We simply wanted to dedicate ourselves in law, as these facts have been said, since the beginning of 2010. It is very good that we have consulted foreign and domestic experts in this process of preparing the text. I think that's a good way to go. I don't understand why some of us are criticizing it. Simply, if we want to be members of the EU, the negotiation process, the best practice process, is something that is good practice in the EU, and if we want to be its members, we should apply already in the accession process of this practice. Unfounded criticism from the work of our public, even some colleagues here, which the law did not go by emergency procedure. I think it was a very good decision by the ruling majority to pay due respect to this law in our home. After all, in this way we reject those opinions that speak about always accepting the government's proposals for an emergency procedure. In this case, we wanted to show that we are paying great attention to this law, because this law is extremely important for our democratic political system, because we wanted to organise another public hearing, because we wanted to share with our fellow opposition MPs, in the stage of preparation for this debate, the opinion on this text and ultimately, that we all have enough time to prepare the amendments. Why is this law so important, and why have we paid so much attention to it through the preparation of the text in the Working Group and through the preparation of this plenary debate in the National Assembly? Surely because it is completely undeniable, not only with us, but also in the world, that the increasing impact of money on politics is something that we cannot dispute in any way, but what this kind of impact of money imposes on us is to improve and make more control of both funding and money spending control, which is available by political parties and political entities at all. We have now taken over in this law a lot of definitions and concepts and mechanisms from the so far law of 2003. However, he had some weaknesses that we had to correct. First of all, very few funds were provided for political parties during the election campaign. Funding an election campaign could in some ways force parties to obtain funds from illegal sources. We wanted to stop it and make it right by this law. On the other hand, funds from public sources were distributed among political parties in a disproportionate way, so that the parties with very few MPs, i.e. with a small number of votes received in the elections, received disproportionately large funds compared to the parties with more voters and a number of national representatives. The third weak point of the previous, or current law, was the weak control of the Committee on Finance and the weak control of RIK regarding the spending and analysis of political parties' reports. And the Anti-Corruption Agency, which has, meanwhile, been appointed as an independent institution, has significant new competences in this sphere. The fourth point that was weak in the current law, which is insufficient transparency, i.e. it was more of a free will of political entities, not of what was seriously imposed on political parties. In parallel, it is known how funding by political parties reduces the risk of abuse of political power, i.e. abuse of the influence of financial circles on political decisions. For this reason, it is important for us to explain to the citizens why it is important to budget the financing of political parties? It often seems to me that citizens often do not understand enough and that they think that the budget financing of political parties is intended only to enable the parties to have more money, not to actually prevent abuse of financial power, unfounded wealth, etc. This law does so because it allows more money to be spent in the election campaign, i.e. to distribute money to those political parties involved in election campaigns. The aim of these provisions is to prevent illegal collection of campaign money. In parallel practice, the principle has also been established when it comes to controlling the financing of political parties, it is necessary to establish a mechanism of very strict control of money spending. That's what this law looks like. This, of course, encourages several principles, applying several principles in practice, and this is also the principle of equality of political parties, on the one hand, but also the principle of fairness, all have the opportunity to participate in the campaign and to fund the election campaign. One aspect we haven't talked about so far, and I think it's very important, which is to prevent the illegal wealth of individuals in the campaign and their influence on the formation of political parties. Because of such phenomena that are happening in the world, it is probably ours that influences in political parties focus only on those individuals who have become rich in political practice and have gained some additional power. This ultimately affects the reduction of equal chances and all those who run and all who participate in the politics and development of a political party. I think it's essential that I don't talk about any concrete solutions proposed by this bill, that some things be specified. I believe we'll do it with amendments. The question remains whether funds for the political party's regular work can be spent on some humanitarian activities or granting scholarships to some members of the party. Some parties have done this before. These are good political practices. That's what they have in their programs. That's something to be precise. What is important, and this is how to prevent arbitral interpretation of what it is that services are provided without compensation, i.e. services provided under conditions that deviate from the market. Any kind of arbitration in interpreting these provisions would not be of benefit to the good application of this law. Finally, I think the debate on this law is an opportunity to talk about something that is the position or image of political parties that exist in Serbia. With all due respect to all independent theorists, analysts, they cannot be taken away from the impression that their criticisms, which are referred to political parties as the only culprits for everything in this society that is not very often encouraged by some sensational motives and that such criticisms, which do not rarely have any constructive calling, bring citizens very often into a situation to ask themselves – if the parties are the product of every evil in this society, what do we need from these political parties, what will Parliament, what will democracy, after all, do to us? Those are very dangerous questions. Of course, we cannot influence what they think and say independent analysts and experts, but, as representatives of political parties and as MPs, we must work to defend the image of political parties, as the main actors in connecting between politics and citizens. That's some necessary stuff. We who believe in political pluralism and representative democracy have one such, if you will, and an educational mission. She's very important. It is certain that the critical reasons for political parties, very often, are established, but I do not want to run away from it, but, on the other hand, the only way to fight these criticisms is to accept the necessity to change the practice we apply in our work, to promote it, to accept the standards of those who have more developed forms of democracy and thus try to restore that trust between citizens and political parties, between citizens and the political process. It is certain that political parties work in society and that all processes that exist in society affect them as well. They are not the initial initiators of negative phenomena. We have been in a situation since the '90s where the criminalization of our politics, our economy, our society as a whole has been very much bit by our society. Let us remember those various practices that existed at the time, import-export credit licences, etc. where the state has continuously influenced a special environment and what are actually the centres of financial power. The influences of the rich and powerful on political parties arise and because we do not really have market conditions in which economic operators operate, and we have to fight to improve the law on political parties, we also have to fight to create better political conditions, better market conditions, better business associations, because if the state affects business decisions, to a large extent, then there is a basis for this change between politics and economics, or financial powers. I think it is very important that we understand this and that citizens understand this, that political pluralism, on the one hand, is looking for economic pluralism and that we must support the creation of a network of active entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, because this is what develops political pluralism and if you want to diversify the sources of funding of political parties. All the mechanisms provided for by this law, I think it makes a significant contribution to curbing corruption in Serbia and this is not the only law that can produce the effect of curbing corruption, but together with other laws and with one network of institutions that exist and whose responsibility is to fight corruption, this effect can be achieved. The key question is how the law will be applied and my belief is that much more needs to be paid attention to how to prevent violations than how we will define the penalties ourselves, even though they are put in a very rigorous way by this law. I think it is also important that there is one increased internal financial discipline and particularly the discipline of each party's local, municipal authorities. I think that for the success of applying this law, our commitment to democracy and our understanding that only by example, both the political party and the political party, whose members we are, we can contribute first and foremost to rebuild one trust and promote trust through political parties and together contribute to building a political system that is transparent, efficient and modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55826	The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55827	I have little time left to make any remarks that the DSS Group has on this bill. The ruling majority justified the postponement of this law by the need to create conditions, to bring out objections to this law in public, by participants of this public hearing. I did not get the impression that any of these remarks was incorporated into the existing text of the law, although among the participants themselves, both from the ruling majority and among the members of the Working Group who worked on the draft of this law, it was obvious that there were differences, doubts, and opinions that the draft law on the financing of political parties was unsettled. Prime Minister Cvetkovic then addressed those present and said that funding political parties and other political entities in all democratic states is one of the central issues, since without public insight in the way of funding it is not possible to establish control over the work of political parties. Also, without public control, it is not possible to prevent the impact of informal power centres, first of all, of people with large financial resources, so that they can have an inappropriate impact on political decisions. As for informal power centres, which Prime Minister Cvetkovic spoke of, I believe that the solutions given in Article 9 create quite a space for their influence. Article 9(2) literally states: “The contributions are also loans, loans and other bank services and other financial organisations provided under conditions that deviate from the market, as well as the write-off of debts. “ The basic question raised here is, what is it that encourages the contributor to lend credit or loan under such favourable conditions, even on the means given and written off. Is that exactly the way so-called. informal power centres, various tycoons, stakeholders to influence political entities, and thus political entities act exactly the opposite of what Prime Minister Cvetkovic was talking about. At all, the basic problem that existed and under the previous law is not solved by this bill either. In fact, this one deals exclusively with income, but not with the expenses of a political entity. This law has given rise to immeasurable heights in absolute terms for political entities to raise funds and invest them in an election campaign, but at the same time, the law did not allow equal treatment of political entities and control of how money is spent in the election campaign. First of all, I am referring to the media and the remarks that a large number of MPs today have pointed out and there is not one law, the Law on Radio Diffusion, or by the Media Law, and even by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, it is only declared declarative, but it is not precise, what are the conditions and what is the maximum that a political subject can have in an election campaign. I think these are major failures of this law, I would like to quote an example of Slovakia and the Czech Republic, where there is free advertising in the media of all political entities during the election campaign and that this is the only way to stop the abnormal and unlimited spending of money. The DSS has given a large number of amendments, and we'll discuss them when they get their turn. What I would say in the end, the participants themselves in this discussion from the Working Group, and here I think of Vukovic and Zoran Stojljković, when this law was discussed in public hearing, said that many decisions are essentially a fruit of rotten compromises and that they followed the opinion of the majority, although these solutions are not adequate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55828	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55829	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the regulation that lies ahead of us, that is, the draft law on the financing of political parties, or activities, actually deals with regulation and regulation of the rules in one of the most important fields of freedom that our Constitution has prescribed in 2006 and 1990. So it's about political freedom. When I talk about political freedoms, it may sound paradoxical that we should talk about regulation of political freedoms, but people in the nature of things don't act well by conscience, not in the best way possible, people need regulation and political freedoms, so that everyone is clearly represented in how we will all participate in this conquered area of the Constitution written down. So how do we organize, how do we team up, how do we connect and how do we finance political activities. The field of political freedoms is linked to the field of freedom of speech and the fields of general freedom, i.e. human and civil rights, and it is therefore important to recall why the debate on the Law on the financing of political parties is so important and what is the social and historical context in which we are today discussing the Law on the financing of political parties. The law now in force was passed in 2003, precisely to regulate the work in the field of political freedoms of a multi-party society that had just built its institutions and the way political parties have a position in all institutions. The practice has shown that it is quite obvious that this law should be amended, that certain measures should be completely changed, such as giving up, such as the Committee on Finance and the Republic Election Commission taking care of proper spending and the availability of public money by political parties, and the details of how election campaigns are financed. During a single-party society, which many of us remember with nostalgia, it is important to remember that it is at the same time a society without political freedom and that it was not a time in which we could in any way ask questions about the field of political freedom, how and how, from which sources it was financed, the first Alliance of Communists of the Federal State, then the Republic and the provinces or, before the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. Then why do we remember that time with nostalgia? Because we remember the good at the same time, therefore, we remember carelessness and we are not interested in what reasons we had this sense of carelessness, and we forgot that there were no fields of political freedom, and there was no field of control of the availability of public money from those who joined the political party, or party. And what's our proposal? Let us not forget that the desire for carelessness that we remember with nostalgia is good, but that we now achieve it by knowing clearly what the rules of association are in political parties and how each political party, each party has public money. The law that was before us was in public hearing, at a public debate, suffered many changes, had a good way of passing laws, because it was done in the work group, which included the ministry, which was attended by representatives of political parties and is still for debate and for the submission of amendments. I have submitted 10 amendments, to which I have tried to specify the provisions of various members of this law, and I will speak more about them in particular. Let me just point out that the amendments refer to some of the members who define the guarantee. And it's good to know what the guarantee institute is about the bill on funding political activities and why it's good. Because it is required by the political party to raise funds in a regulated manner and to make those funds a guarantee if it wants to participate in a political field of freedom called – elections for any level of government and thus guarantee that they really mean it, and not that they are there because they were created without a basic programme, ideology or without membership, or without legal sources of income. It is necessary to specify and review the amendments submitted by various MPs, I see that this part of the law, members of the 20th to 26th, will require and the work of the parent committee, and a common amendment is possible to unequivocally specify what the guarantee institute is, in which way it is submitted, at which point, who can have the guarantee and whether or not one who wants to compete in the elections, and does not want to have the 20% of the total amount allocated to the elections, whether he can use the 80% after the election. The second member I submitted to the amendment is to specify the member of the law which speaks about the relationship between the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, because there has also been a public debate, whether one regulatory body can, by means of a law which prescribes its own competences, by which we prescribe the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, prescribe obligations for another regulatory body which already has its powers defined by the DRI Act. It was my intervention, that everything that seems to be supposed to be in accordance with the DRI Act. Finally, Article 38, on which I failed to submit the amendment with technical help, but fortunately, colleagues from the DSS Group and fellow MP Sreto Peric from the SRS parliamentary group submitted. Namely, Article 38, which defines the crime, or criminal provisions, states: “The prosecution of organised crime, or the special department of the competent court, which acts in the criminal cases referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article, is responsible for the prosecution of organised crime. “ I will ask, I will try to negotiate with the members of my own parliamentary group, so both the DS and the ZES Group, to reach agreement to accept the amendment of counterpart Sreta Peric, who asks that this attitude be deleted from Article 38, for many reasons. First, it is a regulation for the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime that is discriminatory from the point of view of the law that exists for the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, as well as for the special department of the competent court. But it's more important to me that whoever asked the Working Group to enter this position into Article 38, which he introduced with prejudice that the only thing that could happen in crimes was during the financing of political parties, organized crime. It's a profound prejudice from one who believes that the prosecution of organized crime must be competent, except that, to joke with conspiracy theory, it can be read as well as the intention to declare them incompetent. Neither is well, and that is why I feel that this attitude should be deleted. To conclude, the area of freedom, whatever the area of freedom, is something that the regulations should very carefully regulate, which should be prescribed by each regulation very clearly as far as the area of our freedom is spread, only to the field of freedom of the other and what it is necessary to bring into dialogue with citizens of Serbia who have a negative view of being a member of the political party. It even resented the dialogue that when someone wants to tell you that he is a fair and honest creature and that he is a good person and that she is an expert, he says "I am not a member of any political party". It's not a matter to be proud of, it's a field of political freedom that goes into free will. The observation that membership is in political parties and that political parties are in general some kind of place that is the source of corruption, except it's wrong, it's inexplicable. When you look at research, when you ask citizens, then they cite institutions because they see corruption, because they are victims of corruption or they are part of corruption, so they cite health care, state police and cite political parties. Why is it a paradox? Because when you ask them in detail, do you have any experience of corruption with a political party? They don't. Then why do you think the political parties are the ones that are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are Because not clearly enough political parties are responsible for everything else, therefore, for health care and the police, and for the judiciary, for all those places where they have experienced corruption. This is a topic for dialogue between us who freely join in political parties, which we want to pass a good law on funding political activities, in order to make it perfectly clear what public money is being allocated from the budget for the financing of political parties. There have also been several indications and concerns about why a percentage of the expenditure side of the budget for the financing of political parties is being determined. Well, he can't make any money. There we are a little bit lost, in which way you can say that you will pay political parties from the revenue side of the budget. You can't, you have to go from spending, so you're also determining the percentage of the expenditure side of the budget. I would like all of us who participate in political life and who like to be in the field of freedom organised by the rules of political engagement, to try to separate when we are criticising the other by criticising a common field of freedom in which we ourselves act as political parties: always criticise personally, always personalize criticism, but not to doubt that we are capable, able, and want in a good way to regulate this field of political freedom with previous laws that speak of organisation, association, and now with this one who is talking about funding political activities. The exercise in the area of freedom is inevitable, as public debate on another draft law, namely the draft law on referendum and the People's Initiative, is an extremely important draft law. The public debate on the draft lasts until June 18th and I would ask all my colleagues to join in the debate on the best possible solutions for the draft law on referendums and on the National Initiative, with the desire to be the first law in which we will introduce everything we already have in the rules as the internet, or "i" or "e" Serbia, introducing "e" signature for citizens of Serbia and thus expanding the field of political freedom. I therefore bind the law that is in the public debate, commending, of course, what the debate exists, as well as in this law, but I ask that if we are able and able and have the means in front of us to expand the fields of freedom for people, then we should do so now in the case of the next law on referendum and the People's Initiative, because it is the same kind of political activity of citizens, which is determined by the Constitution, and to make it easier for them to debate here about the application of electronic signature, because we have the Law on electronic signature. It is not impossible that this type of mechanism, therefore, the Internet, electronic signature, qualified, will also be possible in the application of laws that speak of organising political parties or organising elections. In this way we change society by making the ones we work for available fields of freedom that we are responsible for maintaining and promoting, so that we are as much like normal developed countries as possible, where freedom once reaches where the freedom of another ends. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55830	Thank you. I give my word to the MP Zlati Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia has already made it clear that we are in favour of passing such a law, that we are in order to regulate all the rules, when it comes to funding all the political activities, which are the basis for us to introduce Serbia into a modern world that we all dream of and what we all strive for. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted 15 amendments to a law that has 47 members, which means that we have, about, 30% of the legal members, and as the deputy head of my parliamentary group has already said, we are the parliamentary group that has the most adopted amendments on average, which says that we are really well-intentioned to every legislative proposal and we welcome the understanding that we face with certain ministers, so we hope that this will also be so in this case, because this is indeed a step closer to regulating the rules on spending of funds in political activities, which Serbian citizens are particularly and rightly sensitive. The legislative proposal itself has many advantages, and we believe that there are a lot of shortcomings, which can be removed in large numbers when the amendments are adopted. What is not a problem with the adoption and application of the law in Serbia, the problem is always, as we say in the jargon, "finding holes in the law". We may have focused a little bit more on just looking at where these gaps in the law could be and what should be the focus of the legislator to be sensitive enough, to be heard enough for amendments, which I have seen and that representatives of the ruling majority and representatives of the opposition point out equally. I will refer only to a few members of this bill, for example, Article 8, which should be more careful to consider and partially fix, where membership fees are spoken of, and says: “A member of the political party is required to make payments exclusively from his current account. “ This implies that a citizen who pays a membership fee of 1.005 dinars must have a current account. With all due respect to the desire to monitor every money in Serbia, especially one directed towards political parties, I think it will be somewhat impossible for another reason – party members do not have to be rich people. And then you'll say it's a small sum and it's quite possible and feasible. First, party members do not have to have a current account, because they are not required under the law to have a current account, they are not subject to membership in a political party. Maybe it's because they don't have the ability to open a current account because they don't have anything to receive on it, motive to activate themselves in some political party and to articulate their interests and needs, but you have to bear in mind that a citizen can't because of his membership in a political party to open a current account, because the current account, among other things, costs. In order for a citizen to have it just to pay a membership fee, and there is no income, he will need a much higher amount per year to separate the current account. These are some things that are a little bit like nonsens, but I think that with listening to the amendments, that is, in the discussion of the details of some things, they will be able to clarify and remove. So then he's an interesting member of 10. He is legally correct, but what Serbia's citizens need to explain, that is -- Article 10 treats the maximum value of giving to a political entity. So: “The maximum value of giving on an annual basis, which a natural person can give to political entities for regular work, is up to 20 average monthly earnings. “ It’s really interesting that this natural person who has an interest in giving 20 average monthly earnings to a political party, doing this as a good deed, expects nothing in return from that political party, and that this is not a certain kind of corruption, that all other abuses cannot be present. The second view of the same member says: “The maximum value of annual giving, which one legal person can give to political entities for regular work, is no more than 200 average monthly earnings. “ Since this will be made public, it will be very interesting to see those legal persons who separate 200 average monthly earnings, and they are not public enterprises, and usually those who have 200 average monthly earnings so as to give to a political entity are those who have a serious interest in giving, those who very often don’t pay their employees, or at least don’t pay them in time, and I’m afraid that they are making some other credit, some other benefit, some other indirect or direct interest, because forgive me, it’s a great sum that someone would just give it and justify it as a desire to advance society, and in doing so in this same poor society where we are witnessing all those failed privatisations and all of what happened and all of these disfigured and unhappy people, and those who are in public cuisine daily, it is hard to say that someone does just so from some very much of the visionary. You know, the time of those benefactors in Serbia, those in charge seems to have stayed behind a long time ago. We face some other people who otherwise show their status symbols, who have different and different qualities or non-quality and come, who might not give up at most 200 average monthly earnings, have been in a place that would be much more appropriate to them. But we will see what it will look like and who will be those future employees of political activities in Serbia, because some practice and experience of the average citizen of Serbia says there is absolutely nothing here for free, that the most cost is what is free of charge and that "free cheese is only in mousehunters", so I'm afraid this will pay dearly too. Of course, it is also interesting to look at the member who refers to the funding ban, or who must not finance all political parties, and there have been many significant amendments and we will discuss it. I'll put on another remark, purely professional, Minister, I can't go over it just like that, although it doesn't essentially affect the spirit of the law like all these others. This is in Article 13(1), which states: “It is forbidden to put any form of pressure on legal and physical persons when collecting funds for a political entity. “ Thus, the sentence itself is fine. As far as legislation is concerned, I think it is correct, it is fully acceptable for us, only this "for a political entity", please, is an irregular decline form. ‘Political entity’ – this is how it is shown correctly. So, not to be another illiteracy in our laws. However, the laws should also take care not to contribute to the destabilising of their native tongue. Then we had an objection, of course, to what was most talked about today, to the electoral guarantee. It's one of the members who's very disputable here, because we think the electoral guarantee should be resolved much more in detail here. In addition, we believe that this is affecting some constitutional rights of citizens, because, according to the Constitution, every citizen has the right to choose and be chosen. Therefore, it has the right to run in the elections, has the right to be a political entity and some other laws have already arranged the way in which groups of citizens can participate in the elections. We forgot one thing about the electoral guarantee, here we rule out, asking of course that only those who can place money in the electoral guarantee, so we rule out all those citizens who don't have money. Does that mean they don't have the right to be organized politically? Imagine, in everyday practice or in our political practice, that a group of poor citizens, who have lost any income, are organised and want to appear in the elections so that they can as some active political entities exercise some of their rights and fight for their rights in parliament, which is their right and constitutional freedom. So, with this political guarantee, we are getting into some rights of citizens that should be arranged differently with this particular member. Returning funds will also be something to deal with in the discussion of details and amendments to this law. The role of the Anti-Corruption Agency must also be specified in more detail in several members, so that the Agency does not actually come to be one of the restrictive apparatus in the fight against the opposition, as it is otherwise stated today, and that some members of the law must comply with some other laws, or cannot be contrary to some other laws, will then lead to misreading, or abuse of interpretation. Also, Article 38, which treats criminal provisions, i.e. introducing a criminal offence, is reorganised. And, I support the amendment that has been filed, which we will also discuss, that this final stance on organised crime is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55832	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I tried to point out in the first part what was wrong in the law and to point out what most people, realizing our good intentions, could accept that the law would be much better than how it was imagined. There's been a law so far. Under the law, we were informed by the Agency that it was impossible to act and that they would not even file charges against participants in the additional local elections because they realized it was impossible to finance special election campaigns in accordance with such provisions. This law, according to those who wrote it, which is the Ministry of Justice, and according to the one who explained it in public, which is the Secretary of State, exclusively, should be a repressive law. The very fact that those who are wrong about this law, even if they do not report that membership fee of thousands of dinars, are scheduled to be prosecuted by the Special Prosecutor's Office and tried before the Court of Organized Crime, apparently someone wanted to show that political parties are being led by all criminals. The whole story we've been hearing for almost a year about funding political parties is pointing fingers at those most responsible in the parties, how everyone's been sold to individuals, interested groups, it's long since it's been said that they've been sold abroad, that's only for us adversaries telling us that we've sold ourselves to the English, and to the Americans, it doesn't matter to anyone, and I'd like this to be the law that we're all going to act under, that it's our law, that it concerns all of us, and I'd like it to be a law that we're proud to meet and I promise that the SNS would be ahead of it. In order to be such a law, you need to seriously consider the amendments that we have written and the amendments written by other parliamentary groups, so that you do not jog, as legislators who have worked for a year, and have found the perfect solution. No solution is perfect. And don't expect the opposition to participate in draft laws, since then there would be no parliamentary struggle. If we had made this bill together with you, who would have fought here would've just raised their hands. Then seven people would decide what the law or 12 would look like, and the rest of us would raise our hands. I think this is more right. You who believe this law should be passed, you have made his proposal together, I suppose, MPs and representatives of the government. We believe that such a law should exist, but we also feel that it is not well done, that there are vague solutions, that there is uncertainty and that all of this can be removed. Because of that, since you already have a majority, you do not need votes to vote this law, you needed a voice of reason to point out some provisions, since some of us have been dealing with this business for 20 years, constantly fearing that or by no chance we have made a move that is not in accordance with the law or that someone does not catch us by accident that we are making a move that is not in accordance with the law, and you know that we were sometimes forced to do so. After all, almost all political parties have always been found for something they did beyond the bad law. I'm not saying it's not a bad law excuse to get hurt, but somehow we've all had some conscience washing in a certain period, in campaigns that last two months, in campaigns that start one ruling party, it's mostly G17 plus, and you see that in the game there's huge money, and you see, all of a sudden all the billboards and all the times on TV, in such campaigns to limit yourself to what the law guarantees you, and what guarantees the law so far was just those first 20%. No one else could have known he was going to win the mandate and then five days after the final election results were announced, he got the money he had the right to spend two months ago. This law could introduce a little bit more order, with a particular view to guarantee: either delete it or direct us to what amount of funds we need to give to get our list declared! Tell us who's giving us confirmation that we've given bail! Well, it's not possible for RIK to give that confirmation. She's not mentioned here either. I don't know who else could when she announces the election list. Don't treat us like criminals because it's an ideal state run by political parties. Political parties to put in order, in law, but not against them to fight as plagues and monsters, because societies that do not act as political parties and don't work in societies where there is no parliament, but parliament becomes either a police station or an informative place, or a voting machine. We will fully respect this law. We don't like the idea of it as a law that can hinder the opposition struggle, and I primarily think about the role of the Agency, which it gets by this law, and it's not intended as such, the role that it can enter the rooms of the opposition political party whenever it wants, that it looks for whatever it wants and, in particular, that it can implement the election campaign day after day, that it controls us like we're criminals and that we owe it three days to deliver everything to it and answer it, otherwise, what? Otherwise, what?- I'm sorry. The Agency's gonna punish us, and we're in the middle of an election campaign fighting for every vote? What can he find during the election campaign? There's your posters in Slavia, show us where you printed and how you paid for that money. Well, are we going to turn into that? I don't think so. I don't think so, and I think freedom of political struggle in that month and a half of the campaign is what we've been fighting for since there's a multi-party political system in Serbia. Don't hold it back from these laws, under the cover that you want to ensure legitimacy and legality in the business of political parties. Don't fund the parties by the number of votes won. We fight for mandates! The mandates should be financed! That each MP is worth the same amount of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Because we all have the same obligations. We all do the same jobs. The same way we came to the term of office. The same number of voters according to Dontt's principle voted for each of us to become MPs. I don't know why you were bothered by the provision that, according to the parliamentary groups of finance provided for in the financing of each MP, each of the MPs was individually paid to the parliamentary groups that had these parliamentary, parliamentary or parliamentary mandates in the Vojvodina Assembly? Why did this change happen, no one dared to explain to us here, because Minister Markovic did not participate in the draft of the law? He read the argument, he should've come who was involved in making the law, who wrote the law, who knows what he wanted. I would be ashamed if my secretary of state came forward and said there are no amendments to this law. I don't think Bokasa proposed the laws he would speak of - these laws can't be amended. Meet him that the constitutional provision does not guarantee anywhere a bill that it must be adopted in the form in which it is proposed and that there is a multiparty system. During communism, the laws must have been passed as they were proposed, but I guess we've gone beyond communism and gone into a multiparty system. We'll make you some more remarks on this bill. I wish we could listen to whoever was listening to these remarks. Mine wasn't listened to by any of the government's representatives. He probably doesn't find that interesting. I am very interested in why some of the provisions have been in force since July 2012, with regard to the financing of political parties. You don't get a budget in July. This drastically changes budget provisions. Under what law will the budget provide for campaign funds and for the financing of political parties in 2012, when the draft budget should already be. About, in September, the draft should be done. And we're going to have a part of the financing in July 2012. Are we going to finance it half a year on one principle and half a year on the other? This could have been an opportunity for MPs to realize that they were suspected, and we on the parties are the most responsible and aware that we are particularly suspected, to repay ourselves by voting for the law. But it's also obvious that according to the pre-scheduled discussions of the ruling majority representatives, you will not accept any change to the proposal put on your table, so don't expect our vote for this law. Expect us to act in accordance with the law and expect that this, as well as everything in the work that we think is not good, is not correct, is not fair, is not changing it when we are able to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55834	Thank you. I give my word to MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55835	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic will not have enough time to make any objections to a law that has long been made to which, out of 47 members, the SNS has submitted 39 amendments, of which only two of which are of the nature that the Agency has been given the unconstitutional right to lay down regulations, which, as an authority of the administration, is not authorized, and 37 are essentially intruding into this law, in the sense of detailing what you say is a good intention, but which is not implemented in this law. I will start with what the people are most interested in – that is, money and party financing. A little while ago, I was surprised by my colleague, Mrs. Komic, by the fact that she commented – and we are surprised that the basis for the calculation of what the financing of political parties is is taken for the expense of the expenditure, because the nature of this giving is actually the cost. It's a completely wrong approach. What is the basis of the budget to account for the financing of political parties, or political entities under this law, says that all in this country have agreed that only infrastructure projects, but not the work of political parties, can be financed from the deficit, which is financed by loans. To remind those who did not hear what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said. Under the current 2011 budget law, 577m dinars stand out for the work of political parties. This is the position called – donations for regular work and is on item 481. In 2010, it was 663 million. According to the draft law that we have been given, which is that according to the definition of the Budget System Act, the basis of the budget is taking the expenditure side without reducing the transfer of what is given to the province and other lower levels of government, which means that this budget, at 847 billion, is now going to be allocated twice the amount – billions and 270 million. This means that we take as a foundation part of the budget that contains borrowing, loans and money emissions through what is the placement and bond and repo operations on this market, and we want to admit it or not, accounting, mathematics is inexorable. What's another proof that spending can't be the basis for funding? This is the 23rd December, the founding of the "Transparency" organisation, which, inaccurately wording from the current law – set aside 0.15% of the budget reduced for transfers, was then a smaller base, so that since 2003, when the law was adopted by 2004, the expenditures were always, and in 2004 alone, in the past six years. And in 2004 alone, the first budget revenue was taken to account. The same law, the government that claims to be right and when it takes the basis – expenditure and when it claims that it is right when it takes the base – income, made such a problem for all parties, that the difference was made, that if the government was right in the past six years, then parliamentary political parties were unfounded for 180 million for that year 2004. Or, if the government is right, and she always makes a decision, that is, she transfers funds to the parties. There's no requirement to be transferred to you. This is what the government is doing in the Treasury Administration, the Treasury's competent ministry or self-government bodies, or a local authority that is in charge of it, turns out, and results in the parties from the 2004 budget getting 354.9 million dinars more than they are legally entitled to. What are we talking about, if we had a law that once treated as the basis of income, one expenditure, and today, even, the same expenditure, but unminded for transfers and transfers? There is no one who understands the Serbian language and who knows how to add two and two who can refute the claim that the coverage of deficits as the basis for party financing means that the parties in power and all those who are irresponsible to the citizens are interested in making the budget bigger and the deficit bigger, independent of which it is financed, so that they can seize most of the funds themselves. We simply do not want to participate in this and insist that an amendment be adopted by which the calculation is based on the revenue of the budget, therefore, from real sources. Political parties should exist, they should finance themselves, but from the money that really exists, and not to talk about caring for future generations without leaving them no corridors, no new infrastructure facilities, which are full of mouths, no matter what they talk about, and in fact it's about funding political parties. Do you really want to introduce order? No, I'm sure you don't. Why am I so energetic? All the time, someone has been calling for world practice and experience, and three basic restrictions: to limit the amount of one donor, applied, to limit sources from foreign funds, applied in part, I will say what we have proposed, and the basic limit that Serbia needs more than any other country, which is – to prohibit the making of contributions by legal entities. So, when you allow an entity that has no will, it cannot be a sympathiser of either your party or my party, that what is called a company registered in an APR, an entrepreneur, an enterprise of any kind, has the will to support someone's idea – no, it is the director and responsible face of the company, just as Mr Nikolic has explained to you. It's not our invention. It is our desire to make life in Serbia, in terms of working in this Parliament and in political action, truly fair, acceptable and respected for the citizens of Serbia. No, you didn't limit giving by legal entities, but we all know that making and giving in to future opportunities through getting a tender, through corruption that isn't bribery, but through corruption called, scientific and professional, trade in influences and which is being worked out by all institutions dealing with political life, you eliminate only by eradicating that piece called financing by legal entities. – what the SNS has done by submitting the amendment and consistently implementing its, therefore, world practice and its desire to contribute to the European appearance of this law, to compare the financing of parties to Serbia's opportunities and to restore the reputation of political action. What is, too, a very important thing, is that what is called some kind of hiring political parties through public officials is not even touched by the law. I won't mention limiting membership payments over a thousand dinars over the current account. No, that's not the way. It is a way to limit those who can manage the funds of a legal entity, undertakings, any, by making a contribution to that functioner and giving it when a party member follows it through the current account. And not to give him a proportionate amount of membership fee with the receipts he's making, because what does that mean? This means that someone can deal with politics and that all the time is in a slave relationship with whoever allowed him to be in that position and that part of his income he must give to a political party. I'm not going to list the examples, I'm not going to list what filled the newspaper column, because I want to preserve your goodwill and your pure awareness to read the 39 amendments to the SNS. We have predicted to our amendments that the political party should deal with political activity, not commercial activities, and not deal with, for example, renting real estate which, through circumstances or in the face of specific circumstances in Serbia, came into possession of any political party. Therefore, if we say - no commercial activities, no leases. We are talking, on the one hand, about restitution, and we are privatizing that there is nothing left to restitution and promise to people who need to get back what was theirs, and, on the other hand, some political parties are barely putting an end to the end, preventing them from having room for political competition from providing funding for the guarantee, which you have not worked out at all, nor can it be applied. On the other hand, someone is very nice and conveniently funded as a political entity through connected persons or by suppressing the traces of those connected persons. I think this is our only chance to show who the real European is here, by showing how much we're going to pass a law that will practically eradicate corruption to the greatest extent possible. How much of this law will we manage to build a waterproof wall so that political parties will not be in debt to those who help them to come to power, and that services return to them exactly the way I said it for a little while – trade, influence or assign jobs in a way that is not legal. You refused to adopt the law on public procurement proposed by the SNS. If you refuse this too, I wonder if anyone has the right to say that they want to fight every citizen in Serbia to live better? In the Public Procurement Act, you allow every new legal person to update the list of bidders to run on a playground called political competition. What are you doing in political life? You limit it by introducing a guarantee and introducing a series of restrictive rules for those who want to really affect the improvement of political life and climate in Serbia. I can't say that what your verbal advocates for the spirit of this law is translated into this law. But it has been translated into a very unusual and excessive authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which can come into a political party and seek accounting documentation without justification. Can an inspector come to your company, can someone knock on your door without saying if there's a reasonable doubt, the reason why it's coming? No, it occurred to them. This and such an agency, you have provided for this law, can get no less than, according to current budget amounts, eight and a half million dinars to hire not their employees that we finance from the budget, but some part-time experts and associates to check what you consider to be the most criminalised in this society, which is political parties. You say, no less than eight and a half million at this point. This does not mean that it cannot be ten times more, because the law says only “not less”. And the law doesn't say who determines? Is that exactly one percent of the 0.1% of the funding of the election campaign, or activities? No one says by what criteria. (President: Time. ) We will explain in detail to the citizens in the debate in detail why we do not want to vote in favour of such a law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55836	Thank you. The right to replica is Vice-President Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55837	The right to reply because of the comment of a respected colleague that I misread the argument – that the percentage of the allocation of the number for the parties is placed on the cost side of the budget. Of course it is, and I can only express a warm regret that, not doubting the knowledge of a respected colleague, only gives such an argument. I would use these two minutes to share with all of us and the citizens what that amount is actually and how the budget is formed. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is about nine billion euros and the revenue side and the spending side is in the deficit for about 120m euros. On the revenue side and on the spending side, we know on average exactly what the budget is spent on: 32% of the budget goes directly to pensions, because this is the missing part, 22.3% of the budget goes to the salaries of about 215,000 employees who are directly paid from the budget, 10% of the budgets are direct social policy measures, about 6% of the budget are various subsidies. Therefore, payments from the budget for the work of political parties can only be on the dispensary side. With the hope that the whole idea, it's not the first time I've heard it, to send a message that this percentage amount on the spending side is such that financing political parties is going to increase the deficit, that's what I'm talking about. Personalize the blame, but speak as a member of the political party for passing a law that will increase the deficit by financing the activities of all political parties is a new idea of political freedom in which we are all organised into political parties. Criticize without a cobweb, that's good for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55838	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55839	I know Mrs. Comić knows physics well, she speaks English very well, but to be clear, no one disputes the fact that funding of political parties is on the side of expenditures and that's how it is recorded. The point is that no expenditure side of the budget can be taken as the basis for the political parties' accounting, because the deficit is contained in the distribution side. We are in favour of funding from real sources, and the observation is that the basis, you will find it in our amendment to account for giving and donating to political parties, which is based on item 481 of item 160, must be calculated only on the basis of revenue, or this year's budget is 847 billion of public expenditure, and this will be the basis for the calculation under the current proposal, and what the budget revenues are is 726 billion dinars. Thus, 121 billion is a deficit, and it now serves as the basis on which funds for political parties will be allocated from mid next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55840	Vice-President Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55841	That's exactly what I'm talking about. That's not true. So the deficit doesn't serve as a basis. I'll remind you, and all, when the finance minister or the finance minister here is talking about expenditures and when he talks about revenue, which sentences and how he uses, when and where the budget deficit is. The balance of the budget, complete, which does not have any states, is that tax policies and tax fiscal policies pick up exactly the amount of public revenue, the amount of public expenditure. It's gone, nowhere in any country. And the fiscal policy by which we collect the revenue side, for various reasons, says what is the deficit on that side and how it will be reduced, by reducing expenditure. It's basic stuff when it comes to the budget. So, from very strong differences I asked for a replica, and I repeat, I can, don't promote the idea that funding political parties is an increase in deficits, because that's not true, because it doesn't benefit anyone who participates in Serbia's political life, he was the government, he was the opposition. It's that simple, if we want to know. I thank you for your patience and for your opportunity to respond with a replica. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55842	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, try to clarify whether, it seems to me, everyone stays with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55843	I just want to make it clear, so we don't have any disputes, although Mrs. Comic is gone. You see, why we're pushing for the revenue side to be the basis for funding political parties. This year, if political parties are financed on the basis of budget revenues, they will receive 544 million. If we introduced this funding for this year, we would pay the political parties a billion and 200 million. Don't tell me that's the same, it's absolutely 100% increase, apply it for this year, ask the former finance minister to calculate how much political parties will get under this law, according to this type of reckoning, and how much they would get by the same old law by the kind of bill that you propose by this law – the difference is 650 million dinars. Please, those 650 million dinars we've been borrowing to cover the budget deficit, to have for capital investments that we have for the corridor. The parties rub their hands as much as we owe more to the parties' money. Therefore, when you are done with the revenues on that basis, count the revenues of political parties. Not when you're done with expenses, you cover your expenses by borrowing from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55844	Thank you. The right of Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure was not used by Mrs. Hope Kolundji, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55845	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the ZES Group will vote in favour of this law, bearing first and foremost in mind the need for society to develop a political system, to promote a democratic society, to remove those shortcomings that are manifested as obvious in the transition process, at the same time creating good and favourable conditions for the existence and operation of political parties, as necessary assumptions in the multi-party parliamentary system. What is very important for the adoption of this law is the very process of passing this law, which has shown to a large extent that it may be best when we make laws by conducting consultations and conversations with all those who are interested, because then it is best to see if anyone has any delusions about something, whether someone has any resistance to something, whether someone sees a solution that when they exchange it with those who conduct it in practice can understand that this solution is not applicable. What is the motivation to pass this law is, above all, the need to establish, on the one hand, the law in which political actors will be financed in order to eliminate as much as possible, hardly possible in absolute terms, all those possibilities that carry elements of abuse, corruption or possible use of funds that are not in line with what is intended. We are here, therefore, in public having a debate that moves between two sexes and I think that responsibility for an atmosphere in which political parties are marked as the greatest source of evil, as something that is in itself bad, something that needs to be avoided and something to be overlooked, I think that a great responsibility is borne by representatives of some political parties. Some discussions here today confirm that this is the case. Therefore, some of those who spoke about it today have spoken as though they were pure compared to the fact that they themselves are members of political parties, that they themselves are bearers of many activities and that some of them are, in fact, probably from personal experience and knowing all the manipulations and abuses they have gone through, they need to accuse others of these abuses, believing, I suppose, that they will come out clean. What we have as a consequence of such a political atmosphere is the feeling of Serbian citizens that political parties are something that is bad and something that needs to be done, if it is possible to get out of their lives somehow. What I'm saying is that the development of a multi-party parliamentary system, as the best form of political regulation, is impossible to imagine without political parties. Anyone who attacks other political parties thinking that it will single themselves out as someone who is honorable and asks for the opportunity to present himself as someone who is absolutely without error I think that contributing to one state of consciousness in Serbia, in which we really have a serious problem for citizens to understand that political parties, even though they have flaws as well as other segments of society, are the ones who change this society better and are political parties exactly the ones that enable citizens to best coordinate the interests and build a society in which each individual will be better. All those who are strict critics of political parties forget one thing. Here, in this parliament, this law establishing order in the financing of political parties, establishing a mechanism to control the spending of funds, will bring political parties, not those who sit outside them and consider political parties to be the greatest evil. In order not to accuse others of a bad picture of political parties, I think it took those who are criticizing this law here today and some concrete solutions in this law to read the law a little more carefully, and to see that some of the solutions that are attacking are not in the law, that they actually exist very precisely in the law. Of course, I will not claim that there are no indeterminations in this law, that there are no shortcomings and that there are no even solutions that leave room for the arbitration interpretation of its implementation. And, in that sense, we will really very carefully consider all the amendments and we will very carefully accept all those amendments that will remove any doubt in our clear intention to pass a law that will best regulate this area, to adopt every amendment that will remove any possibility of interpreting the same norm in different ways. We will remove, by accepting the amendment, any possibility that leaves room for possible abuses. We will see whether they will then appear at the vote and vote for such a law those who consider it not European enough, because they would know how to make a European law. We'll see if those who didn't read it well will vote for it, so they're criticizing it, not knowing exactly what it says. I hope that by the day of voting, they will read the law and see which amendments we have defined ourselves and accept that our political will is to pass a law that will, on the one hand, regulate this very important area, and, on the other hand, remove as many of those areas where abuse, corruption, etc. is possible. At the same time, there's something else I want to say. So, in this general hajaj, political parties are slowly transferred to those who are ready to finance political parties and thus automatically place a sign of equality between a natural or legal person who wants to help the political party and the personal interest that he expects to gain from it. I believe deeply and think that years have proved to us that there are people who truly believe in ideas, people who believe that the realization of these ideas brings well-being to them as individuals, but also to society as a whole. I think it's inadmissible to call people who are willing to make their contribution to such ideas and to realize the possibility of such ideas coming true and mark them as someone who does it out of personal interest. Of course everyone in this country has a personal interest. Anyone who goes to the polls has a personal interest in living better in a normal country where he will not be guided by those who will threaten him daily or put him in a position to be threatened. Of course it's a personal interest. Of course, the personal interest of anyone who decides to be a member of the political party and to contribute to the achievement of this idea and general interest by their engagement, by their knowledge, skills and skill. The only question here is, are we able to put the general interest first by this law? If we have managed to put in the right place a general interest, the interest of all citizens making sure that political parties are necessary in order to achieve this general interest, but that political parties must have a clear space in which they operate, then we have succeeded. I believe that this law is a huge step in that direction, although I also believe that, like other laws, it may in its practice point to something that we haven't seen now, but the laws aren't written once and for all, and I think that life is every day and checking them out and asking them to change in accordance with what life imposes as a need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55846	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, and no one wants a word in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Colakovic. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55847	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, the PUPS will vote in favour of the bill and just a few sentences as to why. First of all, we participated in three public discussions of professional, political, which were organised by the writers of this law and contributed to the suggestions and suggestions that we thought were good. We are grateful that the promoters of some of our suggestions have accepted. Secondly, about a year and a half ago, we passed the Law on political parties and we see that the political scene in Serbia is serious. We have results, since there were over 600 political parties and parties, now we have 80 registered, that it works differently in a better, more organised way and in the interests of citizens. In this regard, we think that this law contributes as a continuation of the regulation of these overall relations, contributing to the best way to regulate the political scene in our country. I must also say that I am surprised that, if I recall correctly, only three political parties from this House participated in these public debates. The amendments I've been able to read today, both positions and opposition, show that there are good suggestions and suggestions. The question arises, why didn't we all participate in this together at the beginning? Why aren't those solutions already in the bill? That would be a contribution to making this law better. And that today we discuss this law and promote it in the best possible way, based on the agreements we have reached in the public debate in the previous procedure before the debate in parliament. I can say the same thing when there was public listening, a new institute in our parliament, that only five political groups from parliament participated in it. That's why I don't understand why we don't participate, if we've defined ourselves, all political parties, and if we want the laws to be right, to make contributions and to promote here at the plenary session what we've been defined for in lawmaking. And, third thing we're going to vote for, we think it's good that parliament provides its control function with more hearing, more attention and more work. In this respect, I expect the regulatory bodies that we have chosen in this Parliament, but also from the committee and this Parliament as a whole, to follow these reports in plenary sessions as well as how this is done. In this respect, the PUPS will contribute to the proper implementation of the law that we adopt and therefore we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-07-0.u55848	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We'll continue our work tomorrow, 10:00 p.m. I thank you for your participation in the discussion. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To correctly determine the quorum, please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are 86 MPs in the hall, or there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by the Members of the People: Milisav Petronijevic and Laszlo Varga. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, apart from the representatives of the motionary Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Sulejman Ugljanin, the minister without portfolio, I have called for the present session to be attended by Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Accizes You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Finance Committee. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour; United Regions of Serbia MP group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 24 minutes; SPS-JS-18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, representatives of the parliamentary groups will be: MP Sinisa Stamenković – PUPS Parliament Group; MP Zoran Kasalović – MEP SPS-JS Group; MP Veroljub Arsic – MP Group Advanced Serbia; MP Dragan Stevanović – SRS MP. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft Act amending the Excise Act. I'm taking a break until 11:00, because it takes a proposing representative to be here.
