ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52762	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I called for this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy His Excellency Mr Stefan File. I ask the MPs not to interfere with the work. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and my own name, Mr. Vensan Dežer, Ambassador of the EU Delegation to the Republic of Serbia; Ms. Jana Lolic Schindlekova, Deputy Chief of the Office of Enlargement; Ms. Mirjam Verge, Head of the Department for Serbia at the Directorate for Enlargement; Mr. Alberto Kamarat, Head of the Department for Economics and European Integration; Mr. Thomas Njoki, First Secretary and Head of the Political Department of the EU Delegation in the Republic of Serbia; Ms. Luca Kadar, second secretary in charge of Information and Communication, and Mr. Alexander Djoki, Media Advisor. I also called for today's session to be attended by the ambassadors of EU member states: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the ambassadors, who follow the session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. I would like to ask His Excellency Mr. Stefan Phil, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and the European Neighbourhood Policy, to take his word. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Phil.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52763	Madam President, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to speak to you today. I accepted this call as a special honor and as an indicator of the importance Serbia attaches to its European future. The year 2011 is a year of major enlargement policy opportunities for the entire Western Balkans region, especially for Serbia. [[Applause]] Important symbolic steps have recently been made towards reconciliation, such as the adoption of the Srebrenica Declaration or the meeting of your and Croatian president in Vukovar. I could hear a lot about enlargement fatigue. For me, however, it is a myth, like a myth about Yeti – it is often spoken of, but no one has seen it. Let's fight this bribe, let's fight reforms, which will bring good to the people and that will bring Serbia closer to the EU. However, the accession process is not easy and comfortable driving. A broad consensus on key strategic objectives and laws is needed, and Parliament is the very institution in which an inclusive dialogue between political parties will take place. Discussions on the European Union are essential. Dear MPs, the opinion on Serbia's request for EU membership is an opportunity to move forward in the accession process. It is in our common interest to see that Serbia becomes one positive, good news in the field of enlargement in 2011. That would be good news for Serbia, good news for the region and good news for the EU. The European Union has shown it wants closer ties with Serbia. Ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is progressing at high speed. The agreement has already been ratified by the European Parliament and two-thirds of the Member States. The transitional agreement consolidates trade and economic exchange between the EU and Serbia. Last year, exports from Serbia to the EU rose by 32%, while imports increased by 8%. This is extremely important for post-crisis recovery. When it comes to the European Commission's opinion, it represents a perfect opportunity to move to the next stage, essential in a symbolic sense, which is possible candidate status, perhaps even a date for the start of negotiations. Why is that? Because enlargement policy is credible. You are the ones who are implementing reforms, and the EU is responding adequately to the progress you have made. That opportunity shows you this year. The commission is here to direct you and help you. We've given you a map of the road, our latest progress report that determines the key, priority areas that your government has put into its action plan, which you now need to realise and focus on. All of them are equally important to obtain a positive opinion. So let me just short-list them. The first priority is judicial reform, and it will end up in line with European standards. Not because it requires the EU, but because Serbian citizens deserve an effective, independent and impartial judiciary, which will be able to effectively fight corruption and organised crime, while guaranteeing a stable and predictable business environment for both domestic and foreign investors. We appreciate the early start of this reform, even before the opening of the negotiations on your membership. However, there were many shortcomings, which are now gradually being removed. The solution is in a two-stage approach. One choice is the regular composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and then it is particularly important for both bodies to consider a detailed review of the re-election process on the basis of clear and transparent criteria and instructions. The first stage was successfully brought to an end. Now you need to move on to an effective review, or re-election analysis. There is no time to waste, we need solid proof of the effect before we announce the Commission's thinking. When it comes to efficiency, the rationalization of courts is what needs to produce results. Legislative changes are also expected when it comes to criminal and litigation laws, because we know that slow justice is the same as lack of justice. Another key priority is the fight against organised crime and corruption. It is a challenge for the whole region and no one can afford to be satisfied, neither the EU nor your country, as this problem undermines the foundations of every democracy. Serbia has already begun to deal with this problem. You've strengthened your legal framework, now you're working on its application. However, we need much more. First, the legal framework should be fully formed. There must be no gray zones that will allow inappropriate influences and illegal activities. You need to adopt a law on the financing of political parties in line with EU standards, taking into account the recommendations made by the Venice Council of Europe Commission, adopted last week. Also, you need to adopt a new anti-corruption strategy, along with an action plan, which will be clear on deadlines, competent bodies and financial resources. Particular attention should be paid to public procurement, so that it is implemented in accordance with EU standards, given that this area is highly vulnerable to corruption. Secondly, you must provide full political and financial support to the institutions responsible for law enforcement. You must increase the amount of funds these institutions have available to carry out the investigations. It is very important to improve their coordination, whether it is between the police and the prosecution or customs and the tax administration. They must exchange information, guarantee witness protection and whistle whistles, alarmers, and report any suspicious behavior. These are just some of the examples I'd like to give this opportunity. Finally, show the efficiency of the system through a credible record of the number of open investigations and judicial judgments. Simply put, you have to declare war on organised crime and corruption without any tolerance, so no one stays above the law. It's not an easy task. It requires strong political will and active regional co-operation. Mostly you have all the resources you need, now is the time to apply them. The third key priority is to change electoral legislation, as a basis for transparent democracy. Your Honor, Madam President, I welcome your involvement in the preparation of this bill. We trust that you will now take action to revise the draft based on the opinion of the Venice Commission. There are two key issues in this context: a) Blanco resignations, which mean party control over the mandates of MPs. This issue has already been the subject of a number of debates and has been concluded – the blank resignations should be abolished. ( b) It takes a lot of respect and order of candidates on the entire election list. This is one of the basic principles of democracy and a key European standard. Citizens must choose their representatives freely, as well as to know who they vote for. There's no room for political party decisions after the election. The fourth key issue is the need to ensure adequate functioning of independent regulatory bodies. It is also a matter of fundamental importance for a transparent democracy. Madam President, allow me once again to commend your personal contribution to resolving this issue in the light of recent amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The revision of the Rules of Procedure is a step we welcome and democratic control should move forward. Particular attention should now be paid to adequate application, and it implies, above all, a more transparent procedure for the appointment of members of these bodies within the deadlines set and full attention to their reports, with respect for their independence. The fifth key issue is that it is necessary to determine the legal uncertainty and security of property rights, which is the essential factor for a favourable business environment. We need to see this process immediately. The sixth priority is to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. All institutions should be particularly alert to monitor respect for human rights and protection of minority rights, including particularly sensitive groups such as Roma. Awakening attention is also the key when it comes to other rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression, protection of journalists or the rights of prisoners. Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, I have listed some of the most urgent internal reforms Serbia should implement in the next few weeks and months. They are urgent because they provide functional democracy and represent what we call political criteria. Let me be clear. Fulfilling the political criteria is essential for obtaining a positive opinion, as any country applying for membership must show that it is a functional democracy so that the Commission can recommend opening EU accession negotiations. However, there are other issues of vital importance, which I also want to talk about. Let me call it priority seven. Recent steps towards final reconciliation create a positive perception of Serbia within the EU. The most important factor for the preservation of this perception is the development of regional co-operation developments in Kosovo as well. In this regard, we appreciate the positive spirit in which Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue is launched and we hope that both sides will draw the best solution from this new impulse. We want to quickly see positive steps in meeting the practical needs of all people living in Kosovo. But let's not forget other regional issues. Specific efforts should be made to find sustainable solutions for the inclusion of refugees and internally displaced persons. The new momentum of the Sarajevo process is an encouraging step when it comes to refugees. Twenty years after the start of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, this chapter should finally be closed. As priority eight, I'll mention the following. Reconciliation won't be complete until justice is done for everyone. Full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague is not just an international obligation. This is a moral obligation, for it is necessary to provide justice to the victims and relatives of the victims and to achieve long - term and sincere reconciliation. Co-operation with the International Tribunal in The Hague will be of key importance for conclusions within the framework of the opinion, as well as for a decision by the 27 member states. I am fully aware of my strong attachment to solving this issue at the highest level. I sincerely hope it will lead to results in the very near future. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, by sharing with you my view of the key challenges we face, I wanted to actually convey a very simple message. The situation is not easy, especially when you have to solve so many issues in such a short time. But we really believe that you can accomplish it. You're not alone in that effort. We are here to offer you our expertise, financial support and guidance. In one word, we cross that path along with you. This is our joint strategic project for Serbia's arrival where it belongs, in the EU's family. That goal is real and reach for your hands. There's no room for doubt, only for energy and action. This is the reality of European integration. That's the reality we want to share with you. Please allow us to open the next door on our way to the EU at the end of this year. Let's open that door together. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52764	Thank you very much, Mr. Phil. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank Mr. Stefan Phil on your behalf. I conclude the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. At the same time, I remind you that at 13.00 hours we will continue to work on the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2011, by searching the details of the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments for 2011. Thank you. (The session was closed at 12.05 pm. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52765	THE FIRST SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION ON 29 March 2011 (day 12 of work) (The session began at 13.10 p.m. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52766	We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I would like to ask you to insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 94 MPs in the hall and that there are conditions necessary for work. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays after the opening session, it will run on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the first sentence: “The MP shall have the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other Republic bodies and organisations on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he shall need to exercise the function of the National Assembly,” and Article 2nd, paragraph 2 of Article 286 shows: “Excludingly, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right to take part in the session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for a period of up to five minutes, on Tuesday and Thursday, following the opening of the session and setting up of the number of Members of the Members attendings who attend the sitting, and the transition to a further debate.” Please sign in if you want a word. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52767	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the basis of amendments and additions to the law on parliamentary elections for minority parties, were allowed to participate independently in the 2007 and 2008 elections, with the difference that minority lists could have supported 3,000 voters in 2007 but in the next elections in 2008, according to the Constitutional Court's interpretation, 10,000 signatures were necessary. And without some deeper analysis, it is clear that this is too much, because, apart from the electoral lists of Hungarians and Bosniaks in all other minorities, it is a matter of providing participation with one representative, for which about 14,000 votes are required. For this capacity from one MP and 14,000 votes to secure signatures in front of court officials or other municipal authorities, this requires not only activities, but also considerable financial and material costs. In some minorities, it's almost inexhaustible. So now it's time for us to see in this pre-election year what are the opportunities to address this problem with the corresponding changes and additions. I would like to point this out a great deal as a question of the President of the Assembly – what are the possibilities for the Parliament's working bodies, in the preparation of amendments and additions to this law, in the part of the mandate, to address in general the problem of the blank resignations, the parallel solution and the issue, to allow those 3,000 signatures of support, which was made possible by the interpretation of the Republic Election Commission, which was subsequently declared incompetent to solve the problem? Since the Assembly should do so with amendments and additions, I point to this problem, it is likely that the most competent speaker of the assembly is, in coordination with the working groups of parliament, to solve this, in my opinion, sensitive problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52768	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52769	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transfer, I will try to comment on the two responses I received within the time period and I commend Minister Markovic and new Minister of Health Stankovic. My first question to which I received my answer was regarding the spending of funds in the King, after the disaster of the King. I got one answer I can't believe I got. The minister, who is presented in the press and the public as the main man, the co-ordinator for the King, says he does not know the data on the funds spent, about some burning offices, but will ask the mayor, so when the mayor sends it, and when the minister finds out how much money was spent in the King, he will answer the MP Markicevic. I'm saying all this because we at the New Serbia Parliament Club and some municipal and city committees get dozens of letters from disgruntled citizens, although I will honestly say that they will never be able to be satisfied, and they are not satisfied with their treatment with the authorities. Therefore, I expect Minister Markovic's reply very quickly, although it is unclear to me that he has no data on how much funds were collected, in which way they were spent in the restoration of the Kings. The second question is the already-known question I ask about the burning hospital "Dr Dragisa Misovic" in Belgrade. I want to commend Mr. Stankovic's health minister from this place. He's a general, as I said. I've never received such a detailed answer before. Why should I report again on this response, since the classical response from this can be concluded, that the investigation is ongoing, that in this report, which Minister Stankovic sent me as a MP... I don't know if other colleagues from other parliamentary groups are getting these answers or just getting a personal MP who asked, so I have to draw attention to one thing: I've heard so far that there's been a report of a false bombing in many schools and bridges, but I haven't heard that there have been reports of a bomb being planted in one hospital. I ask all the media and all the ministries in charge of this -- why did they hide this fact from Serbian citizens? I'm reading part of Minister Stankovic's report. The report noted that on the same day, at 22.49 p.m., it was, therefore, minutes after the start of the fire, n.e.c. A man from that and that number reported that a bomb was planted at the KBC "Dr Dragisa Misovic". Furthermore, from this very exhaustive report by Mr. Stankovic, I will read only the last sentence, which says: "The amount of heat that is released would be enough to set fire to the wooden structure." So tens of millions of euros were spent on one hospital, to renovate, rebuild, and eventually we have a wooden structure. I don't think citizens make wooden construction in garages for the oldest cars, let alone the hospital. Therefore, I will continue to insist on this issue, although I have received an exhaustive answer, as Minister Stankovic is very nearly in office and I thank him for that. As the Chachanin who is bound, and all of us Chacans, even though I am not left-handed, are on the contrary... The man was a communist and leftist, but a great humanist and a great man, Dr Dragisa Misovic. I'll tell you one thing: in the history of the town of Cačka, when he died (as history says he was killed), only one funeral was bigger when the Duke Stepanović was buried. That tells you what kind of man Dr Dragisa Misovic was. We citizens and taxpayers, and that man, and we MPs don't deserve not to know the real truth. It's been too many months since it's been known that it's been officially said -- that's what happened, and almost, who likes the answer, but everything is round and round. I don't think I should remind you all that after some time, there was a hospital in Sremska Mitrovica, or there was a fire. For her, we have no record of what happened, and I ask that Minister Stankovic, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic and everyone in charge of this area give more precise answers to me as a national MP and all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52770	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52771	The Honorable Chairman, fellow ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns the Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society of Mr Predrag Markovic. In short, I want to ask if there are censorships in Serbia? Is state and national interest objective information, are state and national interests free media and how many are protected by the competent ministry and how much is the government of the Republic of Serbia protecting them in general? I have to give a few examples of how there are censorships in Serbia. We were witnesses here, in this room of the Serbian parliament, when Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac publicly told all Serbian citizens that he had personally called the phone of the chief and responsible editor of "Politika" Mr. Dragan Bujosevic, dissatisfied with writing, dissatisfied with one text. The public kept quiet, the authorities kept quiet, the pressure on media freedom was enormous. Furthermore, we are witnessing that a cleanup was carried out in the NIN, a weekly who spent decades studying social, political and cultural developments in Serbia. Journalists Nikola Vrzic, Ruza Cirkovic were expelled, while winning the award as the best journalist in Serbia, Petar Igna, Gorislav Papic and others. I must mention in this place, and Slobodan Reljić, who for seven years, the longest in the history of NIN, was the editor-in-chief of this weekly. Furthermore, in Serbia, it is allowed that on one television with a national frequency, we talk about TV B92, active participation takes the face off Interpol's warrant, I am talking about Stanko Sobotić Canet. The Serbian government has never once answered the question of how it is possible that someone for whom Interpol's arrest warrant has been called freely is speaking freely and trying to create public opinion in Serbia. Furthermore, I will remind you of political prisoner Raj Rodic, who owns the daily list "Kurr", who has been in prison for a year and a half, for who knows what reasons, and in fact only for one—he wrote about what power cannot agree with. The drop that spilled the glass, in my opinion personally, is the ban and abolition of the "Atlantis" show on Radio Belgrade's Second Programme. Bruca and the shame of this parliament is that two of our colleagues, two MPs – I am talking about Mr. Zeljko Ivanji and Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic, who are on the Serbian Radio-Television Programme Committee, even Dragoljub Micunovic and the president of the programme board – gave the opinion that the show is bad, that it affects the Serbian public badly. I must point out that on that show as rarely where we can hear the greatest intellectuals of today, such as Noam Chomsky, Edward Herman, Diana Johnston, or the ideas of Boris Pekic, who was sworn in by this Dragoljub Micunovic. Mr. Micunovic, as chairman of the Programme Council, said the show "Atlantis" on the Second Radio Belgrade Programme was not abolished because of the Programme Committee, but was done by the Management Board and the editorship of Radio Belgrade, quote. To deny it, academician Niksa Stipcevic, chairman of the RTS Management Board, said he was not informed of this change and knew nothing about it, and that the decision to cancel the show must be made on a proposal from the Programme Committee. The programming board didn't make that proposal. Someone here isn't telling the truth. I'm still asking, is every show that doesn't share the government's Eurofanatism not like it and therefore has to be downloaded from the programme? Why doesn't the government go out to the citizens and tell them the reasons for cancelling the show? Because citizens pay with their subscription and finance Radio Belgrade. Is this censorship, which is not the first, with a bunch of fired journalists and controlled media, is that all that remains of the democratic party and is the ban "Atlantis" all that remains of the human rights of Dragoljub Micunovic, who himself claims to have represented them? Does this mean that the government's strategy to provide people with work and bread is compensated by bans, lies and repression, whose blade includes Vojislav Kostunica, and the DSS and one show that served Radio Belgrade proudly, and is it waiting for the whole people of Serbia tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52772	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52773	I'd like to ask the Minister of Health and ask why the Ministry of Health is not doing anything to normalize the situation at Gjilana Health Center. I am taking the opportunity to inform the public that this facility is in a kind of blockade, that patients, Serbs, Gorans, Roma and those we call non-Albanians, from Kosovo Pomorava, have about 30,000, cannot receive even the most basic medical services. For a long time, there have been no basic medications, including penicillin, gentamicin, vaccine, no syringes, no gauze. Although the Ministry of Health has been notified several times by doctors who are employed in this facility, concrete moves to normalise the situation and provide at least the most basic health care for the population have simply lag behind. I cannot accept, and neither can the citizens who live there, that it is possible to justify such a blockade and the situation in this institution that, according to the information we have, on 9 February the secretary of Gjilana Health Centre Slavoljub Mitić was arrested at the administrative crossing of Končulj under suspicion that he had been involved in the smuggling of medicines intended for the Health Center. The man is in custody for 50 days, as we have been informed, and the director, who refuses to respond to calls for questioning, uses the fact that the authorities are using the fact that she is inaccessible to the police and judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to know why the Ministry of Health and the rest of the department's jurisdiction towards this Mrs. Jelica Krčmarevic, who has been called for because she is not responding to calls from the Court of Justice of Vranje on suspicion that she has something to do with this smuggling... Why is it not a separate part of the job as a judicial procedure from what is called the basic human rights to treat those who still live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Will the intentional or accidental consequence of such negligence and non-region of the store be leaving the territory, and then we will say – what, now, are the facts? I ask the Ministry of Health, the judicial authorities and all others to take this situation seriously and to take measures to ensure that what we all advocate, which is the right to life and the right to protection of health, is also provided for the citizens of Gjilan and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52774	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education what will he do about the dean of the Faculty of Law and the Science and Educational Council of the Faculty of Law being given an initiative to take away the doctoral dissertation of Gashi Knezevic? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, you had a chance to hear about the German Defence Minister's problem some time ago, who was also deprived of his doctoral title. It's Karl Theodore Cu Gutenberg, who plagiarized his doctoral dissertation. The university where he got his doctoral dissertation didn't wait a moment to check out those allegations. When they checked the allegations, they took away the current minister's doctoral title and he had to resign for that reason. Among other things, I'd like to read here how a serious state applies when it comes to this sort of thing. It says – the literal takeover of parts of the text according to the meaning of the original part without sufficient labelling of the source is contrary to the attitudes of practice, the basic principles of scientific work and excludes by the rule of acceptance of one work as a doctoral dissertation. If such shortcomings are shown only later, the title of Doctor of Science can be taken away on the basis of Article 48. The law on administrative procedure. Let me remind you why this is important. Because Gašo Knezevic was the current minister of education at the time the DOS came to power; Gašo Knezevic is the image of the informant, he is the personification of DOS and this best shows who they are and what they are in 2001, or after October 5th, they came to power. Here we remember two people who mutilated our country's education system: one is Stipe Shuvar, famous, and the other is Gašo Knezevic. That's absolutely obvious. You know how much he stood for introducing "The Bologna" and literally mutilated our youth. But you can't expect anything better from the man who prescribed the doctoral dissertation. If you try to find out what Gašo Knezevic has written in his scientific opus for the past 23 years, you will only get two titles: one is "International Private Law" and the other is "The Manual for exams". That's what a law professor in 23 years managed to write. No wonder, when he prescribed it, he literally prescribed it, his doctoral dissertation. He's prescribed by two authors... Mrs. Pesic, you should have informed yourself on time. In addition, it was necessary to inform the commission before which Gašo Knezevic was placed, i.e. received a doctoral dissertation. Based on the sources he listed, they should have seen what size it was and whether it was an original scientific work at all, or whether it was a complete plagiarism. Here, if that's true, I'll paint you. On this right side is the work of Gaša Knezevic, and on the left side is the source. Underline is what Gašo Knezevic prescribed. If you look, you will see that Gašo Knezevic overwrited almost everything, from "a" to "s". I wish he could have written something of his own. No, he took and prescribed his entire doctoral dissertation. This can't be tolerated. The law school would have to react. I know, Mrs. Pesic, that you now find it very difficult and problematic, because in your ranks you had an intellectual thief, because whoever plagiarizes, he steals other people's intellectual work, I understand that dissatisfaction, but don't express it in this way. First of all, you need to deal with the problem with Gash Knezevic. (President: Please do not address the other MPs directly. ) Therefore, I ask the Ministry of Education and the Minister to respond urgently and to bring this case to an end as soon as possible, because it is immoral for the professor who prescribed... (President: 5 minutes and 20 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Doctoral dissertation teaches students. It's really out of your mind. And if it's DOS, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52776	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. I ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to be violated or addressed directly to other Members of the People, in particular that they do not abuse the right set out in Article 286. MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52777	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the 2006 law turned twenty-half of the remaining pensions into public debt and the payment dynamics were agreed. According to one pensioner, it was then an amount of about 83,000 dinars, with the obligation of the state to account at an annual level at an interest rate of 8.5%. The Serbian Renewal Movement knows that the 2011 budget envisions the payment of the last, fourth installment of the debt. It is an amount of 27,000 dinars per pensioner, but given the difficult position of agriculture and agricultural pensioners and our programme importance that we give... (President: I ask MP Momir Markovic not to interfere with the work of the session, not to throw it out of the bench and not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me, MP, continue. )The Serbian Renewal Movement wants to question the Republic Fund for PIO, as it announced that a debt would be paid in the next three months. It's about 200,000 agricultural pensioners. Since we, as MPs, are daily getting this kind of question from those who expect to be paid back, I want to ask the Republic Fund for PIO – when can agricultural pensioners expect to pay off part four of the war, or the last installment of agricultural pensions?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52778	Does any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Konstantin Samofalov. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by representatives of promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, and Dragan Vukmirovic, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute and Zoran Jančić and Miroslav Jankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Milorad Buha, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Sreto Perić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. To remind the MPs that representatives for the 4, 5 and 6th agenda are authorised: MP Siniša Stamenković (legal representative of the PUPS Group), MP Zoran Bortic (Salanica Group SPS - JS), MP Milica Radovic (Salanica Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica), MP Zoran Babic (Slanica Group Advanced Serbia), MP Milorad Buha (SRS). If there is a change in the names of the MPs who are authorised representatives, please inform us of this so that we can inform the National Assembly. I remind you of the time available for the authorised representative, i.e. the president of the parliamentary group and the time available to the parliamentary groups, for a total of five hours, as well as two minutes per amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52779	Ladies and gentlemen of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment and requested that the provision of this member be deleted and that we return to the basic law under which the census was to be carried out on 1 April 2011. The government's reasoning for refusal is that there are no financial assets in the first quarter, i.e. the beginning of the second quarter for these jobs, and this has been moved by the tenth month. In agriculture, it's been moved for a year and a half, I don't think that's acceptable. The position of the Serbian Radical Party in adopting the basic law on the census and agriculture was that in one list, when the censuser comes to a farm, whether to do all that is important in the aspect of the list of people, households and agriculture. What's important to stress is that this list is very important. However, in the means of information we can get, especially from the point of view of the government, certain information that it is a historical list and that it will solve something. The opinion of the Serbian Radical Party is that it is not a historical list, it is a list of continuity. Every ten years it is done and it has some importance, especially it will have meaning in terms of improving the relations and lives and the work of Serbs in the region, including in the diaspora, but we do not have to create a famu. It's a regular list every ten years, and as such it should give certain results. What is important to stress is that in practice certain countries have not been working lately, because there is no need. Our institutions, the state institutions dealing with this problem, would, in fact, have to propose a certain law that would take over certain issues in terms of summing up all data necessary for the integration of all data necessary for the census. In the era of computerization, in the era of systematic collection of certain data it would be necessary for these state authorities that have certain files with data entering the list... that they are, as such, summed up at the Bureau of Statistics and that we do not have a list in fact, and that we get from certain state authorities all of what they lead as their internal data that will be included in certain system data that will serve as well as these census data. In addition, it is important to strengthen the statistical authority. In direct contacts and through the Committee on Science and Technological Development and through the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, we have received some information on the reduction of the number of workers in this statistical body of republican importance. I think it's bad in the period when we enter into harmonisation of regulations, in harmonising certain rules, in certain systems, in taking over certain ingerities, in particular the Republic's body, and in creating a data file on different conditions, in ways of collecting the data itself of importance to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to stress that the Republic of Serbia has started, in particular some state authorities have gone more seriously in preparation for this census in 2010, but without money; we must stress this because we have received such data. On the other hand, certain data are also collected during the preparation itself, which also causes certain financial expenditure from these state authorities, and the question is how much this will create problems for the list itself to the body implementing the regulation and all institutions participating in this list. On several committees where I was present, a special accent was placed on the list of Serbs in the region. It is very important from the aspect of national rights that Serbs are achieving in these countries, from cultural aspects, aspects of human rights and certain discrimination, the assimilation of our population, marginalisation in certain countries such as Croatia, Macedonia and some other countries. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not take sufficient action to show these countries to discrimination that is evident, which is present and all the problems that Serbs have in those countries. The Committee on Serbs outside Serbia considered a number of information, given that Committee representatives go to countries in the region, collect these data, deliver to state institutions and seek certain activities of state authorities, but the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not take measures or activities in terms of reducing discrimination in countries and regions, and in particular the case in the Republic of Croatia. I'll give you an example of how this is done in relation to the Serbian issue. President Tadic held a meeting here in November, talking with representatives of Serbs from the region, from the diaspora, on a census to be held in almost all countries of the world, on conditions and the way of the census. It was a very good meeting. It is normal to hold such meetings, however, which came from the environment, mostly from Montenegro and Croatia, were drastic, in terms of condemnation of such a meeting. The Croatian press openly attacked President Tadic to continue Slobodan Milosevic's policy, that it is a new kind of Nazism that conducts Serbian leadership. The state authorities kept quiet about it. The Serbian public kept quiet about it. We can't keep our mouths shut. A perfectly normal civilization meeting on how to list the population, deal with Serbs in the region and in the diaspora, which will also be covered by the census. Such a conviction, it's an unacceptable diplomatic gesture by a single state. A similar situation was with Montenegro. After all this, all these criticisms and diplomatic notes that came from Montenegro, we changed, when I say to me about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a strategy on how to preserve and strengthen the country's relations with Serbs in the region and the diaspora. We have changed a certain text of the target or desired structure and position of Serbs in the region, referring to the return... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52780	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52781	This is the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52782	I listen very carefully to you for eight minutes and forty seconds; you have spent six minutes on the time of the authorised representative and two minutes on the amendment, and I ask you to continue to spend the time you have at your disposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52783	It is a list that will cover how Serbs who have received citizenship here, who currently or permanently live in the Republic of Croatia, BiH or Montenegro... When a list is made in Montenegro on 1 April or in Croatia on 1 April...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52784	National MP, there is a law on the agenda that is in charge of the Republic of Serbia and the amendment that you have proposed to delete. So, please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52785	I'm back on the agenda, and I'm always on the agenda. It is this: that one of these same people who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be listed here as refugees, will be listed on October 1st. In the same situation they can be found in the Republic of Croatia, they will be listed as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm speaking from that point of view. I'm speaking from the aspect of the situation of the refugee population that will be listed here. Let me just say some of the information I've collected for this session. According to the 1996 UNHCR Refugees and Commissioners, they were listed, so they had no status as Serbian citizens, 538,000 refugees and a war on people at risk. It's such a legal term, used in 1996. At that time, there were over 80,000 of those persons with a war of endangered areas. A total of 618,000 faces. According to a census conducted together with UNHCR in 2001, the figure fell from 618,000 to 452,000; in 2005, the figure fell to 141,000. What is the fate of the refugee population? They're simply integrated. However, part of that population went to Croatia, part of that population lives permanently in Croatia, moves here, etc. From the point of view of the list, where will they find the 1.04? If they are Croatia, they will probably be listed there. The moment the censusors come to his home, he finds himself in his house or in his apartment, when a list is made in the Republic of Serbia, he will also be listed here. It is not disputed to list there and here, but it is disputed that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not have accurate information on the number of refugees, internally displaced persons. We don't have data on the number of diaspora, we don't have data on the dead in this war, we don't have data on the dead in that war. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I have referred several parliamentary questions and asked the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to find the funds and to permanently list every fugitive, every internally displaced person, and to have an orderly record, to make an effort to write down the diaspora. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia come out with data that we are abroad three million, four million, even six million. How do we make a strategy for these people when we don't know how many there are, when it's up to almost 50% of what we officially have? Each state is trying to list each of its residents, to keep them in its own records, and to know what it does abroad, what its income is, what its incomes are, which will separate for its family here in Serbia and make certain calculations based on these data. We don't have that information. The Serbian Radical Party is asking and urging the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to make a final effort in the financial sense to list all evasive persons, all internally displaced persons and the overall diaspora. That's not a lot of money, I'm telling you. One moment when the censuser comes to the house or apartment, a special list will be held internally, on a special refugee list. The first question will be, when that basic list is finished, do you have someone in your family who escaped in 1991 or 1999, meaning internally displaced persons, etc? That's about five or ten more minutes, not anymore. It's a nice opportunity to make a neat record. We don't have it. You see from this data I read, we have no record of how many refugees from the Republic of Croatia, from BiH, from Slovenia, came from the Republic of Serbia. We don't have them. Now I'm going to read you another piece of information I got from the MUP. 881,000 citizenship solutions have been issued since 1990. We're talking 618,000 registered refugees here. Then how's the 881,000? How does that information come up? What does that mean? That's 270,000. Most people get citizenship, where did those faces come from? You know where those faces came from. Those faces have been coming in since 1990, before the war, and they've been getting IDs without citizenship. They're not even registered as refugees. It is over 50,000 Serbs who fled Slovenia, especially from the Republic of Croatia. The persons who came after "Blash" and "Storms", about 80,000 came from Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem, and also at a later stage did not get refugee status, and they received citizenship, etc., and they fled. The fact is, they're refugees. Whether it is crucial in 1995, 1996, or 1998, it is absolutely irrelevant. Discrimination, assimilation of Serbian living and terror in Croatia, BiH and Slovenia brought them here. We have to write them down. Without a permanent list, not only of these persons, but also of their property, property, social and all other rights, we will lose the essence and purpose of this list and of all other lists. We don't know what terror was done against the Serbs if we don't have their information. We don't have them. The state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, I say responsibly, do not have that information. They have no suspiciously presented information on all those who have left the areas that were once Serbian and we do not have an orderly record. What's even more tragic is that now, in the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, we have no record of the dead in the last war, in NATO bombing. Go now to the sites of the MUP, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, etc. And you'll see: the dead soldiers 1.160, 1,200 civilians; the second is 800 civilians and 1,100 soldiers, and so many police officers, etc. Every data on the sites is different. When it tries to get together and subtract, we can't get the right data. That was eleven years ago. If we don't have that information, what are we talking about? When we enter the Austrian archives today – so many fighters participated in the Mohaška Battle, and so many on the Turkish side... (President: National MP, I warn you, the list refers to the people and the living people who live in Serbia. This is no longer a matter of breaking the Rules of Procedure, but a question of good taste. Now I warn you to talk about the agenda. There's just one more thing about the list of farms. It is important to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture started to develop a strategy on the development of agriculture two years ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52786	People's MP, it's not on the agenda for a list of the agricultural population. Please don't throw it away. Just because it's right behind this, it's an argument that he's not talking about the agenda now, which obliges me to make warnings and punish. Please don't disrespect the seriousness of the subject we're dealing with. So, please, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52787	I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52788	The total time was 17 minutes, of which two minutes for the amendment and the time used for the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger of Pai Boys. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Milica Radovic has a word and National MP Paja Momchilov has a word. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Milica Radovic has been reported, so she has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52789	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as I spoke and in the principle debate, I think it is important that the list be carried out as soon as possible, even if it is six months late. But I have reason to doubt that even then it will be possible, for the simple reason that it is clear, and that is also the draft law in this proposal and wrote, that the funds for its funding are missing. If the implementation of this law, as it says here, is not necessary to provide additional resources, it says in the bill, and if we know that only part of the funds is provided from EU donations, which will be available to Serbia in September 2011, then the question is, as a matter of fact, how is it possible for the government to even finance such a large venture, i.e. a list? To even more easily ask the question – how is it possible that the funds provided for the census are missing in the budget? Where are they spent? Are they spent on increasing employment or reviving the economy? In such situations and in such circumstances we would have understanding of such a thing, but since the only goal of this government is that by the end of its term, another 100,000 people will be left without a job, then, of course, we can't have an understanding of such a thing. The list is important for several reasons. First, he will tell us and we will find out through him how much less we are today compared to the period since 2002, how much less babies are born in Serbia annually, what villages look like to us, what we see the edges of territory that are completely demographically empty, and how many years old young people leave the country. I read the other day that we're second in the world on brain drains. The only thing worse than us is Guinea-Bissau. According to some estimates, only since 1990, Serbia has been abandoned by 40,000 experts with high school supplies. In such circumstances it is necessary to ask the Government what it is doing, whether it creates circumstances and possibilities, the conditions for these people to stay in the country or more, in the style of those billboards that have recently caused great attention, calling for them to leave the country? Stopping this negative trend of brain drains and stopping a negative demographic trend is something that today in Serbia is the most important task. There's nothing more important if at some point, at some obvious moment in the future, there's very little of us or we're not at all. Then the question arises – what does the Government do to encourage birth in this country, if we know that the Strategy for Inciting Birth has brought it, and it is a good document, but it is not applied? Instead of inciting birth, the government either reduces or stops it by its own measures. Last time in the principle debate, I was talking about that famous government regulation, and I think it's not bad to mention it once again to put pressure on the government to get into a situation to pull it back. According to that regulation, all women families of entrepreneurs are obliged to repay all the benefits they received when they were on maternity leave only because at the time they went to maternity leave they did not close their own company, or their shop, and they were not in fact obliged because the regulation was only later adopted and no one warned them at that time. It is not surprising, therefore, that every year in Serbia, 30,000 of us are less and that we have lost nearly 400,000 people from 1992 to today. Today, the central problem in Serbia is the problem of insufficient birth. The birth rate is 30% below what would be needed to simply restore the population. Also, a huge problem is also a negative natural growth, which has been present in Serbia since 1992; out of 165 municipalities, 158 municipalities in Serbia today there are negative or zero natural growth. Frapant is the fact that 42 municipalities in Serbia have a negative natural age rate so high that demographics seriously warn of the disappearance of these municipalities. On such occasions, it is unacceptable for the Strategy to encourage the birth of the Government, which, I repeat, is essentially a very good document, to not be implemented at this time. It is obvious that the government is unaware of the seriousness of demographic data and the possible consequences of such movements to the survival of a nation. I believe that he will become aware of the moment he learns the results of the list, and to find out that it is necessary to provide the funds for his funding before, and we today point out that as our key argument in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52790	Six minutes have been used since the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Madam Minister, it is my special honor to welcome the director of the State Statistics Institute, Mr Dragan Vukmirovic, in front of the SRS parliamentary group. It's nice to see an expert who understands what they're talking about and who this topic won't be a party to. I'll stick to it strictly, as I always try, topics, i.e. the proposed amendment tabled before the SRS by the honourable Buh MP. What's additional to him as a man might hurt, burn, and torture him is his refugee status. I think he's also right, and he should have permission from this home, to show off these difficult problems that a lot of people are facing. Let me get back to the subject. We're looking for a delete of the first member. For what? Look, Madam Chairman, we're about to get into that problem right now. In fact, we advocate respecting an extremely important scientific principle of critical date. It's been said that the list won't cost any more. We have forecasted the budget before, preparations have been made to make a list of quality in this country, the state of Serbia. However, the census is one extremely complex, large action, research, scientific, we can freely say, which requires large material resources. That's why we've been going for ten years, but it's a very important time to do it. All the countries, perhaps you've noticed, may not have, were practically on March 31st going into this action, countries in the environment and in the world. Why? May I say? That's why experts say that if you postpone it, then you have to do additional budgets, which requires both scientific methodology, both people and spending resources. That was why it was extremely important to adopt this amendment to Mr. Buha. I don't think for any well-intentioned man that's a questionable one. The census is extremely important for the whole country of Serbia, it is of strategic importance. We in political parties are very interested in having it done in a quality way to plan our actions, to ultimately update the electoral lists, to see if there are dead souls, whether they are real. In the end, we'll be able to test our state registers and our state records, test the population register, the business register, a whole series of these registers. Now someone will tell me – you are in charge. The government said there's no money in the first quarter. How does this government believe there will be material resources in the third? Let me explain this alchemy - there is no today, but tomorrow it will be. That's what people and children call "the sparrow on the branch", it can be, and it doesn't necessarily mean. So you haven't convinced us with your answer that you've spoken seriously about this problem with us when you're texting about our amendments. We told you two or three reasons why we... That's what experts say, they don't say radicals. Radicals draw strength from the people, and something they say here, if they think they say smart of experts... We're not smart for everyone, we consult top experts. What my colleagues have been saying is, from this data, demographic data. Demography is one extremely serious, strategic science. Serbia had greats on the plan, I will mention one name: academic Macura, an expert in the United Nations, was a candidate for the first secretary general of the United Nations. Now you're going to say that it's a depression, it is, but I want to say one thing - we have extraordinary experts, thank God, and day and day. We have experts, but those who need to enable them to show that expertise, through this list, time-consuming, so that we don't have extra costs, didn't allow them. That's what we're saying. That's the theme of the witness. I think that's the central theme. You will say to me, "Yes, it is the easiest thing to criticise." Everyone can do it. I agree. You often tell us – what do you suggest? Will you have the patience to hear what we suggest, so that it doesn't turn out to be an empty story. Serbian radicals, as in most cases, do not always suggest what the biggest experts in the area say. What were you supposed to do? You should have accepted the initiative of the public, the staff of the institute itself, the top experts, to implement the list in a modern and modern manner. How? Instead of the classic way, how they'll probably be implemented, if you're an information society, and we're an information society, we're not Africa, and Africa's probably done a lot already on that road... According to statistical data, over 40% of households already have a computer or a laptop. So we live in that time, that list shouldn't be run the way you're probably going to run it, writing, forms, 20,000 people you have to train, then the controllers that are going to do it. It was supposed to be for the lists we're talking about to buy laptops and write a program. Good experts, I won't explain here, it's not a place, they clearly wrote what are the immeasurable advantages of doing such a thing. Someone's gonna say we don't have any money. Watch out, you'll have money to print a bunch of paper forms. You'll have money to store it. You'll have money to transport it to the trucks, to get it back. You'll have money to then enter into new computers, which you'll buy, with new people, all that data, so it'll take five or six months, input, so there'll be unread and incorrectly filled questionnaires. If you had a laptop, if you had a program that controlled the error and what was done electronically in one day to switch to the power plant, you'd have a job done in two months. What you enter later you have to scan; buy scanners, create programs, and so on. What are we talking about? We're talking about an anachron state, a government that doesn't use what top experts suggest is a good solution. What's the problem? The problem really is that seven or eight thousand, take two lists of 15,000, computers. The ministry of education said that this year every school in Serbia will have a computer. A school of 1,200, let's say 15,000, that means that every school, if you get 15... And he doesn't have to go to school, why doesn't the state buy it, so he borrows it for the list, and then he splits it to the ministries, why doesn't he offer laptops to those censusors? Because, you know, when you buy laptops on a large scale, there goes the price down, they're multiple benefits and we'd have accurate data. We've been away from the subject for a while, but it's done as we say now, and we've been told by experts that we should work, this amendment of Mr. Buha could be adopted. We're giving you solutions now, so you don't mind just criticizing. Let me just have one more thing, I'm obliged to say, Mr. Buha touched it one way. I don't want to talk politics and what's going on in the surrounding countries, but it's certain that we Serbs have a problem with "leopard's skin", that we are scattered in these areas and that there will be problems over the real number of us Serbs, it certainly won't be possible to establish, because, you see, there is no list in the Bosnian Federation, unfortunately. So, these data, as it are, will always be incomplete for us in some way. I'm in favour of finding a way through this list to write down victims of wars from 1990 to 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52792	People's MP, I'm really asking you. I warned the People's MP Buh. The list refers to living people. In addition to the way in which you break the Rules of Procedure, expression requires that the list regulates a matter that cannot be arranged by the list is a question of lack of good taste and insulting people who are not alive. Continue on the agenda, with respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52793	Madam Chairman, it's not a list of living people, households. Households aren't living people. Please show the basic knowledge, you don't have to show good will to listen to what I'm saying, you don't have to approve of it, but you don't have the elemental knowledge. The household list is not a living thing. The farm lists machines...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52794	National MP, the list in agriculture is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52795	We'll get to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52796	We won't make it. You'll respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52797	Okay, I can say it later, but just to finish up, not to bother the meeting, I wanted to be efficient and say it, but I can answer it later, if you think it's better. I think I'm done with two sentences, so if you'll let me, I'll finish, and if I don't, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52798	On the agenda, MP, as long as you like, since you've only spent ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52799	This is an exclusive agenda and this is the opinion of the experts in front of me, who signed, by name and last name, the doctors of science employed in the Statistical Institute. Now you appreciate if it's something that's not about the subject. Your wide knowledge certainly allows you to do so, and I welcome it, I admire it, but I respect these people, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52800	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. I'm really asking you to stick to the agenda theme. If we need to read again what is on the agenda, please – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011. Any kind of attempt to demean the National Assembly, to offend people, I will sanction by the obligation I have under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In your performances, please take care of who you represent and who we all represent together by working on amendments and additions to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52801	Mrs. Comic, Madam Minister, within the framework of this amendment tabled by Mr. Buha with a clear tendency of the SRS to stick to this deadline, which is 1 April 2011, I will highlight two important problems that will be encountered by Serbian citizens who have a residence here, but who will not be able to make themselves clear on the census, I doubt that, and in October of the month. I'm talking about our countrymen being exiled from Republika Srpska and Montenegro. I have to remind you, Mrs. Comic, you remember very well, Mrs. Markovic was not a minister at the time, but she probably followed it, in 2005, when we passed the Law on Citizenship, and later we adopted the new Constitution in 2006, we treated the question of the right to citizenship with Article 38. The Constitution and the law, as well as Article 38. The constitution clearly states in its first position that the acquisition and termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is governed by the law. Why am I telling you this? Because about 70,000 and perhaps up to 100,000 of our countrymen who had to leave their centuries-old hearths under Ustasha torture "Bleska" and "Storms" and to move into the queen of Serbia can't get the status of Serbian citizens today. They will be recorded within collective accommodations, households or wherever and how they live as persons who continue to have that status. The same is true of our countrymen from Montenegro who were happy in 2005 when we adopted the new Law on Citizenship. Somehow, at that moment, a consensus of all political parties was almost reached that Article 7. The law on citizenship is so that anyone who recognises Serbia as his country of origin has the right to gain citizenship. Post-festum has created problems. As problems have arisen for our troubled Serbs from the age-old and western Serbian countries, from Republika Srpska, that is what Mr Buha said. Madam Minister, you may not know that information, Mr. Buha is the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in exile. The government was elected after the election there. And the day-to-day they suffer from their suffering as to the acquisition of fundamental rights here. We're getting into a situation where, when there's a list in the course of this year, in October... We want it to be now, but it's obvious that the state was unprepared; this without money, it's just an excuse, because a lot of data hasn't been updated. We'll have a very different picture, apparently, of the AP Vojvodina. Before the last census in Vojvodina, 87% of the population were declared members of the Serbian nation. After a census ten years ago, they were 62%. The projections are now that it will certainly be below 50%, and all because of the fact that they tend to be assimilated by the Ustasha Croatian authorities, namely that those originating in Republika Srpska under pressures coming from Zagreb must, in order to preserve their property, register and take citizenship, so to speak. The Republic of Croatia that occupied the Republic of Serbia. We will now be in a situation that, when the census is carried out in October, there will be 15% fewer Serbs in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Who does that suit? Probably those who are officials of the current government, the authorities from 2000 to today. It will not be an eyelash to move this File that was coming to you today and who said, by the way, things that are disastrous for Serbia and what it should do until it enters the EU, which is against which the SRS is. Let's have basic hearing for people who are Serbs, who are from other areas, from former SFRY space, and the NATO Pact, America and Western forces have just destroyed that country and the centuries-old national, ethnic and cultural space. After all, you heard a month ago, when our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, held a historic class in The Hague... (Chairman: National MPs, please, on the agenda. ) It was just one little dyspression. (President: No depression, but about the agenda. It is an obligation, both mine and yours, to respect a member of the Rules of Procedure which implies that you speak of the agenda. Here I go, Mrs. Comic. So we get into trouble because these people won't be in a position to make those rights come true. I am a member of the Committee on Defence and Security and some other committees; in the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia the most such performances are people who, after two or three years, some even four, are waiting for citizenship to be gained, so that in this survey list, which Mrs. Comic has, which is prepared for the census in this year, will explain what they are, where they live and which nation they belong to. They're simply not in a situation because they don't have citizenship. Who's to blame? It's the current government's fault. I must remind you, too, Mrs Comic, that I am talking to you more now than Mrs Markovic, because she was not a very witness at the time, she was not a minister at the time, that negotiations with the separatist authorities in Montenegro were started, led by then by Interior Minister Jusuf Kalamperovic. Later, three or four times Minister Ivica Dacic went there, or this one came here, they hated it. They agree that the same way it is done with Serbs from Republika Srpska, the assimilation of Serbs in Montenegro, as the census is being prepared there, decreases the total number of Serbs. It will have inconceivable consequences for future generations. How are we going to fight for what is the eternal Serbian country? When we say - Serbia's Montenegro, Lika, Bani, Kordun, Slavonia, Baranja, we say that because of historical facts. After all, the project, our idea and what we stand for, which is the basis of the ideology of Serbian nationalism is a great Serbia. But those people who believed most MPs (even the opposition MPs voted for the law in 2005) cannot exercise their rights today. Because you can see what's going on with the officials in Montenegro that Mil's government found out they have citizenship. (President: National MPs, the subject of the agenda are amendments and additions to the Law on the List of Populations, Apartments and Households. Please, on the subject of the agenda. I'm talking about the agenda. (President: You cannot talk about problems from another country as part of this agenda topic. ) These are not problems from another country, these are the problems of people living in Serbia's territory who have not received citizenship. (President: Citizenship is also not a topic of law and is not a topic of agenda. So you're confirming to me that you're not talking about the agenda. So how are you going to list that someone... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52802	People's MPs, I now warn you that you have an obligation to speak about the agenda. Nationality, obtaining citizenship, failing citizenship are not a topic of the agenda, and I ask you to enable me to care for order at the session of the Assembly and to talk about the agenda. Please sign in. You've used seven minutes since the MP's time. Now sign in, you have the right to use your time further.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52803	I'm just telling you that in addition to marital status, native language, religion, that means nationality. Explain to me, since you are warning me, how will you explain to someone who has settled from the White Field, Bar, Podgorica how he is going to get into a situation in Serbia and no longer want to live there, express himself and register in this form on October 15th of this year? You're saying I'm not talking about the agenda, so explain it to that someone. Let them address you as the vice president of the congregation and as a messenger to help them. Excuse me, please, I'm going to refer all these people to Gordana Komic now. You solve their problems, since you know it better, but I'm sure you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52804	National MPs, please, without direct address and without violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your desire to talk about the agenda has no realisation in what's said. My duty in that case is to make warnings. If it is your desire that a subject such as amendments and additions to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and dwellings be ended by you wanting to provoke, defamation of the National Assembly, mocking the agenda, demeaning the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you to behave, if the aim is to impose punishment on you, I am at your disposal. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52805	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after all discussions, I remain confused, as a representative of the ruling majority and as a representative of the Democratic Party, whether we are here today discussing the Law on Citizenship or the Law on Census. Here are easy to read terms and terms, but lightly and express qualifications at the expense of our neighbours, states in our immediate environment. Here the citizens are directed to be confused again, here through the form of an amendment to a very clear and precise law re-entering anxiety among the citizens of this country and trying again, a rhetoric that we barely survived in the 1990s...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52806	People's MP, please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52807	I'm just confused about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52808	Please, about the amendment and about the law that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52809	As a man of the ruling majority who reads the laws and amendments of all applicants very well, I believe these amendments should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52810	I ask the People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, not to throw away, nor to cause a mess in the congregation, as well as the People's Messenger to Sreto Peric. This is the last warning. You want me to keep showing or saying the names of the MPs of the members of the SRS Group who want to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and disdain all of us in the National Assembly and embarrass us? If you like, I'm at your disposal. People's MP, continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52811	Thank you. If the aim of these amendments is to confuse and frighten citizens and if the aim of these amendments is to insult countries in the immediate environment and to propagate the idea of a great Serbia, which is not feasible, then I think these amendments should be rejected. But if the aim is to explain these amendments to just spend the time of this assembly on gender debates and debates about what is not on the agenda, then it is not only a matter of rejection, but also of expressing the measure of caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52812	They were used two minutes from the MP's time. People's MP Pai Mamchilov is saying he wants a replica. People's Messenger, I direct you to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to read the terms of the Rules of Procedure, and to see in the regulations of the Rules of Procedure what are the obligations of the President, what are the rights of the Chairman, and what are the obligations and rights of the People's Messengers. There is no possibility in any of these members that the MP, a member of any parliamentary group, should replicate while the chairman, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 27 and taking care of order in the National Assembly, will apply the Rules of Procedure, so please read the Rules of Procedure. If you are in need, the deputy secretary is here to help you and to interpret you if you have misunderstandings, as well as the secretary of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? National MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52813	I was just talking about what the experts said, I wasn't expressing my opinion. In my explanation why it is necessary to accept the amendment of the SRS to delete Article 1 I specifically said what experts say, no personal improvisation and no confusion, that we understand each other. Therefore, what we resent does not stand. I guess that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52814	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52815	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011 is the best example and indicator of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works. The basic Law on the census, households and dwellings was adopted in this National Assembly last year. You then disobeyed our warning that the census, at least the way you predicted it and planned it, would be another generous spending of budget funds. The 2002 census in this same Serbia was carried out with 45,000 censusors, instructors and controllers, while you provided for the 2011 census to employ 60,000 external censusors, controllers and instructors. For the same, and since the number of people in Serbia is reduced year by year, unfortunately, the likely and smaller job will be hired and paid 15,000 people more. The involvement of this army of people will not be by expertise, nor by ability, but exclusively by the party's membership card in power. The 2002 census cost 18m euros or 2.25 euros per capita, while according to you, the census this year will cost 3.5 euros per capita or 26m euros. You did not accept the suggestions of the Group of MPs to advance Serbia's SNS neither then nor now. Our view is that the census is necessary, that it is a civilizational fluid, but that the traditional way of censusing is the most expensive method and that you should consider the experiences of other countries and change the very technology of data collection. In Slovenia, which I also talked about in principle, this year's census will be made by regulation, in a way that was accepted in the EU three years ago. Instead of field censuses, the whole job will be carried out by a body in the interior ministry, the state geodetic administration and the state statistical office. The whole job is done without any extra-face involvement. In this way, Slovenia, which is a much richer and more orderly state than Serbia, will save more than 10m euros in this job. The registration method of Slovenia's population list will cost only a few percent of the cost of traditional, classic field list, which you seem to only know about. Of course, it didn't occur to you to think about our grudges, let alone accept them. That's why you've now come to the point of amending the Law on Census, Households and Households you're putting that job off by six months. You stated that it was a delay due to a lack of money, a lack of funds. However, when you treat your budgets with pride, it is likely that this money will never be. If we were to chronologically set up all the moves and events, we'd get one kind of algorithm. The Census, Households and Apartments Act is being adopted, 60,000 censusors are being planned, the modernisation of censusing technology is not being considered, savings are even less. It's been a few months, the budget's empty, the funds for the census aren't secured, and you're in the assembly procedure referring to the bill asking for a postponement of the census by six months. What guarantees do you give us to the MPs, but most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that by October from real sources, you will provide the funds needed to carry out the census? As the previous speaker said, I read this bill carefully, and I couldn't find these guarantees in this bill. What is missing in this algorithm of behaviour and action of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has repeatedly repeated itself in these three years? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, lacks responsibility. Who is responsible for the fact that this year's census will cost eight million euros more? Who is responsible for applying the most expensive, traditional way of collecting data, not the registration model? Who is responsible for not providing the necessary financial resources so far? Probably no one, as it has been so far. I won't be surprised if you transfer responsibility to us from the SNS; it wouldn't surprise me if you targeted me as responsible tens of thousands of our dissatisfied citizens looking for change in the markets across Serbia, looking for a chance to live like the whole normal world, looking for extraordinary parliamentary elections. I'm going to ask you in the end, Madam Minister, but also the rest of your government colleagues, don't insult our intelligence. The Serbian Progressive Party has requested that the census not be delayed for six months, but for a maximum of two months. We asked for the census to be carried out in June 2011, compared to October 2011, as you requested by this bill. In an explanation of the refusal of the amendment you stated, I quote: "Amendment is not accepted because for the field realization of the census a period is chosen over the year in which the weather opportunities for the field realization of the census are appropriate and in which the population is small spatial mobility. “ What are you talking about here? That there's more chance of a rainy period in June, on the threshold of summer than in mid-October? Do you know how long the day is in June than in October? What kind of spatial mobility are you talking about, what kind of flights are you talking about? You have left four hundred thousand people out of work in Serbia, and you are talking about flights and the spatial mobility of the population. No Serbian citizens live, unfortunately, as does the political elite in the government of the Republic of Serbia. And, as you end up dealing with weather opportunities, I'll remind you and I'll inform you that April 16th is the ideal time for the field realization of protests and therefore, while it's time, call an extraordinary parliamentary election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52816	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and not to warn me that the Messenger does not speak about the subject of the agenda. But it's good to see how when you listen to someone you know exactly when they're not talking about the subject of the agenda. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52817	I love every comparison of Serbia with Slovenia, and it is good to compare ourselves with the better of us, not the worse; I love every comparison of Serbia with EU countries, because our tendency is to be like them, but, unfortunately, right now we are not like them, because if we were like them, we would be where these countries belong, in the EU. So, to talk about how the census can be done in another way in the state of Serbia, where there are 40% of functionally illiterate people, talk about how in Serbia the list can be done in a way that some services, institutions and even certain ministries can do, at a time when these ministries do not have enough staff to do current daily work, is one theory that would be good if Serbia were a rich state like Slovenia. Serbia, unfortunately, is not a rich country like Slovenia, has neither technical nor technological equipment such as Slovenia, after all, we do not even have the number of residents who have Slovenia, and at the same time we do not have the possibility to make a list in the way EU countries do. I will be very happy, as well as my colleague Babic, when Serbia, perhaps the next list, is able to do as modern-day European Union states do and I will be happy if we contribute together in these efforts, both SNS and DS and all other political parties. However, to discuss whether the list should be done in June or October raises various questions, not just whether someone will go to sea or take a vacation, whether someone may go to the harvest business in June, whether someone may go to other jobs in June. In doing so, I don't know that many countries in the world are being kidnapped that the census works in June of the month, no matter what time it is or how long the day lasts. But speaking of time, if April 16 is the ideal time for any kind of activity and it's gonna be such a nice time, then what do you need a Styrofoam for isolation? You don't need a styrofoam to isolate. So, because of this isolation in which Serbia was in the 1990s and because of the policy that you have led, perhaps now we are late for Slovenia as late as we are and there may be a question of responsibility as to why we are doing the list in a traditional way, rather than in another, better and more efficient way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52818	Two minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52819	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have praised you so much Thursday when you defended the law of sports for being here and for participating in it, and today I cannot come to my senses. I know this isn't your matter, but it's just weird that you're quiet and you've ever agreed to come here today to quiet down in front of the MPs. So the upcoming census, households and apartments is a major regional project, and it is not only a Serbian project, but a major regional project. The results of the fixed one-decade update of demographic, economic and socio-national images determine many important things, influence the mutual relations of the state, accidentally open old wounds, we need to answer the question of why we die out, Gods, and warn us of unfulfilled promises. The census in Serbia was planned by law for April 2011, and by amendments to the laws ahead of us it was moved to October. The explanation is that there wasn't enough money in the budget, which is the question someone needs to answer. As far as I know, a part of the budget for 2011 is planned for the upcoming census. It's probably a big job, which obviously has to be planned, because some institutions have already set out to plan and realize jobs. And then you inform us in this supplement that you are practically asking for money from the EU and that this money will be available to you in September 2011. I really need to ask you a question about why you need that money if you've written to us in the light of the law that no additional means are needed for the realisation of this law? So somebody really tried to write some funny comments to the guy that we didn't need the money. Obviously, we need the money and we need it right. Among the institutions that I mentioned had started preparatory work is the Statistical Office, which apparently took its tasks very seriously and knows how the job should be done. They made the appointment of census commissions, local self-government units appointed 162 such commissions to represent future job holders at the local. They made basic list forms, auxiliary forms, methodological and organisational instructions, but everything was hitched; it was obviously stored for the press and hitched and not realized in that part. And the Republic Geodetic Institute did a few preparatory things, and it was very important to continue this business. I have here a statement from our prime minister saying that there is not enough money for quality and timely preparation in the realisation of the list and that is why the government is moving this job in six months, hoping that money will come from somewhere. But I have to remind all the peoples and citizens of Serbia, without the intention of scaring them, that all those who in this great upcoming regional business, who were obviously meant to happen at the same time, see only mere statistics and one completely different science, and do not see the political connotation that has all this work and how much this delay of Serbia from six months can cause damage to the citizens of Serbia and the government of Serbia especially because we are late to receive some very important answers that we need to respond to a questionnaire from Brussels. Also, this delay will also reflect the possibility of joining other pre-accession funds. But let's go back to this purely statistical work and the fact that cold statistics will confirm the many evils that have been happening in these areas for the last decade. Mrs. Chairman has warned her colleagues several times about it, but it is impossible to avoid it, because this is a regional project, obviously and designed to work at the same time, precisely because it will hurt many of the wounds and what will practically Serbs living in the region... And we have, this assembly passed a law on Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora. So we have to worry about that, and that's the problem that we have to talk about and how it's about this law. So Serbs in the region will be left at the mercy of the censusors, many of whom are obviously making list issues very suggestive, because Serbs from Montenegro, Serbs from Croatia, Serbs living in BiH, and how they warn the Serbian government to help them, in order to... After all, the patriarch came forward, asking the Serbian state for help to declare people as Serbs of Orthodox faith. He didn't answer for no reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52820	Please, on the subject of the agenda, therefore, on the amendment and addition of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. When we have a regional government and a regional assembly, then they'll be in some office... You will be able to talk about the topic outside the agenda, or about the competences of the countries that will then be in a regional government. For now, the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and concerning the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52821	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your warning, but when we have a national responsible government, then we'll take care of everything. So, I will return to the amendment we proposed on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mrs Donka Banovic, Mr Milan Dimitrijevic, Mr Nikola Lazic and I. With this amendment, we wanted to move the deadlines at least that month ahead, so it's not September 30th, it's June 30th. What you have answered here is really very ironic and cynical, and I will read this: “Amendment is not accepted because it is chosen for the field realization of the census during the year in which the least spatial mobility of the population is. The period from July 1st to July 15th is not suitable for the implementation of the list. In the summer months, July and August, the largest mobility of the population is recorded. “ It would be in another country, we live in Serbia. Seven hundred thousand people in Serbia survive every day so they don't know what they're going to eat that day, which will feed their children. To talk about this great mobility, in other words, summer break and summer break, will endanger the rank of the census itself, it's really cynical. I don't know what those 700,000 people will answer when the final list comes to them, but I think it's very, very uncomfortable to read your argument. On the other hand, the big question is whether this list will ever be realized, because from what is happening here today, and based on the way the speakers are interrupted, I can assume that Serbia is obviously responsible for not keeping the list at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52822	Five minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52823	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia everything can be given political connotation. People who deal with politics see politics in everything, people who deal with the economy in most events see economic indicators and economic legality. On the other hand, I am pleased that even eurosceptics in Serbia see the benefits of the EU and advocate European values in the implementation of the census and that pre-accession funds are obtained. This well proves the evolution of the idea of the EU among those political parties that just a few days ago were bitter opponents of the European Union. However, when we talk about this amendment that we have heard and an explanation of why it should be accepted or not, the national responsible governments, when you tell them – the mobility of the population, they think about work, the national irresponsible governments are thinking about rest. Nationally responsible governments are thinking that the mobility of the population does not necessarily mean leaving the place of residence on vacation, but may also mean going to work and earn something, as national responsibility is also shown in this way. On the other hand, anyone who says it's not the national responsibility of the government that provides for the possibility that people in June may not be in their homes, that people in July can go somewhere to do something, that in August they can go somewhere to do something I have to remind myself that thanks to the Democratic Party of this country no longer have Schengen shackles and disciplines... (President: People's Parliament, please, on the subject of the agenda. ) That is exactly what I am talking about, what we heard, about the explanation of this amendment, which is that people in June, July and August are only sitting at their homes, waiting for Insider to see how much a political party has stolen from the "Colubara" or whether someone has responded to a subpoena or not. I think people in July and August are also doing something, they're leaving their homes, and they're doing it everywhere in the world, and nobody in June, July and August is waiting in their census homes. It is a period when people are not exactly in their homes, no matter what their material options are and whether at all costs they go on vacation or maybe go to the country to do something or go somewhere else to do something and earn money. I think the explanation is why this amendment wasn't accepted quite in place, that it was quite clear and precisely defined. I'm undermining again, I don't know many countries in the world that are running to carry out their census in June, July and August. It is usually done in some periods that are more appropriate for the movement and migration of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52824	It was used three minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic wants a word. You have no right to a replica. You have the time of the parliamentary group at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52825	I have no intention of commenting on how someone understands what I'm saying. I'm talking to a very simple dictionary and I don't want to go into it how or if anyone can understand it. Whether the ideas of the Democratic Party of Serbia have changed course, I will say a few key facts. The governments of Vojislav Kostunica have done much more for accepting European ideas and standards in Serbia than for calling themselves that. We received a positive assessment of the Performance Study, paraphrased the SAA, opened the Office for European Integration, adopted the Strategy on the European Determination of Serbia, reached an agreement on visa liberalisation and stood there because Kosovo was declared a state and our friends from Europe accepted it. We stopped here because we won't accept the conditions that you accept... (Chairman: National MPs, on the agenda, please. I use the time of my parliamentary group. How I'm gonna use it, it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52826	You can't use a replica. I said you had no right to a replica, but to use the time of the parliamentary group. If you use the time of the parliamentary group, then you are obliged to talk about the agenda. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52827	The amendment to this second member to be amended - otherwise, these amendments and additions are practically amended by only three members of the applicable law - is in line with the amendment we have proposed to Article 1. This proposal proposes to postpone the entire process of censuses, households and apartments by six months, and we have intervened these amendments and we consider it sufficient to postpone the planned list by three months. First of all, if you read this explanation of the changes and additions themselves, it explains that for the implementation of this law, the census, I read what it says in the explanation, there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it says in the explanation. Another reason why we don't think it should be delayed for six months and this proposal is not good is because we think this, this reconstructed government, which, Kobajagi, should work much better, can't last a fall. We believe that the Bureau of Statistics, which is very engaged in the Republic and all other elections, will have a lot of work to do in October, so we shouldn't leave this huge job behind in October. So that was two reasons. However, you have rejected this amendment that we suggest the list should be postponed by three months. That argument was read by my colleagues, an explanation for which the amendment is rejected – that the mobility of the population is... etc. This article refers specifically to the fact that people, homeowners, etc., if not at home, are obliged to report within a certain period and to supply all that information. In this explanation for the refusal of amendments, now not in the context of amendments and the addition of the law, it says in the budget, that the state simply has no financial resources to make a census. So, in reason for the refusal of amendments, we just find that out, even though we could read about it in the press, but I am now talking about the papers and documents that MPs have at their disposal. Therefore, the reason for the rejection of the amendments states that the money is missing, that a donation is expected or that funds will be received from EU pre-accession funds. Anyway, one schizophrenic situation when it comes to this list and how that list is going to be financed: first you tell us that there is money and no additional funding, and then you say that we expect donations and that we will probably get funds from pre-accession funds. I have no doubt that you may have received a promise, I am now addressing Mr Vukmirovic, I am sorry that the government's representative is not here, but I assume that the representatives of the government have received promises that the pre-accession funds will receive funds for Serbia to do this very important, big and expensive job. It's very important to make a list. It's been eleven years since the last list, and there's a lot of things going to be said and shown. I suppose we all have a dose of fear of what the census results will be, above all, when it comes to population numbers. It will prove that we are getting smaller and smaller, and it will show exactly how much less people live in towns, and it will show how many villages no longer live in, that we have whole areas, especially in the territory of eastern and southern Serbia, which are completely, unfortunately, empty. I hope that there will be no forecast for experts and demographics that in 2052 there will be two million fewer Serbs in the Republic. I'm saying, I hope you... I can't even say black forecasts, because experts do their job professionally, come out with data and say state – if you don't change something and do something better, in 2052 there will be two million fewer inhabitants. It is in the state to apply all those papers, strategies and laws that have already been passed. A few years ago, a birth-enhancing strategy was adopted. Certain legal proposals with solutions (now I'm only talking about what's on paper) should encourage birth in Serbia. In practice, however, that is not the case. It happens with a lot of strategies, but when it comes to this strategy, it doesn't seem to apply. And, as if some ministers, who should apply those strategies and breathe their lives, don't even know they exist. Then I suggest that we teach all these great strategies and then know – we don't care to improve some area, we don't care to encourage birth and then opposition MPs won't even call you. When the Social Protection Act was here and when Minister Ljajic was here, I pointed out, because I thought it was primarily his concern, and it has something to do with the birth and the law on the census that would show that we are getting smaller, that there is a whole group of foster parents, women who are entrepreneurs, who are not concerned, that is, absolutely not taken care of by the state, on the contrary. In 2008, some phantom regulation appeared in the finance ministry that says that if a woman entrepreneur, therefore, the owner of a private company, does not stop being, she will not have the right to maternity leave. If these women knew that in 2008, or if there was a magic regulation, they would probably have. At the end of 2010, they found a solution to the tax administration from all cities across Serbia that they had to return the funds they received on behalf of the maternity leave. We have here a complete absence of hearing and understanding for the needs of a group of women. I think there's discrimination here. Since a few years ago, we have the Law on Gender Equality, and here it is broken, as well as the Labour Act, the Law on Family Protection with Children, etc. So this is a very serious problem. When he was here, Mr Ljajic promised all MPs, including me, publicly, that he would make sure that this problem was resolved. Now the Prime Minister is also the finance minister and I understand this discussion as well, Mrs. Comic reminds me of the topic, but I also understand as a form of pressure from the legislative authority on the executive, so that they see how they will solve the problem. In Serbia, otherwise, there are very few women who dare to go into private business, so they feed their family, hire other people who feed their families, etc., so there are very few women who go into these flows, and then they need to be found by such a misunderstanding of the state to tell them – you know what, that you are a woman and you want to be a mother, that's your problem, we don't care at all, and you have no right as other women who are employed in other businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52828	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52829	Thank you, Madam Chairman. One of the main reasons for prolonging the census is the lack of money in the budget. Another question that is raised – why is there no money in the budget if such a type of job is foreseen? The answer is very simple – because the budget is unrealistic, because the budget is based on the wrong data. Because the budget is used to settle the costs of coalition partners. At the same time, you are saying that you are relying on pre-accession European Union funds. Has anyone in the ruling coalition seen any report on the use of money from pre-accession European Union funds? If he had seen it, he would have been very concerned, because that money from those funds is most likely not going to be received, according to those reports coming from the European Union, as these funds have been spent. These funds were spent completely non-transparently. You cannot use the European Union's taxpayers' money to settle your party interests. That's the point of the problem. So don't trust that money from those funds, because you won't get it. Several reports that I had the opportunity to see about the use of these funds, in the position of one ministry, which is the Ministry of Health, says these funds for that ministry were closed in 2011. Closed, no money. No, for the reasons I've stated. When something is used non-transparently, when a project from these pre-accession funds is not assessed positively but negatively, then no one from the European Union is crazy about bringing you money and giving you money to use it that way. That's why you're delaying this list. This shows how the government works, that it is completely incapable of carrying out this regional project, which is very important and which should answer some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52830	Two minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52831	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry, how the Government works when it comes to spending the money of the taxpayers of the European Union had the opportunity to hear this morning everyone who listened to our guest's exposure, who said – you are welcome to Europe and pre-accession funds are open to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52833	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, both proposed amendments to the Prosperity Group of Serbian Progressive Parties are compatible with each other, so that the views expressed earlier also apply to this amendment. What I would like to add is that the United Nations Population Commission has proposed that due to the possibility of bringing together the collected data between different countries, lists are carried out at the end or beginning of the decade. This is one of the reasons why the international community will motivate you and force you to make a census, even if it's too expensive and boastful. But what is very important for the Serbian Progressive Party is also issues that these lists will ask us. Are we as a society, as a state, ready to give quick and quality answers to painful questions that the census of the population, households and apartments will definitely bring to our faces? Will the state waste time on barren analysis and promises, and the problems that have accumulated for decades remain the same or increase? The censuses will tell us that there are 4,800 villages in Serbia, on the way to extinction, each fourth and about 1,200 of them. There are about 260,000 single boys living in these villages who set foot in the fifth decade of their lives without designing their families. At the same time, in the vicinity of these villages, there are an unprocessed 600,000 hectares of land and close to 50,000 empty houses. Who's gonna fill those houses? Who's going to resuscitate those households? Such data is also evidenced by the fact that in 702 settlements in Serbia, less than a hundred people live. More specifically, 352 settlements have less than 50 inhabitants and 350 between 50 and 100 inhabitants. Why does this matter? Because, as a rule, these settlements are without young people, and that is why they are estimated to disappear completely in less than two decades. What have you as a government and as a government over the past eleven years done to stop such a process or at least slow it down? Once again, I will repeat the position of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is that the census of the population, households and dwellings is a civilizational fluid, but also an international obligation to be respected. But we also think that I am a way of collecting and processing data should be modernised, with maximum savings. We couldn't recognize all of this in this bill, which we tried to amend, and therefore you can't expect when it was adopted to support the Serbian Progressive Party. As for Styrofoam, in Serbia, the syrofoam has become a synonym for changes, which should not happen on the street, but in the polling stations. The Styrofoam has become a synonym for the chance that we should live like the whole normal world. In one thing, I'll agree with my countryman from Kruševec, which is that the Styrofoam is used in construction for isolation, for the facades of houses, but it's the primary role of saving energy and reducing costs. That is exactly what we want from the Serbian Progressive Party -- extraordinary parliamentary elections, changes in government, a smaller, more efficient government, savings in the state apparatus of which the effect will have not political elites, as so far, but citizens of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52834	One minute and forty-five seconds. Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, since there is no Madam Minister, and she has been fortunate lately, first represented here the law on sports, and then the law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, which is one of the most popular statistical actions, of course... At one point, I got the impression that they could be mentioned here, without the risk of getting a warning, just three words, that's: population, households and apartments. But the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2011 consists of 34 members. It was adopted on 11 December 2009, with the statement of the President of the Republic declared and entered into force on 16 December 2009. And then we said what we thought about this law. Then came the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments. We're definitely for the census. The fact that a census law can also be talked about in other words is that this law consists of, perhaps 2,000 words in its text, allowing other words to be used other than: "citizenship", "domestics" and "states". We're against delaying the census. It is originally foreseen for the period from 1 April to 15 April. Now we have one problem: who guarantees you that the amendments and additions to the laws that are proposed will be adopted during the vote? What happens if that law is not accepted by the congregation majority? Are we then going to enter the census of the population, households and apartments from April 1st to April 15th, or are we going to wait, regardless of whether the law is adopted or not, from October 1st to October 15th to finish the job? Now you will say that he will surely be accepted. It's something you can't know in advance, but it doesn't matter that much right now. There have been a number of problems when preparing for this list. Now he doesn't need at all, someone would say, sorry to speak for me, sorry that Minister Samardzic Markovic is not present... There is no need to regret it, this is also for colleagues who will talk after me about the second law, when there are Mr. Vukmirović and Jancic, representatives of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, who is one of the bearers of these activities, but one of the most important institutions of these activities. Otherwise, there are some other entities provided for by this law, which will participate in the implementation of the census, households and apartments, which are the Geodetic Institute, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and some other republican authorities and institutions, so that we can really talk about this subject in a quality way, with people who are mainly in charge of organising the list. The Republic Bureau of Statistics has made a request to postpone the census, for one practical reason only. The practical reason – no budget appropriations were provided, i.e. in 2010, but there – official data from the Director of the Republic Statistics Office – I do not think that by 8 November no single dinar was paid to the Republic Statistics Office or the Geodetic Office, which was to make some advances related to this job. Listing the population will not be mere information that one of the censusors, or one of the 50,000 members of the census committees, will come into one household and tell him who's here. There's a list here that has eight pages, eight pages to fill out. There's a lot of data here. Responsible and certainly, as it would say, Serbian-radical, I claim that every spoken word of my colleagues who spoke on this subject had full meaning and meaning precisely in relation to this law. If there are eight sides, when there's a list of farms there'll be 16. It is impossible with three words to direct your discussion and talk about what is really a serious topic. When we're done with this list... Or, what are we, what are we going to get all the data, what data will we be able to find when we run the list, and especially later when we get into an analysis related to that list? So, first of all, what is desire and goal -- to determine the exact number of residents living in our country, the territorial spread of that population, the average density of population, the ageing households, which is one of the basic goals, to see where Serbia is going, to see how to stop the disappearance of one city each year. So, dying surpassed birth. A negative balance or balance, if that's what you can say and can say, it's a very sensitive subject. So, over 30,000 people each year in Serbia are less. It's already one alarming piece of information. But the completed list will show us something else, that the environments, those places, that I don't name any municipalities, but there are many in Serbia, which they have officially, according to the 2002 census, by 16,000 to 17,000 inhabitants... If the list now says there are 11,000 inhabitants, will that make someone worried, will that turn on some red light as far as it goes? These are all problems that stand before this state, which are not unknown, but no one seems to want to deal with them seriously. Then, when we list households, which is within the list of population, households and apartments, we will come up with certain data that we will be able to use in the list of agriculture. The functional ability of the population is one very important piece of information that we will be able to obtain in the implementation of this great one and, I would say, popular, but above all very complex action. Only then will he answer the question... The growing number of people whose dissatisfaction with the fact that they do not have a job, that they live in an unsettled society, a society with no perspective, leads to a poor health condition. Perhaps the President of the Assembly could deal with these problems more at this point, and must... I mean, first of all, to your colleagues; certainly not that you're going from where you are (it's good that you came) and that you intervene on something else, because you're really an expert and it would be good. All of these are devastating and painful data that are plowing Serbia today. There was another problem. I would like to ask the director of the Republic Bureau of Statistics: when a census is held in Kosovo and Metohija, how will this be done, in what way? Here, let's not talk about the census in Croatia, in Republika Srpska. Is it true, Mr. Director, that at your invitation the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, on two occasions, has not responded once, that you are talking about issues related to the census? That fact should not be hidden from the MPs, if so, and it would be good to know the public, so let's see how this government treats Kosovo and Metohija. Whatever can be done, in one such action, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija would have to take maximum participation, not to see it as a subject that is not so important. We have repeatedly been on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, where individual provisions have been discussed, i.e. individual amendments submitted to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments, as well as agriculture, and when the debate was in principle, discussed with representatives of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and recommended that some more lists be made in addition to the census. We know that in 1991... It is not true that some agricultural details have not been implemented since 1960. It is true that there has been no agricultural census since 1960 in the classical way, but in 1991, during the census, some of the facts that follow agriculture were also listed. Perhaps the representatives of the Bureau of Statistics deliberately proposed to postpone the list, with the fact that there was not enough resources... I am not happy at all that this action, one of the most popular, I repeat again, in statistics, will be implemented with a donation from the European Union. It's something you know. Now, this year, we know that a regular census will be in 2021. Well, it was known that in 2011, why was the Socially Responsible Government not counting on it and providing funds, but the European Union must provide 10m euros for participants in the field who will perform the list and work? A large number of censusors will be hired. In my opinion, one of the reasons... Of course, the representatives of the Republic Statistics Office have little to do with it, but when they do not receive the funds, they have nothing to do but demand that this activity be moved. I get the impression that this was done on purpose, that the census is approaching some of the next elections in order to hire a large number of political parties, meaning around 50,000 censuses, plus those who will list agriculture. It will be members of political parties and people who will make propaganda, more will promote political parties' programmes than will work on propaganda to implement the census. It's not a problem for someone from the political party to be hired. Members of political parties must not have problems because they belong to a party, but must not be favored. Of course, I agree that the political elite cannot enjoy any privileges. In fact, he should feel one social, political, and every other kind of responsibility on his shoulders. One more question, Mr. Vukmirovic, for you. You could give a quality answer to that. There's no reason to keep your mouth shut. We also proposed to the Committee on Science and Technological Development that, in addition to censusing, the census be conducted and the list of victims of wars between 1990 and 2000. Some, not to say enthusiasts, people who care about having that kind of data did it with us; it was delivered to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Someone said it wasn't accurate data, it wasn't well done. It seems to me that he's experienced recycling or maybe arson at the stake. But this is good data, good time period, that's it, and if you're delaying... So, we're not in favour of postponing the list, I repeat again, but if you delay it, if it's going to be from October 1st to October 15th, you'll have plenty of time to prepare additional forms along the list and that a list of victims can be made between 1990 and 2000. We have this obligation. It is estimated, for now, that between four and five thousand such exist. It's a debt of both these authorities and all those involved in this action to do so. It is the duty of the Messengers of the people. We talk about it publicly, and you're on the move, Mr. Vukmirovic. We'd like you to finish this job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52836	Thank you. Mr. Paja Momchilov, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52837	Now we have a little paradoxical situation that our authorised representative is not responding to objections. Mostly a respected colleague replicates in some way through the time he has, and that's fine, but it's a little strange and unusual that an authorised representative doesn't give us information we'd like to know. I'd just say it again, since I wasn't allowed before, that I think it's necessary through this list of these victims to list. It's been said that it's maltene, insulting the victims. Please, the Jewish people, a great nation, have lists, all the way to one of their victims. That list has been established. The German people, who lost World War II, have all their victims written down. How? In a way like this. It's demographic data. That's what you gotta have. The Germans, what did they do next? The Germans have a list of victims, raped women by Americans from 1944 to 1960. Please, now in Parliament, we respect those who advocate debt to our victims and their relatives who have asked us to raise this issue, that it be through this list, as we see it being delayed, will not be able to be implemented within the ideal time limit. It is not March 31st by chance a critical date, when all normal European countries carry out their lists. From all the various data you've given and pawned, you've always been able to find some flaw, and March 31st is a critical date for this region, and then this was to be implemented. But let us leave this, Serbian Radical Party MPs have made it clear to you that, based on the opinion of experts, to successfully finish the job, in favour of the Serbian state, for the benefit of school children (you promised to introduce computers into schools), and ultimately, the state administration, which can use laptops. If you go this way, classically, I'm not going to say it's primitive, it's also good and valid, but far more will cost and far more will be the pain to get the right data and mistakes will be far more. We from the Serbian Radical Party simply do not discuss destructively. We take our victims with great respect, as well as all innocent victims. One ridiculous verbal acrobatic has been tried to demonstrate in the Assembly that we are rude, and we may be rude when an EU representative comes to us, because of the many things they have done to us and to our country, and also because of these victims, but nobody can tell us that at these years we are hooligans who are disrupting order in the Assembly. There's already been an absurd line that's about to be said "The Parliament, it's me," and that should not be allowed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52838	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Census of POLYOPRIVREDE 2011. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Milorad Buha, together Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pjelić, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, Milorad Krstin, Dobrislav Prelić, Srboljubovljanović, Milan Škrbić and Mirko Munjić, as well as well as an opinion of the Governmental amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. National MP Bozidar Delic, written on 21 March 2011, withdrew his signature from the amendments he submitted with a group of MPs of the Group of MPs to Serbia on members 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52839	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, as well as the previous law, and here the Serbian Radical Party has sent an amendment that we should stick to those terms contained in the basic law. The government's explanation for not accepting the amendment states no funds have been provided. It is not only with this law, but also with many other laws; budgeting by the Government and the Ministry of Finance is not sufficiently taken into account when it comes to what is provided for in the regulations. Here is a concrete example of how it is not taken into account when laws are passed and what consequences arise in financial terms according to the provisions of these laws. So when the law is passed, it is understood that certain funds must be allocated to the list. It is moral to be planned not in the 2011 budget, but in the projections that are being made according to the memorandum two or three years ahead. You do what you do, and this is a concrete example of how you can't work. What's going to happen when we get the results of the list of farms, nobody needs it. It's just newspapers and the public, thinking about the data that's going to be characteristic, and then it goes into the archives and no one opens it anymore. It is even more tragic when certain country projections are being carried out, such as a two-year agriculture development strategy in this ministry. I'm asking you, on the basis of which legal regulations, or data, this strategy is done if the last list was made 50 years ago? For the strategy there are funds and it would be very interesting to come up with data on how much the Ministry will single out for the development of a strategy, which will be an empty letter on paper and will not have the essential importance that any strategy must have. Since the census will be completed by the end of next year, operationally, the data will be 2013 or 2014. Look how late we are. We're late for the government's failure and the finance ministry that didn't provide enough resources in time. There are other strategies, similar character, from which we will draw the data we will get from agriculture. This is done by the Ministry of Finance, Social Policy, etc. Since we won't have that data, we need to stop making that strategy and draining funds, because otherwise, that strategy will be empty to us, so we're going to have to reinvent it after two, three or five years and throw it away again, and we know we don't have enough. So, one government warning: keep an eye on this, this is unserious. This isn't the only example of how funds are being disbursed, and we know that these aren't small funds. As far as agricultural data is concerned, it is very important to enter every house and every household and that these data that we get be complete, clear, celery and give one vision of the future perspective in the area of agriculture. All of this is preceded by a strategic decision by this country to invest in agriculture, and we know that this country is not investing, that we are lagging behind countries in the region, European countries and highly developed countries. If this doesn't come to our senses right now, I think we're gonna lose our farm. We don't invest, young people leave the village, stay older households, which won't give the production the village has to give. I'm sure this will make us smart. If we use everything we get in the field, it'll be an impulse that needs to help agriculture. Without it, we'll lose everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52840	A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, it is unacceptable that these deadlines for the census are changed, i.e. that the census is prolonged. When it comes to agriculture, we think there are a lot of problems, that these problems have accumulated over the past ten years. To be honest, we think this is a kind of cynicism. Fifteen days ago, we chose a new government. Among the objectives of the government, in the memorandum of the government, under point 1 writes – supplying basic life supplies at acceptable prices for all citizens. Then, the dynamic growth of economic activity based on the production of exchangeable goods. Under five, what is and how important for this debate, it is – a greater investment in agricultural production, aimed at higher yields and a higher degree of finalisation of production. So, 15 days ago, the government has defined that it invests much more in agriculture, that it cares much more about agriculture, and, behold, after only 15 days, we have the fact that the list, which is elemental, from which it all starts, from which you can make strategies, some operational plans and that you are dating with some concrete measures in agriculture, is delayed, for God's sake, for one period that is longer than a year. In view of the obligations of the Republic Statistics Office, this literally means that only at the end of 2014 will we have information about what is really going on in agricultural production and what is the real situation in agricultural production. We already have some information today. This is the fact that, for example, from 1994 to 2009, it means 15 years from now, growth in agriculture, in the agricultural sector, is only 1.4%, while at the same time in the world this growth was about 39%. This best shows how much time we have lost and we continue to lose when it comes to any policy in the area of agriculture. If you look at the last fifty years, you can come up with frantic data: that we have increased our agricultural production since 1960 by just not 50 percent and that it has tripled in the world! So we have the fact that, in general, very few decades back, we've invested in agriculture, but it's a very difficult situation in the last ten years. Speaking specifically about this government, I would say that the 2008 budget planned some 4% of the funds, means 27 billion dinars, that already in 2009 it was halved to 2.2% - sixteen billion dinars, something then increased in 2010 because of those milk shortages and the fact that we had not had agricultural products in sufficient quantities, let alone at acceptable prices, to which the government, as I said earlier, had committed 15 days ago. In 2011, according to this budget that we adopted at the end of 2010, the situation didn't matter, we only have 22 billion. So we haven't even reached that amount of funding in 2008 of 27 billion. So, if we consider inflation in the meantime for these three years, the situation is literally catastrophic. To promise farmers anything, from some political initiatives and the desire to be in this election year or pre-election year, is irrelevant, let's just go to someone, it doesn't mean anything, because the situation on the market is catastrophic. We're in a situation where we have problems with milk and bread today. I don't remember the last time we had a frozen export of flour and wheat, and here, this ministry brought that measure ten days ago. For the next three months, we also have the freezing of wheat exports, although production is constantly stagnating from year to year. We come simply to the situation that regardless of the possibilities, regardless of the capacity our agriculture has, they have not been achieved in any part in fact. I would say that the argument for the pawning of the Serbian Progressive Party is that with this list of early, it is not a waste of time, the fact that the situation in the world is changing very quickly, that we are literally coughing for developing countries, and not for these most developed countries, that we have serious technological changes in technological processes, as well as in the organisation of production, where the efficiency of our agricultural production is catastrophic, that literally nothing has been invested in years behind us, nothing serious, anything tangible, anything that would possibly increase production. We have the elemental data that investment per unit of surface across the European Union is growing, and only in Serbia is it falling. With this attitude towards agriculture, we simply have no perspective to be more competitive in the coming period. Also, the fact is that with these statistics dealing with the insight of the situation and the potential of our agriculture, we will not be able to have any serious plan for certain openings of new markets, any fight for new distribution channels for our agricultural production, and that, regardless of the growth of agricultural exports, we will be able to be in a situation that is mostly goods, stock products, products without any additional value, which will depend heavily on the situation on the world market, which is at this point very favourable, but, as everyone knows, the stock market is a very relative concept, the question is how things will take place in some future period. Something important to emphasize is that not all system institutions have done their job. If it had been done, we would not have had this bill today, or these amendments and additions to the Agricultural List Act. So, we must stress, from the opposition, that it is incompetence and irresponsibility, above all this government that took over those obligations when we passed this law. Let me also be a little malice, it may be that it is a desire to cover up all the bad moves we have since 2000 in agriculture at all and in agricultural production. We are today, I think, more conscious than ever, having a ten-year decline in agricultural production. It is also the responsibility of this government for taking over some of the deadlines in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the area of liberalisation, when it comes to the agricultural product market, which were very harmful to agricultural production, and as shown today and as shown. Some agricultural products that we can do for some reasonable, I would say even competitive, prices that we produce for our market – we import. So there's a government responsibility in that part, too. Certainly, farmers and those who live on agricultural production, and there are estimated to be close to four million, whether, as an additional activity, four million Serbian citizens living in 4,500 settlements, these people are in any case discriminated against. Just a few days ago, we had the fact that, when it comes to ordinary social assistance, we introduced some restrictions on only half a hectares, as a condition that those citizens who have agricultural land below that could count on social aid, and all those beyond that did not, regardless of the fact that productivity and efficiency in our agricultural production are well below some global averages. For SNS, of course, there is one political interest, an interest in getting these jobs done as soon as possible. I think that comes from the fact that we are a party that has great voter confidence and that is expected to change that is inevitable. These changes mean that you have an elementary database so that you can start with operational plans and programmes for the recovery of the entire economy, including agriculture itself. This is certainly some reason for us from the Serbian Progressive Party, that after these elections we are in a situation where things in Serbia change better, especially in agriculture, because all those who were reasonable in the previous period, invest in agriculture, have a significantly more stable standard of living for their citizens. We today, unfortunately, just because we missed almost all the chances in agriculture, we have a situation that, on the one hand, because of the inability to continue borrowing, and, on the other hand, because of the very small volume of production, we have too high agricultural prices. I would only remind you of the prices of sugar, which are the prices of bacon, which are the prices of bread. They will be significantly higher when this grain exports are defrosted, unfortunately, and the standard of our citizens will be significantly compromised, regardless of how and how we have potential. But we don't have a serious policy, we don't have a serious access to agricultural production, and unfortunately, we don't have a responsible government that would take advantage of those potentials. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted these amendments and of course cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52842	Do you follow this amendment, Mrs. Radovic? Yeah. Here, you have a word. National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52843	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. We have already said in the principle debate that it is good that the list of farms is being carried out, for the first time since 1960, it is not clear to me, that I also asked in the principle debate, I did not get an answer to that question, why is the list of farms not being carried out at the same time as the census? I believe that this would save us significant financial resources, and we would be able to learn the results of the list of farms long before it is now foreseen. I would like to point out, primarily, that this list of farms is delayed not only for six months, as is the case with the census, but for a year. For one agrarian state, which Serbia should represent, I think it would be of great importance to have information on how many agricultural holdings currently exist in Serbia, how much its land fund, how many farmland there are in Serbia, and we could get that data as soon as possible if the list of farms were made together with the census. The Serbian village, which is being shut down and disappearing, is the best witness of agriculture in Serbia today. The rural population is mass-migrating towards larger urban environments and forecasts that out of 4,800 Serbian villages, as far as we have today, for a decade and a half to be less than 1,200 or 25%, only because the average age in them today is over 60 years. Today in Serbia, there are 200 villages where there are not a single population that is under 20 and there is also, if I can even say there is, 190 villages without any single population. Given the fact that Serbia is an agrarian state, agriculture should be Serbia's export and development chances, but it is still necessary to redefine our agrarian policy. If agriculture were indeed a strategic branch of the economy, we wouldn't be in a situation, it would be unacceptable if it were to be singled out from the republican budget only 2.5%. The result of this fact, as well as the fact that the state does not care about agriculture, is that today we have shortages of basic food products, such as milk, oil, sugar. Then, the result of that fact is that our cattle stock is shrinking in a huge number every year. The result of this fact is that we have uncontrollably moving prices on the market and the rapid accumulation of basic food products, which is ultimately the biggest generator of inflation. In the last year alone, the stock fund decreased by 110.000, and what is the situation in livestock is best shown by the fact that out of 9,000 tonnes of June, the amount of quota approved by the European Union, Serbia managed to export or fill only one fifth. Serbia has no strategy when it comes to agriculture. We don't even have land policy, which is the basis of agrarian reform. Today, agricultural land production in Serbia, especially in rural areas, is exclusively for individual consumption, not for the market. Every year, on average, about 600,000 hectares remain unprocessed in Serbia, perhaps one in a number of reasons why Serbia today imports what it has never imported in its history, which are basic agricultural products. It is also alarming that last year alone, we managed to import a billion-and-three hundred million-euro agricultural products, and four hundred tons of raspberry, which has always been a Serbian brand and our export card! In addition to somehow achieving a surplus in food exports, Serbia is expected to soon become dependent on food imports. Today we have this situation in the country because, I repeat, the state is not paying enough attention and is not taking care of agriculture. What is the best way to do this is to show that Serbia is the only country in Europe where we have 0.6 hectares of farmland per capita. Imagine, if we could just take advantage of a part of it, what our development possibilities would be! If we really care about having a review of the structure of national agriculture within a certain period of time, I think it would be very important for this list of farms to be carried out as soon as possible, or, if not within that deadline, at least together with the census. Please answer the question why it's not possible. I accept that I may not have enough information about this, but I am asking for an answer from an present minister or anyone from the Government who is closer to this topic, to tell us why it is not possible to make two lists at the same time, because I think there would be certain savings that are not small and that we would be able to have the results of the agricultural census in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52844	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milorad Krstin and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52845	I'd just like a little bit. We have submitted amendments to all the members of this law, I think the explanation for the previous amendment was quite enough. So, mostly these deadlines proposed by law are changing. There is no need to report for other amendments to the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52846	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural List Act deletes, first of all, for the reason that we, when last year's Household, Apartment and Agriculture Act was adopted, were declared to be one of these two United Lists, but we also warned that the census would probably not be implemented within the time limit you had foreseen. In addition, the fact is that at a meeting of the Bureau for the List, held on 14 December 2010, a decision was made to postpone the census due to a lack of financial resources to implement the census, as there is no funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and we simply will not be able to implement this census. It's a bit of a discussion, this meeting was held on 14 December, and the budget was adopted later. So, they warned you in time that the funds for something like this wouldn't be there. The Serbian Radical Party also thought the funds for the Ministry of Agriculture should be higher when adopting the budget. We warned you in continuity that many problems would occur when our agricultural production was at stake, but you simply remained deaf and silent on our criticisms. We only reduced the deficit for some 30 billion dinars to our amendments to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with items such as specialized services, contract services, items that practically serve all ministers for election campaigns. These are the items that serve ministers, which our people would say – left hand, right pocket. There is simply no responsibility to our citizens. It's more than embarrassing, above all, what will be the priorities of this reconstructed government. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and now Minister of Economy, said one of the top priorities is the supply of basic life supplies at acceptable prices for all citizens. Imagine, in a country that has this kind of agrarian potential... And we are all aware of the fact that the price of agricultural products is now, that the scarcity of potatoes, our goal was to make it between 15 and 20 dinars the maximum price, and today the price of potatoes has already reached 100 dinars, that the wheat has been bought at 13 dinars, that today is 30 dinars; that we are not talking about a cattle fund, which is more than half. Simply, and with all the good will of the Ministry, it couldn't have affected the improvement in our agriculture, because our agriculture was primarily ruled by a monopoly, something the previous minister resisted here, trying in some way to resist, but later, when he realized it, when he saw it on the ground and when he started calling out certain tycoons, people holding a monopoly in our primary agricultural production, in our conditor production, in our processing... Maybe that's one of the reasons he didn't suit you now. The Serbian Radical Party has no problem saying when something is good, but it is certainly one of the biggest problems for our agriculture that you did not respect our amendments and suggestions. That's why we're in a really difficult and inexplicable situation right now. You say in the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of these laws that, above all, the objectives of the agricultural list are to obtain a comprehensive review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture, the production of databases, internationally comparable, based on key agricultural features. That's what we're pretty much afraid of, and it kind of worries us the most. Your EU friends want to have accurate records and accurate knowledge of how much we have processed areas, because they are absolutely aware that our country is the most fertile in Europe and that it should be used, above all for their interests, besides wanting to place their products on our market, products that are of dubious quality. You say that, according to EU regulations and standards, the situation in our agriculture will change greatly. That's what we're afraid of and what we warned the public about here. It is, in fact, companies that want to take over the entire market and control of agrarians across Europe. There is, above all, the company Monsanto, which we talked about and warned about in time. In 2009, the United States of The Ministry of Agriculture has allowed them to work on the field of view at our institutes, which are recognizable around the world when it comes to our seed production. They've been allowed to do tours for modified corn and modified potatoes. And not to mention that the modified soybeans on our market have been present since 2002 and that even now the coverage of soybeans in Serbia has reached an incredible 30%. The agriculture ministry was engaged in some way last year, but only by order and has been doing the job separately. The fact is they couldn't cover the whole field, but they did it wrong in municipalities where DS wasn't in power, right on a warrant. But what's interesting, and in those municipalities where they destroyed soybeans there were local officials from the Democratic Party, from the former G17 Plus party. They didn't happen to have anyone, and they were one of the stronger producers. All this is clear to this people and we are convinced that he will know that he will evaluate it, first of all, in some subsequent elections. As for the list of agriculture and this delay, if it has to be postponed, and you'll probably be delayed, because we see that the minister doesn't want to get involved in the debate, I assume he has a warrant to refuse all amendments, we suggest that when you do a list, you hire people for a list of agriculture, because we see that you don't want to unite these two lists, that you hire people from professions, from agriculture, above all agricultural students, all the agronomies that are unemployed, and there's a lot of them, all the unemployed agricultural technicians and all those people who understand agriculture, because we think that the basic criterion for people who make the list will be party membership. That's what we're convinced of. At the very end of today's presentation, I would like to say that it may not be so bad that this list is delayed, because not only the SRS, but the whole public expects the verdict to be delivered to our president on May 4th in The Hague, and when he returns, we are convinced that the list will not work in the way you are doing now, but will work within the borders of Serbia that belong to it, and that is Karlovac-Carlobag-Ogulin-Virovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52848	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52849	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3, requesting that deadlines be moved, but in advance. The problem with this government is that the biggest problem is the discrepancy between what he says and what he does. So when, for example, this government says that agriculture is her priority, on the other hand, we have the fact that the rural population has never lived harder than today, we have a shortage of oil, sugar, enormously increased the price of potatoes, then, that the number of cattle, or stock, regardless of what kind of domestic animals it is, is constantly falling. Then, we have a huge discrepancy between what was to be held in 2012 a list of agriculture and what was delayed in 2011 for a year, while we hear that there is a strategy for the development of agriculture. We don't really know, and we're supposed to get data from this list, is Serbia a country that can feed five or six times as many people as it has today, or is it a country that needs to import more food than it has imported so far? Because I have to remind you that we're still getting information and warnings from the UN Food Organization that warns us that we're going to become food addicts very quickly, and we're talking about actually being a agricultural country. So, a job that hasn't been done in 50 years. The last list of farms was made in 1960. Since then, we have virtually no relevant and new data, and these data are important to us and how important we plan, and the strategy involves planning. All this discrepancy between the strategy that we are building I don't know on the basis of which data and the list of agricultural delays, and it would be very important for us to get that information so that we can talk about what our priority is in agriculture, will lead to that one job that had to be completed in 2011 is delayed for 2012, and by the time we get the data, it will be 2013 before the end, probably because these data have been processed for a very long time. It is very important to say that we from the Democratic Party of Serbia have asked the question why these two lists, even if at the moment we do not have enough money, do not go together. It's simple, it'd be good. I know the arguments, and I read it in an explanation, which is why one list follows the other, but these are really enormous conditions. You have a situation that in the 2011 budget, you have not defined the funds for the agricultural list at all, and on the other hand, you have the information that this list will cost a lot. It's just that it would be good for us to get that information and your answers, because based on those answers, then we can make a further story about this list. So this list should cover all households dealing with agriculture. The questions will refer to the area of the farmed land, which the crop species cultivates, whether they have livestock stock, how many cattle, bee hives, whether they use machinery and what they use, whether they use fertilisers, whether they amount to products on the market and others. I think that these are data that are important to the country of Serbia, but I am afraid that this government is manipulating the delay precisely because the data it will receive through the answers to such questions, which are typical issues and cannot be different, will not be to the benefit of this talking government (again it talks from the beginning of the non-compliance) that agriculture is its priority, and on the other hand it destroys agriculture completely selflessly and very actively. We know there will be a test list of farms. That's good because that's how triage and questions are done and everything else, but it seems to be a waste of money. Because, as the people in charge of implementing this agricultural list say, there is a fundamental question of money. The budget didn't predict the funds. We hope to get funds from some pre-accession funds, but that is a big question, because the information that is being heard in this country, and the media are transferring them from various statesmen, ambassadors and other people in the NGO sector, say that we will wait a little longer for pre-accession funds. It seems to me our amendment has gone too far. We've moved the schedules. We believe they can be realised at the beginning of 2012, not to wait for the end of 2012. These are valuable data, I underline it once again, and I think it's really very ugly, not to say harmfully, to manipulate in this way the data that and how it means for the country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52850	The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prostrem Group of MPs to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the debate on the home Board of Science and Technological Development was about this law on the list of agricultural goods. There is also the director, Dr Vukadinovic, who has always tried to answer certain questions and certain problems on the Committee. But now I see that sometimes certain facets detest the fact that certain colleagues are talking about the problem in agriculture. It is also very important, and perhaps one of the crucial questions about the census and agriculture. My amendment was to delete the member, with the aim of not delaying the list for agriculture until 2012, but to be part of the census. What was I gonna say? That with a group that's going to make a census, there's a group that's going to do a list of agricultural goods. This is very important, although we know that these two areas are somehow connected and that it is impossible for the same person to list both the population and agriculture because of certain organizational... but also a better list. We want to look at the state of Serbia today. Many of the authorities that have ruled since 1945 have not responded... As you can see, in 1960, the last list of agricultural goods was made, because these statistics were used for the appropriate purposes when it was appropriate for them, that is, when they wanted to show the Serbian citizens how much they sown in Serbia, so it turns out that statistics better know how much they sown in Serbia, how much I sowed wheat, rather than how much I sown. This information shows that many did not respond. But the time has come, apparently pressured you by the EU, that you must also do this statistics, to be seen first demographically, because it turns out that Serbia and citizens of Serbia are in the last place of age; so we belong to the oldest nations in the world. As for agricultural goods and what Serbia has today, I must tell you – it is a kind of disaster. In fact, it's a piece of information that says that certain authorities never thought about the village or the peasants. Here and now, when there has been a reconstruction of this government, in order to improve Serbia, you are in fact making or the Minister of Agriculture makes one move, which is – to ban the export of wheat, in order to bring down the price of bread with the fall of the price of wheat. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you how long will a peasant keep social peace in this country? How long are you going to rob a peasant? How long will you fake what he owns? It'll show this statistic, that the peasant stayed naked and that there's still time to take his skin off his back. Because there's nothing left for him. Who's crazy about doing bad things today? He's the only one left to work for nothing, he's got so much left in his pocket, he can't even buy a rope so he can walk in his field and his garden. That's the problem. You're talking, you want to know how many conditions cattle are. We want to know what Serbia has today, cows, sheep, chickens. You can see how much imports from the Latin American countries were; agriculture, by the way, destroyed it with low prices. You know the benefits only have that shopping lobby and those mobsters that are importing today. A colleague just talked about high prices. No, they're not high prices today, no wheat, no potatoes, no agricultural food products. No, it's just real prices. If you look at what is being imported into this country today, everything and everything is being imported – what we could produce. It is a shame that everything that can be found on the tables, everything that can be found in the green markets across Serbia, is now being imported. This shows the willingness of each government, especially during the ten years of this Dossmanian government, whose only route was the European Union, to import food, to import everything from the European Union, and to shut down the market, the Serbian market, or to shut down Serbian production. The market didn't go out because you were importing goods from other countries. Now, this led to the destruction of many agricultural goods by criminal privatisation, many combinations that produced food. I must tell you honestly, in the 1960s and 1970s, as a child, as a young man, I watched how many wheat in the silos came to the combines from these joint estates, and I ask you today, where is this wheat, where is it done? Those silos are gone. We know how these silos exist and how the wheat is exported. The trade lobby imported wheat from Chechnya, which still has radioactive matter in it, to benefit our population, and to export healthy wheat to the European Union! We export it where we want to feed healthy food to others, and genetically modified food and food, which is questionable, we want to feed our population. That's what we want to keep social peace. Ladies and gentlemen, we say - there is no milk in Serbia. There's no milk, of course there won't be milk, because all the repromatter that makes milk... You know how, you can make anything, but milk can't, milk makes cows. You have to feed her, you have to have her to make milk. Now, that's the problem we don't know today. Or, as they said, a minister for agriculture who wants to fight monopolies has been appointed. I'm asking you, who created the monopolies? Well, you created them, because you're actually monopolies. Many of you, in all the functions you hold, are the owners of many companies, many companies. That's the problem. You left the peasant, you left the martyr, you left the man who had run out of bread. He got hungry today. All of you here are fed up and strive to please the great cities, to be peace, to preserve social peace. No one asks how and how a peasant will sow this year, because as he sows, so he will reap. That's the problem, and I'm sure you'll never talk about those problems. Remember villages and peasants only when elections are made. Then you rush into the village, then offer him subsidies, then you promise him pension and disability insurance, health insurance, you'll forgive him all that, just to round you up and get you back in power. When you come a few months later, you ride the merry peasant again, and you move on to battle. In 1946, proletarians came to power, and grandchildren and sons of those same proletaries are tycoons who are walking Serbia today and who want to destroy Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52852	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52853	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already used here to listening to all kinds of nonsense and things that have absolutely nothing to do with facts, but I think it is unacceptable, when an opportunity is used to talking about amendments, to bring out false things that can seriously frighten citizens of Serbia. So we in this assembly have passed laws prohibiting the import and production of modified food, which have established institutions that deal with the control of everything that is being imported here. I don't think it's really possible to spread fear and panic here among citizens that someone allows genetically modified food to be imported harmful to people's health, because we've made it very clear to the laws, to choose institutions and to make it impossible to set strict rules like that. I really think it's inadmissible to hear stories like this from Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52854	I'd just like to remind you, of course, you'll get by the Rules of Procedure, it's not a dispute, but only one MP can do the same thing. Therefore, many of you have applied, here first, Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52855	Perhaps this problem arose this morning when you had this delegation giving you orders and destroying Serbian peasants and agriculture. Madam President, I also report as a member of the parliamentary group, and above all as vice president, under Article 107. Although I'm not sitting next to you, you were obliged to warn Mrs. Kolundji not to use offensive expressions. She has injured the dignity of the National Assembly, which is Article 107, and the magistrate, MP of the SRS, Srboljub Zivanovic. I don't want her, and that my dignity is allowed according to the Rules of Procedure doesn't allow me to address her after this presentation, because I am proud that there is a man in the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party who is a master of science, and soon the doctor of science, who lives in the village of Jelenca, five kilometers from Šapca, who has the largest sheep and pigs in his village, who, unlike all of these here who come and whose congregation of excursions, gets up every morning at four or five hours, depends, processes 20 hectares of his country, lives fairly from his work, fights for his ideals, fights for his ideals, the most love for Serbia and SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj, the party president. I do not allow you to allow it in the future, and I do ask that in the day for the vote of the Assembly it be made known, that in this way it offends the dignity of such a man, the representative of the people, the representative of the peasants, the tortured peasants, and he spoke out of his soul and argued that in the past ten years you have satanicized Serbian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52856	Well, strictly speaking, Mr. Master didn't stick to the agenda. Also, I'd like to say I don't think he's the injured member you called for. I think dialogue, and even on topics that are not on the agenda, if it is estimated that there is room for verbal intervention, is desirable. That's all Mrs. Kolundji pointed to. If you think there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, then in the day of the vote, we'll make a statement. Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52857	I intervene under Article 27(2), which says the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. It was amazing your explanation, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, given to counterpart Natasa Jovanovic just now. It's like none of us were sitting here in the O.R. It's not that we don't mind dialogue. On the contrary, we in the SRS insist on dialogue with both ruling majority colleagues and representatives of the ministry, but you will not dialogue. You have almost disabled the dialogue with the Rules of Procedure. If we want to replicate sometimes, you say – yes, but if you subtract from the time of the parliamentary group. This wasn't about dialogue, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Maybe you didn't hear this either, like the other day about cannibalism, like you said in the paper. You should have heard Mrs Nada Kolundzija say that her colleague, Srboljub Zivanovic, is talking nonsense. You give us warnings, there's a stenogram, you give us warnings for much more benign expressions. So, we are for being able to communicate, we are for telling each other what we have to say, but this is absolutely true. If it's stupid that all the media are talking about changing the law and being legalised in Serbia, which already exists, but I stress - legalized, genetically modified organisms, then it's someone else's stupidity. So, what you're... We heard Stefan Phil order you seven points this morning, what you have to do. It was not explicit, but the EU asks you to poison people with genetically modified organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52858	It's been two minutes. Mrs. Radeta, the key term was true and false, and you've experienced that stupidity is a key term. I think Mrs. Kolundzija has been very correct in explaining everything that stands and that in the end our citizens are estimating. The public's transmission allows us to do so, and there's really no reason for us to de-polize. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, do you want Parliament to make a statement in the voting day on whether the injured Rules of Procedure have been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52859	I would, and I would ask the secretary to bring a stenogram to read what Mrs. Kolundji said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52860	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52861	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I am a graduate engineer of agriculture and, thank God, God has given me that I still hear well and remember what I hear and I have heard very well in one of the exhibitions, when it comes to the list in agriculture in Serbia, that someone has mentioned that we from Chechnya are importing radioactive wheat. This is based on the amendment, for all those who aren't sent, who aren't focused enough to follow the debate, and maybe they went to change their shirts while I was talking. So I listened very carefully to what the previous speakers said about this amendment and I heard a very good sentence that Serbia imports radioactive wheat from Chechnya. One of the largest wheat exporters in the world is Russia. Recently, Mr. Vladimir Putin visited Serbia. I am sorry that the representatives of a political party did not accuse him of exporting radioactive wheat to Serbia, but the country passed the Food Safety Act, as will the legislation on the list of agricultural land, land and land, as will be passed by the census law. So, all these laws are passed to protect the citizens of Serbia, not to have anyone import radioactive wheat here, especially that this inappropriately accuses the Russian Federation government of exporting radioactive wheat to Serbia, which is also very dangerous for our relations with Russia, and it is also very dangerous for us to panic among our citizens. As everyone knows, Serbia has currently banned the export of wheat. The Russian Federation did so last year with an announcement by Prime Minister Putin in August of the month. I will just point out that Serbia has not imported wheat from Russia this year, has not imported wheat from either Chechnya and that Serbia has exported its wheat because we have produced enough food, which you will also see in the list of agricultural land and farmland, how much wheat we have produced. I ask all speakers not to spoil our friendly relations with Russia in this way, not to accuse Russia of providing Serbia with radioactive wheat, not to accuse the authorities in the Republic of Serbia that Serbia is in some way poisoning its citizens with some radioactive wheat, because we have the Food Safety Act and, unlike some, we are taking great care of food safety, but also of the safety of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52862	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivanovic? No, I don't. ) Participation by amendment? No, I don't. Replica? Yeah. You weren't really offended, you weren't misunderstood. There's no basis for replication. Dobrislav Prelic, do you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Does anyone advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? He's got a head start. (Serboljub Zivanovic: Replica. There's no basis for replication, we're done. (Srboljub Zivanovic:According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) Mr. Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52863	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to explain a lot of things to a lot of people, but you probably can't explain it to someone... (President: Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you are calling on. ) Article 104, I said. I wanted the list of the population, or the list of agricultural goods to be transparent, to be public, so that no statistical...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52864	You don't have a word. You've called on Article 104, which actually regulates the replica. Mr. Flea, are you advertising the Rules of Procedure or are we done? No, I don't. ) Please cooperate correctly, most often we succeed. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52865	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first conclude that the government's representative in the O.R. is missing. So this is about not knowing the subject, which is possible, it is true, and there is also possible that there is no interest in the official representative of the government for this agenda point. We've seen this before, how the government's representatives behave as regards the defence of individual laws. The very fact that the last list of agriculture in Serbia was done 50 years ago is enough to say that this job is urgent. It is unacceptable for you to say in your explanation that there is no money in the budget and that this list of agriculture is therefore delayed for a year. Even more important is the fact that registered agricultural holdings have a total of 15% of the agricultural area. This suggests that this job does not suffer delays and should be approached as quickly as possible. It is certainly necessary to say a few words about the situation in agriculture. What has this government done for agriculture, especially in the last few months? So she replaced one minister, and she got another minister, and she got nothing on helping farmers. In 2009, however, subsidies from the agrarian budget for independent agricultural holdings were discussed, but these subsidies were mainly granted to farmers. That is why Serbia's aggression today has no milk in Serbia. This is why there is a shortage of certain agricultural products in Serbia today, which is why daily agricultural products are being collected in Serbia. Agrar in Serbia is plagued by one question, which is how "the purse and the bow" of our peasants have passed. So, when those subsidies were shared, I told you earlier, that's what the hobby farmers got. We had a chance to see how, now formerly, the Minister of Agriculture was dealing with a hobby. Instead of dealing with serious agriculture, he was out of a hobby, when he was government minister, spraying mosquitoes and ticks in January and February, counting them, and that's the government's attitude towards agriculture. It's the government's relationship when it's supposed to determine one factual state, and we're talking about agriculture as the most important resource of the state. When there is no delay, when the job is urgent, to know the real situation in Serbia, then it is said there is no money in the budget. Why isn't there money in the budget? Because the budget is unrealistic, because it rests on haired and falsified data, because the budget is spent on other things, and there is no money for law enforcement and for implementing decisions. Then there's talk here of a responsible government. Here's how the government is responsible, because we won't even know in a year the real situation in Serbia's agrarian. We'll spend money from EU funds, which we probably won't get, because we've taken money from these funds before and spent it in a non-transparent way. All of this creates a complete picture of an unsettled society and of an irresponsible government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52866	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52867	It is a very interesting debate on both draft laws, on the Agricultural List Act and the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2011. We don't really know what the problem is, why you don't let the amendments be spoken and the MP says what he thinks he should say. You were not there in the afternoon, we had problems – we must not mention the refugee list, we must not mention the problem of citizenship for the Serbs from Montenegro, we must not mention anything that is crucial to the application of these laws. Today we have a problem if we mention genetically modified organisms. We remember the time when Mrs Ivana Dulic Markovic was Minister of Agriculture, when we spoke in that building, and there your MPs, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, spoke about genetically modified organisms that are being introduced into Serbia. Everyone remembers the company "Monsanto", Mrs. Dulic Markovic's co-operation with the company. The biggest problem in that part was right around Sapca, where our MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, is. He was also talking about it, because it's some kind of interspace between two lists. So very interesting for the application of this law. It's also a fact, and we can't close our eyes before we close, we're informed by the media that it's waiting for us again. Sasha Dragin has already announced a change of law. Probably this current minister will do it. You know, when you listen to the blind orders of this File or any of the EU officials running through here and you listen to them calmly and follow what they tell you, then we need to be careful and make sure that anything can happen. You here have an amendment that speaks of the deadlines for the agricultural list. We also have our amendment, which is the same, the amendment of the SRS. It's the same point, it's the same point, we just don't accept this shift of deadline, because your amendments to the law only apply to the shift of the time limit. It's interesting that you don't give the same explanation. You say: "Amendment is not accepted", you said when it came to the amendment of Milorad Buhe, "because the reason for the delay in the list of agricultural products provided for by the List Act in November 2011 is to postpone the census, households and apartments, since there is a causal link between the two lists, i.e. that, based on the 2011 census, there is a framework for the list of family holdings in the agricultural list. “ This is very unserious and irresponsible. Then, when DSS colleagues submit a similar amendment, it is only the second date, you say, "Amendment is not accepted because the data collected by the list refers to the last agricultural year, and as agricultural work is mostly less burdened in the autumn, the list will begin immediately after the year observed will end. “ Is it possible that when you passed the law that we are changing now, the minister did not know when the agricultural year ended, when the agricultural work ended? So you really insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, insult the intelligence of MPs. Say, we will not make a list because they do not give us, wait for other conditions to be created to execute a list in the false state of Kosovo, and to be conducted by representatives of that false state, not UNMIK in order to be normal in accordance with Resolution 1244. Say, we will not make a list in Vojvodina until we see what happens, to form a duchy nation, whether it will be recorded in the next list. Tell the Serbian citizens openly, you will not be doing any work that is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, but only on the orders of this File or any "file" that makes you sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52868	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group in the same text. The word is Mr. Skrbic. You've got nineteen minutes and thirty seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52869	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia and respected Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I cannot take the impression by listening to all this that whenever anyone from the EU comes, whether File or some sixth-class official, you are all standing calmly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52870	Excuse me, you stood still.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52871	I'm asking you to warn Mrs. Kolundji because she's throwing it away while I'm talking. Now I'm going to see if you're going to do it, if you're going to show that kind of democracy that you're boasting about. Did you warn Mrs. Kolundji because she threw it at me?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52872	I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52873	Are you counting this on me at the time, this fling of Mrs. Colundge, which you didn't, by the way, even warn?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52874	Mr. MP, you can't have a dialogue. You got the word and I'm asking you not to have a dialogue. It's just correct, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52875	I have also started, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and today we have stood proudly, defiantly showing everything we have to show for this European Union, and we never change our attitude. It's Serbia. Serbia knows that and therefore respects us more and more people are coming to us. Even those who have left the SRS return, because we are worthy and do not change our policies. So, whatever you're setting yourself up for us, this will obviously be another attempt at a failed list. I will tell you why, for it is impossible to respect all that you state, what you delay and separate. After the list is completed and after the list of agriculture you will receive, gentlemen of the Ministry or of the Bureau of Statistics, I see there were now two, Vukmirović and Jancic, incorrect data, of course. Once again, I will mention what I often mention here in the Assembly, and I keep saying it, unfortunately without effect, Serbia has no defined limit yet. Unfortunately, that, gentlemen of the statistics, is true. How exactly are you going to record it when, on catastrian maps, I repeat, from the 19th century, and I repeat, of course, and every time I repeat, because that is true, we have about 400 hectares of land, only in the area where I come from, the unsolved territory that Croatia is looking for, persistently? What we have on the other side is not to mention, not to ask, as if no one in this country should touch this topic. There is exclusively agricultural land, agriculture, property, facilities in that undefined territory. So nothing has been defined. It'll be an incorrect piece of information to be published after a year or two, statistics will say what it has. What until then? It's all going to be incorrect. These are facts and this amendment was another one in a series of us from the SRS Group, which had to be accepted, not just because it was written by one of the radicals. Serbian citizens recognize that, be assured, you of the ruling majority. What about the census and reports from Kosovo and Metohija? It's a taboo topic, it's a forbidden topic, respected citizens. It is obvious, respected citizens of Serbia, that everything depends on people from the government and their good will to organise and help agriculture, i.e. people who do this, not that we keep working on some kind of recommendation that comes to us right from that European Union. You can laugh all you want, but here's the answer to why my amendment was rejected. So, I'm talking about the recommendations that come from the EU, to work on the recommendations of world programmes that, I'm sure, adapt everything for their own benefit and for their own profit. What they want is good. We can hang a cat on the tail. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, it is said, among other things, that I am not reading everything, that the amendment is rejected because of the scale and significance of both lists and that these two major activities cannot be implemented at the same time. The recommendation, says the World Agricultural List Programme (meaning another recommendation) is to implement the list of farms over a period of up to one year from the census. There's always someone talking to us, and we're blindly listening, and that's the problem with this Serbia. Not only in this law, but in the hundreds of laws we have passed in a hurry, which the Assembly has passed. When he's willing to get rid of something, he can get rid of it. An example, respected citizens of Serbia, and you ladies and gentlemen MPs, is Holland, when there is good will, when something is organized. Why don't you look up to this country of the European Union? The Netherlands only has 60 sunny days a year. The Netherlands is burying the sea to obtain agricultural land. The Netherlands feeds half of Europe. In the Netherlands, it's the strongest horticulture in Europe. They're turning the sea into fertile land. An example of France, as France thinks about milk, because someone mentioned milk earlier, milk shortages, is a state subsidy, which helps a farmer 40%, and therefore the largest dairy producers in Europe, care for their farmer who produces food. We have a God-given, and we don't know how to use it. Not because we don't know, but simply because it's not someone's interest. Someone's working against this country. Because it all depends on the people, the ones who are in power, or the majority of 126 who are going to say that this is not Serbia or I don't know, who can bring anything with those 126 votes. You see, in that European Union, in which you swear, everything is organized. You've been bringing us in for ten years, and who knows when that's gonna be. Why is there at least one segment of all this, from all these law-abiding laws that have been passed, not like that European Union? It doesn't look like anything's been destroyed in this country, unfortunately. More and more unemployed, agriculture has been destroyed, the peasant doesn't know what to sow anymore, and he's not sure about anything, he's not safe about import seeds or protecting the country, because everything on the market is suspicious. It's just that it'll all come out quickly and come out. You, not personally, Mrs. Djukic, I'm not talking to you, you gentlemen from the parliamentary group, just act like it, the citizens of Serbia are watching this, it won't take long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52876	Mrs. Verica Radeta is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52877	And that's Article 7. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Indeed, on behalf of the SRS Group, I must express my satisfaction that we have obviously achieved an effect both on Mr. Phil and on all of you. Yes, we stood today while your employer File spoke, we stood dressed in shirts on which the figure of Vojislav Seselj and the message "Serbia wants Seselj". We're basically... (President: Mrs Radeta, you cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure. You have referred to Article 7.) Article 107, so I'm not crazy, woman. Listen, did she call article seven?- I'm sorry. (President: I think you said 7.) You don't hear well, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. (President: we'll look at the stenographic notes. Then continue to explain. () Do you think that such a mistake can happen to me when it comes to the Rules of Procedure? (President: I am afraid of the infallible. I am not infallible, of course, but such a mistake cannot happen to me and you know it well. So, yes, we were standing today in T-shirts with the image of Dr Vojislav Seselj and the message "Serbia wants Seselj". We're... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52878	I'm sorry, I have to tell you anyway. You have called upon a member who says that a session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP... (Miss Radeta, from the city: 107? ....................................................................................................... Yes, the use of offensive expressions, the presentation of facts and the assessment of private life. You abuse the Rules of Procedure and please, so I don't give the sanctions, please don't speak again. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Donka Bankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52879	Thank you. Article 5 of the amendment and of the amendment refers practically to Article 26 of the existing law which is being amended. The member speaks of deadlines and refers to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, when the deadlines for public publication are results. Point 1) reads - the first results of the institute are required to publish within 30 days of the date of completion of the agricultural list. Point 2) says – the final results of the census are published in the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014, i.e. here is given a period of two years to finally publish the results of the agricultural list. In our amendment, we propose that this deadline is one year, simply because we believe that the two-year deadline, in order for the results to finally be settled, is quite long. The development of a strategy on agricultural development is under way, or at least an old strategy is revised, so the data provided by this list is very important and without these initial data you cannot practically do any serious strategy or serious plan. Of course, the legislator refused. And in the debate in principle and when the basic laws and their amendments and additions were discussed, we talked about that because of the funding problem of these two lists, this census and the census of the population, households and dwellings, this should have been united and we see no reason why these two lists could not be completed on one cost. It is true that the censusors would have a longer job, so there would be some more information, but when the censuser's training is under way for both lists, then there would be a lot of savings, the same job would not be done twice. Of course, the census, households and apartments would be extended to the issues foreseen in this list of agriculture. Among other things, there are data on the structure of agricultural holdings, locations, land funds, categories of agricultural land use, land leases, crop areas, number of trees, wine vines, etc. So, we don't see any reason why a censuser who would go to the village, then, to the agricultural ownership, would take some general data for the census... Why don't you spread that list of questions and get an answer to this. In this way, two very similar jobs, both very expensive, are done at different times. We don't think it's rational and economic behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52880	Thank you. The 6th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52881	Thank you. We are witnessing that today on these two draft laws, therefore, the population census law and the agricultural list bill bill, we had quite, let me say, a spark. I have the impression that this is the most because for many today it was "the sacred day of File European", but that too has passed, and we will return to this amendment, I think it is the last amendment for today, which I have asked for Article 6. The bill is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the postponement of the list of agriculture you are proposing by this bill has absolutely no excuse. The reasons you state just don't have any excuse. You say in your reasons: "On the road to accession to the European Union, the Republic of Serbia has to adapt to a series of EU rules and standards, which will greatly change the situation in our agriculture." I think this is a key sentence in your reasons, and I'd say it's a key thing to deny, or to pay more attention to. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Government, will the European regulations change your situation in our agriculture? Will he change the state for at least one iota? After that, will cows in Serbia give more milk, will coke perhaps start carrying two eggs a day or sheep to give the lamb three lambs a year? After the adoption of this and the adoption of such regulations on a hectare of the duchy fertile land, will 15 tons of wheat be born, or might our vegetables then be able to get closer to the uncircumcised Dutch? No, none of this is true. This is why I believe that this amendment should have been accepted, that it was not necessary to postpone the list of agriculture by one hour, that it should have been done earlier, that concrete measures should have been taken to try to save our agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serb village is in deep agony. The Serbian village faces a disappearance. Life is being extinguished in many Serbian villages. That's one really fragrant piece of information. Estimates go to the point where if nothing is done, 700 Serb villages that have below 100 inhabitants will disappear in ten years, with an average of over 65 years. Those who once fed this country, those who once produced and for export are so marginalized in this society, in this country, that exactly what is happening to them is happening to them. Every fourth village, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, is in a phase of disappearance. In many villages, the entire household can be bought for two to five thousand euros. Many villages in central Banat, not only there, but also in southern and southeastern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, entire villages can be bought for 100,000 euros. Do you know about this information? Studies show that 37.8% of rural households, i.e. residents, are simply unable to afford the most normal needs of life. A particular problem in the development of the village, I would say in the development of Serbia, is in fact an imbalance in the population of Serbia. Some border regions, especially in the eastern and southeastern regions of Serbia, have relaxed. Serbia today has over 4,600 villages, and 86% of these villages record population declines. It's really a frantic piece of information. In ten years, I said, there will be seven hundred villages gone. Seven hundred two inhabited areas have under a hundred inhabitants. It's those seven hundred villages that will disappear in ten years. The forecasts are that in twenty years about 20% of the village, about a quarter of all villages, will disappear. Furthermore, from 1950 to 2000, therefore, for 50 years, there is one frantic migration of the population from the village to the cities. You should take care of that on this list. So in fifty years, eight million people went from village to city! It is said that in other countries it takes between 120 and 150 years for eight million inhabitants to move from village to town. Look what happened to us. Furthermore, in our villages, therefore in Serbia, there are over 50,000 abandoned houses, and over 150,000 houses, gentlemen of the ministry and gentlemen of the ruling majority, are temporarily uninhabited; and they will have that status soon. About 600,000 hectares remain unsowed. That'll be the information you'll see when you do the list. It has been announced that it is planned to sow corn on a million hectares this year. So almost enough could be sown in Serbia that the state kept an eye on, that it worked planfully, that it took care of its village and its agricultural producers. Furthermore, it is said that the average investment in farmers is about 25 euros per capita in Serbia. In developed countries, it is four times as much as 100 euros. Look where you brought our village and where it is now. As the government thinks about the village, how it protects the Serb village and the Serb peasants may best be seen from an eye-simple example, but to see how many countries do not really care about the Serbian peasant and Serbian village. In 2008, the U.S. The government has adopted one regulation, the name of that regulation is the Regulation on the use of funds to support non-communicative households. This Regulation entered into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 51/08 and under that regulation, it was envisaged that each rural household, each member of the rural household, should be paid 40,000 dinars as incentives for non-commercial households. So these are those households that don't produce excess values. It's those households that don't go into the market, who don't sell their goods. These are the households that with these 40,000 or 80,000, since there are usually two who pay contributions to pension and health insurance, of these money would simply survive that year. You know what happened, ladies and gentlemen MPs? Gentlemen of the government, you must know that. They were paid half, somewhere half, somewhere less. It's paid off. The damaged citizens addressed their ministry, addressed the ministry with a request to be paid off under the 2008 regulation. Do you know what the Department of Agriculture's response was? There's no money. There is no money in the budget for them because the transfers to agriculture have been reduced and because of the economic crisis. This was the answer to those who needed that 40,000 per household member to survive that year. Does the government think they survived here in 2008, 2009, 2010 and so on? Many have sued the state. I've seen a lot of these lawsuits. I can tell you they've all won disputes. Basic courts in Serbia have ruled in favour of citizens, in favour of damaged people whose state did not pay what was due. However, there is no end to their suffering. They haven't charged it yet, and still our money is still the status quo. Are the Ministry's representatives familiar with this? Do they know what's going on about this? What will happen to those who have sued and cannot charge and what will happen to those who have not sued? Will the state pay them back what was mandatory under this regulation? I ask and demand from the Ministry of Agriculture, although their representatives are not here, but I suppose this voice will reach out to them, to take in their minds, to do what is their legal obligation, to pay people what they owe them under the regulation, unless they think the villagers are second-class citizens to them, and I'd say that's exactly what they think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52882	Mrs. Verica Radeta, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52883	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52884	Four minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52885	Please, Madam President of the National Assembly, I am addressing her directly in accordance with Article 107(2). The Rules of Procedure, to try to listen to what I say, because there has been a misunderstanding twice today and what I said has not been conveyed. I'm talking about the amendment submitted by my colleague Mirko Munjic. The amendment is a logical follow-up to all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, and we have asked our amendments to delete one member of the bill at a time, which means that the whole law is deleted and that we do not need the whole law as such, because we in the SRS believe that we should have acted in accordance with the Law on whose amendments are being discussed today. For us, the unacceptable explanation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is why our amendments are not accepted. It's unacceptable that it takes you ten years to realize that this year's list of farms was to be completed. You're acting like you found out three or four days ago, so you're giving us the law on February 4th, and its application should have started in a few months. Your argument that there is no money for the application of this law, or that there is no money to carry out the census, is absolutely in conflict with the part of the reasoning of the bill. If what you are writing is true, that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, then we do not understand why you are explaining, in connection with the amendment of Milorad Buha, that the funds, or the lack of funds, are the reasons why this law is being amended. Who can trust you to provide funds for next year? Who knows where you'll spend the money you take through whatever loans you owe to Serbian citizens every day? The question is what in 2012, when it comes to a village in Serbia, will you be able to write it down in the first place. Do you know how many villages she shuts down every day? Do you know how many schools in Serbia's villages are being shut down? Do you know, I was in Zaječar County last weekend, do you know that there is no bus connection there at all between the village and the city seat, Zaječar, Književci, Sokobavanje, Bolec? Do you know such details? Do you even know what kind of country Serbia is living in, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament? Then it bothers you that we insulted Phil, so you've been electric all day, you won't let us talk all day because we defiantly showed him that we Serbian radicals would never allow any File or "file" to lead politics in Serbia. We have made clear today what we are clearly saying – Serbian radicals believe that Serbia must break all contacts with the European Union, including because of the destroyed Serbian village. What is it going to do, what did Stefan File promise for villages in Serbia? He just dictated what you should do. What did he promise to improve the status of the village? What did he promise those people out there that they could produce and sell? Did he promise maybe guarantees, since this year there will be wheat, raspberries, plums and other agricultural products? Of course not, because it's not his job. Time, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-29-0.u52886	Time. It is good for politicians to agree their position with citizens' expectations. It's not good when it's the opposite. Since we have completed our search on all amendments, I have concluded the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you, as well as Professor Dragan Vukmirović, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
