ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58870	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. To determine the number of MPs whose identification cards are in the electronic voting system, please insert them into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 90 MPs are present in the electronic system, and that a number of MPs are present in the hall, so we have the conditions for working on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Mladen Grujic and MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Notice of invitation to the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for, in addition to the representative of health minister Zoran Stankovic, the health minister, to attend the session also by Elizabeth Paunovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Dubravka Saranovic-Radic, assistant health minister and Zorica Pavlovic, assistant health minister. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Health PROTECTION LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Donka Banović, Tomislav Nikolic, Tomislav Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Filip Stojanović, Nikola Lazić, Milos Aligrudić, Milica Vojić, Simo Vuković, Petar Jojić, Zlata Djerić, Miroslav Markić, Aleksandroslav Markivić, Aleksandro Slavan Žalić, Mira Poša Poš, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić and Zajadija Radov Mir, Zajadija Radov Palić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58871	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the President-in-Office, the Honored Ministers and gentlemen of Associates, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and otherwise Article 1 refers to Article 11 of the existing law, and this Article 11 specifies which persons under equal conditions of the state provide or provide health care. We have therefore changed this point 5) in Article 1(2), and it reads: "Faces suffering from HIV infection and other infectious diseases identified by a special law governing the protection of the population of infectious diseases, malignancies, diabetes, psychosis, epilepsy, multiplesclerosis, persons in the termolus stage of chronic renal insufficiency, rheumatical fever, disease of addiction, disease, or hurt persons, in connection with the provision of emergency medical care, persons suffering from rare diseases, as well as health care related to tissue and organ administration." As we can see from this article, the 11th Amendment solution, which we consider to be celery, has been erased by the words "haemophilia, cystic fibrosis and systemic autoimmune disease", because the diseases mentioned fall within a group of rare diseases, so we avoided, on the one hand, pleonasm. According to Article 34 of the uniform methodological rule for the making of regulations, all unnecessary duplicate formulations in laws are deleted, and therefore we have wiped out these three diseases and they fall into rare diseases. What is the newspaper in this bill, within the circle of persons whose state provides health care, is also covered by persons who have suffered from rare diseases. The government has not accepted our amendment with the following explanation. I'm not going to read the whole text, I'm going to read just what I think is wrong, and this way it won't solve the problem of rare diseases. The government says: "Also, in the process of passing laws, i.e. co-operation with associations with rare diseases, the requirement that those rare diseases in Article 11(5) of the Health Protection Act should not be deleted, given that there may be any doubt in this way whether the right of those categories of persons suffering from these rare diseases is abolished or not. For this reason, an agreement has been reached that, in addition to those rare diseases, the persons suffer from rare illnesses. We don't see why there would be any doubt here, because we know that these diseases fall under a group of rare diseases and in this way you've made an inequality between those who are suffering from rare diseases. Rare diseases are diseases affecting a small number of people compared to the general population and special problems arise due to their low frequency. Up until now, six to seven thousand rare diseases have been detected, and you in the bill single out only three of the most common of these diseases, which makes others ill with rare diseases psychologically, socially, economically, culturally more vulnerable and discriminated. The proposed amendment equalises all those suffering from rare diseases, eliminates problems that arise when it comes to access to health care, comprehensive social and medical support, and increases the independence of all sufferers, and not someone's choice that someone can and cannot be treated from rare diseases, because, given the specificity of these diseases, and the fact that certain types of rare diseases must be provided with financial resources of 180,000 euros to 350 000 euros in one calendar year after one patient. That is why we believe that you should have accepted this amendment. This would improve the quality of life. I also wanted to ask the Minister of Health if this law would be applied in the AP KIM area, and in what way will you be in this crisis situation that you are now applying, if you adopt this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58872	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Before I give my word to the Minister, based on Article 90. I remind the National Assembly that representatives of parliamentary groups have been authorised, and by these two points of the agenda for individual parliamentary groups: for PUPS Nikola Krpic, for the Parliament Group Manjina Arpad Fremond, for LDP Judita Popovic, for the SPS-JS parliamentary group Zoran Bortic, for the parliamentary group DSS Nikola Lazic, for the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia Milan Knezevic, for the United Regions of Serbia, for the SRS parliamentary group Paja Momciov and for the ZES parliamentary group Dusan Milisavljevic. The word has the Minister of Health Zoran Stankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58873	Dear MPs, because of the current topic, I will only answer the first question, and as last questions in the end, I will give answers to all the questions that are being asked. It is true that this law will apply to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. What you're saying here, these diseases, I have to tell you that these diseases are being treated and the Republic Health Insurance Fund is costing to treat these diseases that you've listed, and these are some diseases that don't fall under that category, and the Republic Fund doesn't pay all the purposes, so that's why we've defined this member anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58874	It's a word from the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58875	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister and members of the Ministry. I would just like to refer to what Dr Paunovic's MP said in front of the SRS parliamentary group that I would like to invite you to Article 34. Rules of Procedure on the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 30 March 2010 brought this. The provision in this article of the first position reads: "The provision of the regulations should contain norms written in precise, clear, summarised style, without excess words and in a way that excludes any ambiguity". The answer you gave us, we're not absolutely satisfied. We've told you that the diseases that you're especially picking belong to a rare disease contigent, and it's unnecessary to single them out, especially, before there are between six and eight thousand. If it was intensities, what you explained to us on the board, that you guarantee to the sick persons that they will not be excluded now, then you should have said – and in particular, you listed these diseases and this is clearly regulated and resolved by law. I'm taking this opportunity, using the time of my authorised representative. We said in the previous session that we felt we needed to withdraw legal acts. After the debate on the board in particular, we are even more convinced that this law has no purpose to protect the interest of Serbian citizens, that it is not good and that it should be withdrawn. I'll just say briefly, remind myself of why we said it. We said that four basic elements, it's a history, a Rules of Procedure that is not respected, although I'm told that I don't understand the Rules of Procedure, I'd like someone to explain it to me and maybe interpret it, so that I understand it in a different way. There was no public debate and what was particularly evident in that debate is that this law was written under the patronage of foreigners and that they directly interfered with the adoption of these legislations, which we believe is illegal, even with the EU principle. The EU adopts directives, and never interferes with the country's concrete legislation individually, and we are not even a member of that EU to have such a commitment. So we absolutely believe that in this situation in this way, when we only got the opinion of the government this morning that we couldn't read, because it's 104 members, it's absolutely not for the hour, nor for the person who proposed it, nor for the National Assembly who would adopt it. We are faced with work in parliament on a non-stop basis, we are making other laws and we are having a debate both in principle and in particular on other legislation that also obliges MPs to be present in this room. We are witnessing dramatic events at KIM. We're citizens of this country, and we can't go over it as if we're over the Alaskan straw escape. We're further upset, SRS MPs, and you really didn't allow a minimum of conditions that we could do quality work. On the other hand, our parliament has no interest in the problem that's happening down at KiM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58876	It was used four minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58877	This applies to Article 1. The bill, where we ask that point 11, states: "a person who has no residence or residence in the Republic of Serbia because of their lifestyle, is provided health care. In your proposal, i.e. in the current law, it says that "the face of the Roma nation who, due to the traditional lifestyle, change the place of residence, provide them with health care". With this amendment, I wanted to leave out the definition of "the face of Roma nationality" and "the traditional way of life". You gave me one long explanation and said it was a huge burden on the budget and on health care. What I wanted to show you with this amendment is that this point is pointless, first of all, that you are citing the faces of Roma nationality, that it is their traditional way of life, that they are moving from place to place, and that they do not have a permanent place of residence. That's just not true. I know many faces of Roma nationality that are not traditional lifestyles, and I know other people who are not Roma nationalities, who occasionally know how to change... So it's something individual and it can't be tied to just one people without saying it's discrimination. How are you going to determine when someone comes and doesn't have a permanent place of residence and you want to give him medical care, that is, to have protection, how are you going to assess whether it's some kind of Roma nationality and that it's a constant migration of his traditional lifestyle? How are you going to determine that? Are you going to look for a copy of the polling list, that is, from a special polling list? This point is discrimination. We think it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58878	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58879	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, I have to go before I explain the amendment just to say that, as far as the SNS is concerned, we are very unhappy with this law. We think there's more cosmetic change, there's a lot of illogicality, indeterminateness, even some things that are incorrect, which we've also pointed out and discussed on the Health Committee. Of course, however, none of this is appreciated. We also felt that the law should be withdrawn, since it goes into emergency procedures, even though some of the specifics will not be applied for a year. But, of course, we haven't come across that, and the law is still in the process. As far as our amendment is concerned, our amendment and explanation is very similar to that presented by Mrs Banovic earlier, which is that we are asking this amendment to change Article 1(3) of point 11 and that persons who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Serbia because of their traditional lifestyle. We believe that it should be changed absolutely and added this part, because it will primarily result in discrimination of Roma nationality, which also comes across the Law on Discrimination, because they do not, after all, only Roma traditional, mean such a way of life, the nomadic way of life, there are certain parts and other peoples who also often change their residences and therefore make it impossible for them to have health care that is wrong and that this needs to be regulated more precisely by the law, because ultimately, all Serbian citizens should, not based on nationality, but on another basis, which we will talk about later, need to have health care. We think that this should be changed because in this case these groups of people are, after all, the Roma, the most, because they are placed in a subordinate position, which is in direct conflict with the Discrimination Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58880	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58881	Honorable Members of the People, Honored Ministers, on the basis of Article 161. I tabled the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on behalf of the SRS amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Article 2 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: Article 18 paragraph 1(7) is amended and reads as follows: emergency medical assistance to all persons in Serbia's territory, the proposed position 2, 3 and 4 is deleted. A simpler and more precise normation is proposed in accordance with Article 34 of the uniform methodological rule for the making of rules. Further centralised of supply and equipment and materials is not allowed, and these powers should in no way be given to the Ministry of Health but to health institutions. The 19th point already covers the obligations of the Republic towards the Labour Medical Institute, as its founder is the Republic of Serbia. Emergency medical care must be available to all persons in Serbia's territory without discrimination. It usually means fighting for someone's life, and the right to life and health care is guaranteed by the highest international and national acts. Emergency medical attention must not be conditioned and it must not be denied to anyone. Something like that would be an anti-civilization act. For these reasons, this formulation that I am proposing today is much clearer and more precise than the one offered by the promoters. That's why I think you should accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58882	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58883	I'm using the MP's time group. You see how the legislator predicted, he says: "Emergency medical assistance to persons unknown, as well as to other persons who do not have the right to emergency medical assistance otherwise in accordance with the law," and we said more simply: "Emergency medical assistance to all rooms located in Serbia's territory". I guess that's clear. We are proposing something that is more general, more comprehensive, which includes foreign citizens, so you are calling in response to the fact that in another member, doctors are obliged to provide that assistance to foreigners, and we simply tell you here that, in the end, if you are going to respect the EU directives, you will also have to write it, not to specify this group to someone who has no residence, and then to someone else who is not intended for others, which is still unclear and you do not accept this either. Therefore, there is no good will in you when we want to comply with the legislation to pass the laws, where it is said that norms must be clear, precise, and that they do not bring into doubt someone when you here divide this group needlessly into two and then we can think about who they belong to and it is unnecessary. What is also said is the task of the Republic in this article also to provide funds, not to list them all, but it should not be the task of the Republic to be the trader, who will deal with the purchase of equipment and funds. If we are talking about decentralisation, it should be left to health institutions, and mechanisms to do so legally and socially justified way, exist in the law. Therefore, this is absolutely unnecessary to introduce another jurisdiction to the Ministry of Health which it should not have. Of course, the third thing Mr. Filip Stojanovic said in front of the SRS, you suddenly call in a member, say, the 5th to something that's all the way back there. I guess we should follow this legal norm and solutions and some chronology and logic. What Col. Stojanovic said, it is essential, it is all already foreseen since the Republic is now listed as the Republic should provide funds, as in the first position of the member talking about the Department of Medicine of Labour is clearly said to be the founder of the Republic, so when the founder of the Republic, he must then bear the material costs for the work of this institution, like all other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58884	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nikola Lazic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment with the correction. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, but did not declare the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment in the basic text is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, but has not spoken of the correction, so that this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58885	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We have submitted the amendment because we really wanted to point out something that is very strange when it's written in documents that MPs get to know and work on. Every law that comes to us with amendments and additions we also have another supplement that refers to the review of the provisions that change and supplement. In that part, Article 18(1) of point 22 literally states: "Providing the means to carry out the operations referred to in Article 124(1) to (7) of this Act, as well as the procedure for determining the level of ionising and non-ionising radiation in the field of health care by the Office for Labour Medicine established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia". On the basis of this, I simply have to ask you – do you in the Government discuss such things as laws to be passed and laws to be taken? Because this same government passed two years ago. The resolution ministry was the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the Law on protection against ionic radiation and the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation. After that, I see that here in the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Health Protection Act you adopted it to write – the level of ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, so that's fine, as far as we're concerned, not only about us, but also about sound logic, because these two laws have been passed here. But I'm simply asking you next time for what you're delivering to us as a review of the things you're changing in laws, you're really consulting these laws that have already been passed. I am truly in a dilemma, as are most of the people's messengers. Is it ionizing or ionizing radiation? I'd like you to answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58886	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58887	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. In relation to this article, we have suggested that in the first sentence, "if he did not explicitly object" be deleted and that the proposed position 1 should become heading 2. In our opinion, any kind of opposition, and not only explicitly, must be respected if the person is primarily critical and legally capable. The objective of this amendment is to improve the text of the proposed law. Namely, Article 32 in the position of the 1st law of the norm – the patient may grant consent to the proposed medical measure explicitly or in writing or in writing, or tacitly, if he has not explicitly objected. We believe that this norm where it is said, "if it was not explicitly opposed" is really unnecessary and it should have been eliminated and deleted from this law. Secondly, Mr Minister, as regards the declaration of compliance with EU rules, on page 69 below 4. - compliance with EU rules. Five, there are no relevant EU rules to ensure harmonisation in the area governed by the Amendments and Supplements Act. Please note, you say that the area of health care is regulated by the national rules of the EU Member States. Six, are the above-mentioned norms and sources of EU law translated into Serbian? No, they're not. We do not know what it says, and we should know, as MPs, we should know, especially if it is seeking to comply with EU regulations, although it is absolutely not binding on us, because we are not yet a member of the EU. Is the draft rules translated into some official EU language? That's where it's said it's not. We believe that this too should have been done, if it is to strive and wants to comply with this regulation with EU rules. Furthermore, under eight, the involvement of consultants in the making of regulations and their opinion on compliance, you say that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act are not consulted consultants, so the question arises – who then proposed this, these amendments, and why are consultants not used in particular? Mr. Minister, let me ask you and ask you a question to check the APV has set up 50 million dinars for the Internal Department at Panchev General Hospital. Those 50 million, given by the government of Vojvodina, are not known where they were spent. So please find time to come to Pancheva to carry out or send an inspection, you'll see. I don't want to convince you too much, because you may not believe me, but if anyone comes to the scene, especially if your inspection comes, you will determine chaos and a very bad condition there. If the province gave 50 million, where did that money go in Panchev? Please run a check. I would suggest, Mr. Minister, that you make sure that we get free healthcare at this time, as it used to be, where we were all being treated and educated for free. Try to give the initiative to introduce free health care in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58888	Two minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a health minister, Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58889	Mr. Jojic, I said I'd answer later, but what you're asking me now is I have to answer for my mother. She called me yesterday and criticized why I didn't answer your question, since you asked that question twice yesterday. If you remember, after that first session, we were saying that you and Dr. Momchilov and I went to Pancheva and we looked at all the problems that we talked about and that you said. Therefore, I remain in that position. I'm sorry I had to use my mother for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58890	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58891	I'm using the MP's time group. You see, Mr. Jojic made it clear that there can be no smaller and greater opposition, there can be no explicit opposition, medium and small. A team before, if you look at the first attitude, it is said like this – the patient can agree to the proposed medical measure explicitly. How then do you enter into the same sentence of the salt of death and say, "If he has not opposed it explicitly?" Well, if he has to agree explicitly, then he cannot stand in the same sentence. What does that mean silently? It means he didn't use speech to express his attitude. Is it possible that you don't know the situation in real life from everyday practice that someone breaks down with pain, breaks down with depression, not in terms of multipolar psychosis, won't be willing to talk, won't be talking to him often, will settle down with your head, will tell you no, and someone will interpret that he explicitly pleaded. That's not allowed. Anything that's ambiguous, which isn't clear and precise can't. That's what we ordered. In your response, you've given us a call to a series of conventions. I keep everything in front of me. In each of these conventions that you've taken and referred to? Please give me the exact answer. I keep all the conventions in front of me. Please answer - on the basis of which members in these conventions do you give us this answer and reject this well-intentioned amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58892	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4, where we have asked for an amendment to be deleted after the words "which refer to his health status" and the words "as well as the legal confidentiality of the data contained in medical records". So, to be clear, it's about documentation that applies to people who turn 15 years old, meaning underage faces. Our argument is this – we believe that from the aspect of improving the rights of the child enough to give the child 15 years of age the right to self-inspect his own medical records. However, it does not make sense that this same child has the right to deny parents information about its health status and, therefore, we propose such a solution by this amendment, especially in the light of the provision of Article 36(2). In fact, by supporting everything that applies to children's rights, and always as someone who is involved in raising and educating children, I believe that all rights stem from obligations. The health condition that is particularly important in family life, and given that as a nation we are still prone to a number of prejudices, reasonable and without reasonable concerns, I think that 15-year-olds, having in mind today's baggy lifestyles, especially urban environments, can bring themselves into serious health conditions, let's say some infections that we know are spreading like monsters, and that very often they are hampered by parents and fear of reactions in the family, and they are very often inclined to keep such information about your health where you will find the first support and first care and first aid when it comes to solving such a problem. For this reason, we felt that children should really be given the right to have insight into their medical records, but they should not be given the legal right, that they should have the right to deny the nearest, or parents and guardians, the right to have that kind of information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58894	Anyone else want a word? National MP Predrag Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58895	I'd like to thank you for this amendment, Mrs. Djeric. First of all, I'd like the minister to expand the auditorium later on says, he's somewhat on the subject and explained it to us. So I'm using the MP's time. Why is the border down to 15 years? They were formerly minors, and now we've given a child 15 years of age, especially since in this law we mix a minor and a child, later he'll be a child up to the age of 18, and now he's a minor. So that's where we stayed undefined in law. He is allowed the right to decide for himself, or to make a decision if a professional person is to agree with it, means that his mental state is mature and that he can make decisions. First, as this will be determined, whether a child will be sent to a psychiatrist or a psychologist who should be able to make that decision. Especially since we're about to fall into a trap, since we have a large number of kids who use, unfortunately, intoxicated drugs from primary school. Otherwise, at the age of 15, we will prevent parents from getting information about his condition, whether the child is infected with an infectious disease due to drug use or unfortunately, perhaps even AIDS, just because the law allows him to. So, just bringing down the border, you're talking about extended child rights and so forth, one charter is another convention. The convention is binding, and the charter is not binding, and you are referring to the Charter of the Rights of the Child. So, we don't see, I don't see any reason why this line is down to 15 years, and why, if it's even a dictatorship of Europe, it would be completely pointless to do that, because we're going to get into a situation where we have a larger number of children, and the parents or guardians have no insight into their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58896	Two minutes used by the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58897	I'm talking about the amendment very briefly. So, controversy works and for argument's sake, of course I respect all the amendments that have been submitted, but here I have to say a few facts that I am deeply convinced of. Children at 15 in many countries, including ours, have the right to work, to practice. Children at 15 are certainly far away in a stage where they can decide who they're going to be in if their parents divorce. They have the right to decide in the good part of their destiny. What I'm saying is in line with the relevant international conventions that our country has accepted, and when we look at the views of the Council of Europe in this respect, they do not differ significantly. Even in the Council of Europe and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is a step further, and something that is envisaged in a constitutional sense in the Member States of the Council of Europe is still not possible, nor will it be for a long time, but it is expressed as a political stance, which is that it may be a good idea for individuals who are even younger than 18, in certain cases, to have the right to vote. So the engagement in this way of youth in the social system should not be undermined, and this area, when it comes to, first of all, to that category of persons who will be treated practically as patients here, as people who have been sick. In that sense, they don't need the right to decide their fate that way. So, with all due respect to the amendments, of course, especially since I'm from the opposition party and there's no reason for me to stand up to people, I just had to express this attitude that's a little bit, a little bit different than the attitude our distinguished colleague put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58898	Anyone else want a word? Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic - Markovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Nikola Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58899	I wanted to point out very briefly, what is essential, actually an amendment that has been accepted. This amendment of the DSS parliamentary group provided that, therefore, the right of the patient to have access to medical records must be granted within a period of not more than 15 days. The right to see medical records is one of the fundamental rights and it must indeed respect. This insight must be made possible in a mild manner in order to reduce space for possible manipulations and abuses. Therefore, the right to review medical documentation must certainly include what is recorded, so also a history and diagnosis and therapy as well as the medical measures taken as well as the advice given to the patient. So, as I said, we predicted that the longest deadline in which it is necessary to enable the patient to see medical records would be 15 days. There's really a number of reasons why it's like that. One more thing we wanted to do this opportunity to propose to the ministry, which is that as soon as possible, one kind of pattern is standardised that the patient would have the opportunity to submit a request for insight into medical documentation, simply so that it would be formally formed. Of course, this amendment is important in the context of respect and the rights and time of the patient. When it comes to the rights of the patient, we also said during the principle debate, and we will now repeat, that we feel it is necessary to pass a new comprehensive law on the rights of the patient. Simply, when it comes to the right of patients, we have also pointed out that only a solution to the protector of the rights of patients who now exist in health institutions is not well resolved, because this health care institution is the employer of this patient's rights protector, and patients should now complain about irregularities in the work in that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58900	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58901	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 5 is an old member of the 37th in this law, in the position of Article 4, you wrote: "The duty to store classified data by competent healthcare professionals and health associates, as well as other persons employed by employers in the position of the 2nd member, can only be released on the basis of a written or other clear and unequivocal consent of the patient or on the basis of a decision of the court". Let's not comment, because with all the law that appears here, we have a dilemma whether, in fact, we don't have a dilemma, but the promoter has a dilemma, whether something is written as a document or written as a document, and here it should say, "written consent". So we thought we should leave this out: "an unambiguous consent of the patient". What does "an unambiguous consent" mean? We have written consent on one side, and what is this other - unequivocally stated consent? It's gesture language. We don't all understand gesture language the same way. We were really trying to keep the patient's right to be very, very protected. The problem with all our laws that come into the congregation is that we really mean everything in these laws. We have to say that the patient is entitled only to written consent. You make an adequate form, let him have the content that suits you, but only with the consent written can he free healthcare professionals, health associates and other persons employed by the employer in item 2. Of course, we mean to remain this court's decision. So, the patient's written document or it could happen based on the court. Otherwise, the unambiguous consent of the patient to us is something we do not fully understand what it means. Of course, we can say that the nod will mean yes to us, but that in Bulgaria it will mean no. Or vice versa. It's just, let's not mean things. I beg you, this is a very serious part of this law. He is in line with international conventions and rules, but I'm asking you to release him from the traditional to imply himself. You don't mean anything. Please keep it "written" or "based on the court's decision". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58902	Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58903	In the time of my parliamentary group, I will try to explain my colleague Markicevic's amendment. Therefore, Article 5(6) is amended and reads as follows: "Extremely from the position of the 5th of this member, the competent healthcare professional may publish data on the patient’s health condition and in the event that the patient has not given consent to the release of information on his health status, provided that the assessment that the disclosure of such data is in the interest of maintaining the health of the wider population that has priority over the obligation to keep classified information." This amendment gives the competent healthcare professional the right to, on the basis of his professional experience and medical ethics, take into account all circumstances of a specific case, assess the need to communicate patient health data, if such a statement is in the interest of the wider social community. For example, preventing the spread of infectious diseases and so on. So we felt that it should be based not only on a member of a family that can be exposed to something, but, believing absolutely in the professional ethics of a health care worker, that when a case occurs that recognizes, it diagnoses as a possible spread of the infection, that it should react and be free from the obligation to keep the confidentiality of data. Just remember the cases of a variety of faith, in your own time, in ours now long ago history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58904	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58905	I have an obligation to explain my amendment as well. In Article 5, paragraph 8, after saying "which refers to its health status", the words "as well as the right to the confidentiality of the data contained in medical documentation" are deleted. So that's what we've already said in the previous amendment. We believe that from the point of view of improving the rights of the child, it is enough to give the child at the age of 15 the right to self-inspect his own medical records. We really believe, once again, by respecting everything that has been said in the defense of this attitude and by fellow Aligrudić, we believe that the child of 15 years does not have the right to deny the nearest kind of information, i.e. that it is necessary, taking into account our historical, cultural and national and metalletic heritage, that the family, the nearest, guardians or parents, should be in the case of some possible diseases that may be difficult to overcome, even sometimes not prevailing at all, to share that information with parents, or not to deny them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58906	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58907	This amendment concerns Article 5, respectively, paragraph 9, which is to be deleted. We explained that if parents have custody obligations, it is important to have a lot of information about their children’s health. In this article, it is not clear which degree of secrecy is the data that is concerned, whether it is internal, confidential, top secret, state secret and under what law. Is it under the 2009 Privacy Act? Otherwise, Article 5 refers to Article 37 of the still applicable Law, which refers to the rights of patients who are subject to confidentiality. You normally did not accept this amendment either, as no amendments to the SRS. In your explanation, among other things, you stated that the proposed solution, which you proposed, was fully harmonised with the provisions of the Roman Charter of Patients' Rights, with the Universal Declaration of Bioethics and Human Rights. Now I ask you once again, as asked by you and distinguished colleague Paja Momchilov, who are these members of the Charter or the Convention, who speak of parents not having the right to know the health information of their child. I have here in front of me the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and on the basis of this Convention, we believe that the amendment is fine and that you should have accepted this amendment, because several members of this Convention on the Rights of the Child say that parents have an obligation to know the health status of their children. I'm going to name you, for example, a member of the 5th parenting of the child's developmental capabilities. Member of the 18th Responsibilities of parents and so on. On the other hand, we're all mostly parents here, so I'd like to ask you one more question. You speak here, I say in your proposal, that only in the event of serious hazards to the life and health of the child, despite the requirement that information on the health situation not be told to the parents, has an obligation to report the results to the parents. However, the situation in everyday life is not so drastic, but it can end drastically. I'll give you an example of anorexia, nervousness. You know that the child gradually loses weight, body weight, and parents watch it every day, sees that the child is veined, and simply does not have the opportunity to help him by getting insight into medical records. There are thousands of examples I could give you this time, but I'm also going to give you a banana example of anemia. Today's children and at all Serbian citizens do not have that medical culture to go to the exams, that they want to be treated. On the one hand, they also have fear of white coats, fear of finding out which diseases they are suffering from, and when the doctor tells the child of 15 years of age, who doesn't even have medical education about what it means to him, he can fall into some form of mental disorder, not to say the form of anxiety, panic, depression and normal that then some rationalization mechanism avoids talking about it at all, and normally he doesn't want to tell his parents that they wouldn't take any of the measures needed to cure the child. That's why we think you need to reconsider this proposal for our amendment and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58908	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58909	Thank you. I'd like to add one more thing within this article, so I'm going to move on to the amendment. I'm going to use the MP's time again. I was offered by Mr. Aligrudić with what he said. I kind of agree, however, there is one other thing. We don't allow a 15-year-old kid to drive a car, even though it might be capable of judgment and decision-making. It's hypocritical. Look, we don't give it to him because we're afraid of him on the road, we're not sure it's capable, but it's hypocritical because it's not because we don't care if that kid has some serious disease that he's supposed to share with his parents, but we're giving him the right to either tell or not. Anorexia and anxiety, mentioned by a colleague, leads to death, you know that. If a parent has no right to force a child, that a child is capable of self-judgment and says I want to starve to death, to enter that anorexia, we need to watch him die because he is able to judge on his own. I mean, it's really hypocritical, letting a 15-year-old kid decide about himself, and we're afraid of him on the road. Then give him the right to drive a car, and meet him on the road. That's why I think it's wrong and that we need to reconsider that decision, regardless of the charter, the convention and the like. After all, we live in a different climate, we do not have to apply everything that Europe requires of us. As far as our amendment is concerned, we asked for the 10th Amendment to be deleted. What does Section 10 say? I have to read it to you, he says – data from medical records, i.e. derived from these data, and copies of medical records can be provided, carefully, to the custody authority, to the organisation of compulsory health insurance and legal persons who carry out the work of voluntary health insurance to carry out the tasks laid down by law, as well as other legal persons, if prescribed by law. Don't you think, Mr. Minister, that this is an extremely wide range of opportunities for someone to find out and know who is sick, what kind of treatments have been treated for and what is being treated for? We had earlier that only the judicial authority could receive information by official request of the patient's medical condition. We now allow voluntary health insurance. Why does voluntary health insurance need to know that I'm sick of this or that, did I have this or that disease? After all, he can ask me if I am, and I'm going to say, "Yes or no", so if something is determined, I can be punished, but not that he knows in advance what I'm sick of. So it's exclusive, except for the exclusive right of every man to share his health with a professional, i.e. with the one who takes care of his health, in this case with the doctor, and the point. Eventually, he can share it with the priest, his right to do so, but the priest is obliged to remain silent, not to present, as well as the doctor, what we have introduced into the law, the doctor is obliged to keep a professional secret. How are we going to get these people, the guardians, the insurance companies, and I don't know about anyone, to keep a secret about whether you have tuberculosis or not, do you have any other disease or not? Why did you need such a wide range of people or organizations that could learn your health? That's why we asked for this attitude to be erased and normally only to remain that the judicial authorities have the right to obtain data and documentation on the patient's health condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58910	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58911	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and I will read it for the public. There is again a discussion about those years of child restraint, those 15 years. We have proposed an amendment where Article 6. we have a position 2 which reads – an exceptional medical examination can also be taken on minors, but only for his direct benefit and with the written consent of his legal representative, who is previously informed in terms of the position of the 2nd member. Our amendment refers to adding, at the end of this attitude, the extension that is read – in terms of the position of the 2nd member, as well as the minor who turned 15 years of life and who is capable of judgment, i.e. for independent decision-making. So we're adding again the attitude in this position of a sentence that actually adds to this position, because in other places, so far, it's been discussed, you've offered solutions both in Article 4 and in Article 5, where you're entitled, my fellow MPs have previously discussed, that a child can get insight into medical records after 15 years if he's capable of judgment. We also felt here that in the spirit of the solutions offered by you in this law and here there was this supplement. However, of course, this amendment has been rejected. The amendment was rejected with an explanation of where you are calling, not only for the rejection of this amendment, but for the rejection of previous amendments, to the Roman Charter of Patients' Rights, then to the Universal Declaration of Biotics and Human Rights, to the same international declarations of refusal. This is really contradictory, put in here the views of these members that children of the minors, who turned 15, can get the introduction into documentation, not repeat what their colleagues said before, and now in this attitude you say – is rejected because they are not in agreement. What's significant is we've heard an explanation about that 15-year-old limit. Surely, counterpart Aligrudic said, that in some European countries they even have the right to work. Well, they do, too, but they had that right 100 years ago, to work 12 years, 13 years old, 14 years old, and not to go into any history. It's been resolved and I respect all of it, but the point is if we introduce it like this and we give the possibility that at the age of 15, how can it be regulated legally? They probably exist in government and other law enforcement institutions, and they need to be properly talked to by a psychologist, a psychiatrist, which is the goal, which team of people? It is a matter that is not a matter of decision where a child will say – I am capable of reasoning. However, although we live in a modern world, even though these children grow up with computers, television and mature safely in some segments because of a large number of information, we still need systemically in the state, I don't know what it's like in Western countries, to sort this out, and not like this, just to find that the child is capable of judgment after 15 years. However, it is necessary in an appropriate legal way, and according to all these, natural and other laws that monitor the growth and maturation of children, to arrange who is who decides that one child in the 16th year is capable of judgment without the other being. It's not just the level of intelligence, the coefficient of intelligence, etc., if we shut down those medical parameters. The fact is that someone is more mature, someone is not, so I've just gotten attached to some discussions of previous colleagues, that it should still be legally resolved and that in this way these findings, which you've introduced into this law, get some legal power. I repeat, it is contradictory that you are now refusing the amendment, and in previous members you have concluded that a underage child capable of being able to gain insight into documentation and some other parts. Now just one technical remark, Mr. Minister. You have the same attitude in Articles 4 and 6. Is that necessary? "A child who has completed 15 years of life and who is capable of reasoning, i.e. for independent decision-making, has the right to consult medical records relating to his medical condition, as well as the right to the confidentiality of data contained in medical records." I'm reading this for the public. In Article 6, it's the exact same attitude, with a dot and a dot. Is that Article 4 refers to medical documentation, and the next article refers to the confidentiality of information or earlier official secrecy. Personally, I find it absolutely unnecessary in two members to repeat the same article from word to word, that it is excessive and unnecessary, it is probably a failure, so let it be either in Article 4 or Article 6 but why repeat an identical member in both members.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58912	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58913	Article 6 is amended as follows: "Article 6(4) is deleted". Reason: It is unethical to look at minors, and most often and perhaps the only direct benefit of that is research by certain persons, as well as some times by pharmaceuticals. That is why we have proposed this amendment to help children, to prevent child abuse for these purposes, and to improve children's rights and the quality of their lives. You have also rejected this amendment with explanations as well as for the preceding Article 5, that the proposed solution is in accordance with the Roman Charter and with other charters, but we believe that you are wrong and that these arguments are not the most accurate and that you should answer this question, which Dr. Paja Momchilov and I have asked. What are the members of these mentioned charters you are referring to? I'm going to tell you again about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where no medical examination is mentioned. So the Convention on the Rights of the Child in no member mentions a medical examination that can be carried out over a minor child. Also, Article 3 of this Convention says that we should work hard and work for the best interests of the child. In this article, you noted that an exceptional medical examination can also be taken over a minor, but only for his direct benefit and with the written consent of his legal representative who has previously been notified in the sense of Article 2. In view of Article 38, you pointed out that medical examinations can only be taken on full-time business qualified patients and only with its consent. This is where you said it could be done over underage children if it was a direct benefit, and I told you last time it was a principle debate and now I'm asking. What are the direct benefits for children when medical examination is carried out? Who determines what is the immediate benefit? A person who determines whether this benefit can be greater than the damage or that the damage is greater than the benefit. These are all ethical issues that are very important. That is why we believe that this proposal by a member of the law is not human and is not in the best interest of the child, that you should have accepted our amendment, so in some way this proposed legislative solution would have been better defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58914	Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58915	I'm using the MP's time group. You see, we are now having a debate, which can really be called an absurd debate, as we have seen in the previous case. When you rule out your parents' right, you make it an obligation to care for children to know something about their health, which doesn't have to be critical of their lives, then you make it impossible for them to complete their parental duties. Here's an example of a banana. The girl has anemia, the parent doesn't know, she won't say, so she goes to the doctor. How's he gonna feed her? What kind of hygienic diet regime will allow adequate to make her feel good. It's pointless, really. Why stick to it, when it's not in these documents that you're referring to. And I keep calling you. Here I go again. Go ahead. In this convention or charter, by making sure that the charter is not binding, the convention should be binding, and we have a bunch of laws that, thank God, are not respected at all. If you wanted to arrange what Mrs. Paunovic told you, you would then go from the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings to applying biology to medicine. So the Convention on Human Rights in Biomedicine. Then if you would carefully read it you would absolutely see it, here I invite you to read a few of those members. Article 6. Protection of persons who are unable to give consent, and then says like this, if you read the same thing, I would ask you not to read it now, Article 16 of the protection of persons on whom research is being carried out. So it has to be a whole series of preconditions, not only when it's a minor but every other person. Here I am reading to you from article 16. – there is no alternative, meaning comparable efficiency of human research. You had to write that down. There's nothing like it. The risks to which this person is exposed are disproportionate to the potential of research. The research project was approved by the competent authority after an independent examination of its scientific value. Independent interrogation. Where's that in our law? You're calling the conventions, please. See further what it says - including the importance of the research goal and the multidisciplinary of its ethical acceptability. Multidisciplinary acceptability of ethics. Doctors aren't ethically just in charge of judging. There are representatives of religion, there are lawyers, there are sociologists, there are culturalists. But that's not with us. It's conventions and you're telling us now that you stick to conventions. If you go only to Article 17 of the same Convention, which is binding on us, which we have ratified, it is said this way – research on persons who do not have the ability to give consent, as provided for in Article 5, can only be taken under the conditions to meet all the following conditions, then collects all the previous ones that I have, and I have not counted them all. So it's a minimum. Then he says – the results of the research have the ability to produce real and direct benefits for his health. Not supposed. If you have a tour, then you can't guarantee the outcome. That's quite clear. If you're referring to all this and you're not answering us, I don't know what. We ask you to tell us exactly, to disperse all our delusions and misunderstandings, and we are reading to you exactly, let's say, a convention that clearly defines this problem, and you haven't even tried legal solutions to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58916	The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58917	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. This amendment applies to the title above the existing member of the 40th so-called law, where the proposing, or ministry, suggests that the title above it is "right to respect for the patient's time". With our amendment, we suggest that this title sounds different, i.e. the right to respect the patient's time. In an explanation, Minister, I don't know who wrote this explanation to you, but here's the explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it does not repair the essential character of the proposed title." The title is very difficult to fix essentially, but it is so that when MPs read your bill very carefully, then you can notice that some expression is more used, that something different is said, that it is common, and that something is less common, so that this intervention is, yes, it is not a fundamental character or title you can essentially change, you can only propose a member. We think it's better to say "respecting the patient's time" than "patient's time". The person who wrote these arguments felt that this amendment was thus rejected. But what we resent is that you haven't essentially changed that member from the current law. This change where you add practically two new positions to an existing member, these attitudes don't change anything essential when it comes to respecting the patient's time. Because of the citizens, I'm going to read what you're actually introducing as a newspaper and it's not a fundamental change or it's going to help solve the problem of disrespecting the patient's time. You say, therefore, this is the new view: "the patient has the right to schedule examinations, diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures to preserve and improve health conditions carried out in a medical institution, i.e. private practice, i.e. another legal person performing health care in accordance with the law in order to achieve health care". What did you do here? You're only here to tell patients that they have the right to schedule an appointment. As far as I know, they've known this right so far, but it's a much bigger problem than how their time is respected. Unlike this amendment, which you say is superficial, which is superficial, because it speaks only of the title, we have submitted another amendment that essentially changes this proposal of yours, which is that we believe that the minister through sublaws, regulations, etc. should also set deadlines. When he sets those deadlines, he'll really respect the patient's time. Now, this is a cosmetic shift just to say that you're suddenly worried about respecting the patient's rights. This member or your member's proposal opens up a whole other problem, and that's the problem with the absence of a law on the protection of patients' rights. I heard from my colleagues who were on the Health Committee that the representative of the Ministry who attended the committee, I don't think it was Mr. Minister, that the Ministry's representative said that the law was absolutely unnecessary and that all the rights of our patients in Serbia were regulated through some other legal solutions. I don't argue that's true. However, for every patient and citizen of Serbia, it would be very good to have all his rights in one place. If you think that's unusual, I'll remind you and all my colleagues that a few months ago we just passed a Consumer Protection Act. Likewise, the people of the Ministry of Trade could say – why should we, by some special law, protect the rights of consumers when it is regulated through a whole series of other laws and regulations? We think we really need to pass a real, one law that would talk about protecting patients' rights. That's one thing. Secondly, you will now probably remind me that most of our health care facilities have people who are employed in these health institutions, so it's an institution for the protection of patients' rights. Most medical institutions have these people employed. What's unfortunate about that, I'll call it an experiment, an experiment is an accident that these people are completely addicted, or they're not independent. Why? Because they get paid in that institution and they're absolutely in conflict of interest. Do you think any institution in which he receives his salary will seriously accuse him of violating patients' rights? This, in practice, proved to be an absolutely unsuccessful experiment. Yesterday, he was in the paper, and it goes as good news from Serbia, a journalist wrote that in Valjevo, City Administration, he started working as a patient rights adviser. The City Administration of Valjevo boasts that they now have a person called the Patient Rights Advisor. So, little is that we have people in health care institutions who are paid for it, but now local self-government will pay for people called counselors. They also inform the citizens of Valjev that these people work three times a week, that they are available to them and that is for those who do not know how to exercise individual rights or think they are denied. Please, this is really a waste when we're talking about some kind of savings. You, in addition to all these protectors at Valjevo health institutions, introduce a person who will now be a patient advisor to the City Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58918	The word is Mr. Paja Momchilov, so Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, whom I welcome this occasion. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58919	I fully support my colleagues and their amendment, and I'm really surprised by the government's response that it's a superficial amendment. As you gave a member and suggested, that's how you got the amendment. Your proposal for this member is superficial. You say the right to respect the patient's time and only talk about an appointment. As you accumulate unnecessary words, you say – the patient has the right to schedule, review diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures to maintain and improve health conditions. I guess that's what that means. Why are you writing this? You're referring to the charter. Here's what the Roman Charter says - the right to respect the patient's time. Each individual has the right to receive the necessary treatment of fast and planned time. This right applies to every stage of work, not to an appointment. You wrote something, which absolutely cannot correspond with the fact that someone will be respected time in the way that they need it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58920	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58921	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a man must be surprised by the reasons for not accepting this amendment, especially knowing the condition in the area of patient rights in the Republic of Serbia. I will support this with the evidence of the World Bank of June 2007. The Republic of Serbia is ranked in a very high fourth place ranked after healthcare corruption. Above Serbia are Tajikistan, Moldova and Morocco, without reading what is beneath that fourth, very high place. So the rights of patients in Serbia are one illusion. The illusion because this institute really exists, and this institute is, it is seen, what is the Protector of the right of a patient person who is employed in that health institution and the simple question that is being imposed – whose right to protect this patient's rights? They will protect the right of him from whom He receives the wages. It's basic logic, and the patient's rights won't protect him. Why for years in Serbia since 2000, talk about the necessity of passing a law on the protection of the rights of the patient and that is not the case. It's not exactly because these indicators show a degree of health corruption, that it's not an interest to bring patients' rights. On the other hand, changes and additions these two laws are very serious in some segments. This certainly required a serious public debate. It is unacceptable for these two laws, which fall within the most significant health laws, to arrive on Friday, on weekend days, without knowing about the public debate, and what is a burning problem in Serbian health, to have what is buzzing as the domestic and world public turns into other tracks. So, I'm speaking to Mr. Minister about Article 199. The Health Protection Act, I'm talking about supplemental work, I'm talking about a corrupt law, that it's possible for someone with a state resource, in which it's been invested for decades, to use someone to gain additional income. Mr. Minister, does this mean that when the JAT pilot finishes working time, he can get on a plane and say, "This is what I'm doing as an extra piece of work now?" Does this mean that when the judge finishes his hours he says – now I'm working as an extra action? Does this mean that the driver of a city bus or tram after work hours says – now I'm driving a bus as an additional activity because it's crowded? The basic question that has been raised here and the former minister is whether the system is capable of responding to the demands of the population. If he is capable, what are the waiting lists and the waiting lists within those waiting lists of skipping and corrupting? That was the case at Sremska Kamenica, Institute of Oncology. Who is it that can decide the length of his life and put him on the waiting list? What does the Health Insurance Act say? That it's a mandatory kind of health insurance. How can there be a waiting list? How is it possible there's a criminal responsibility? In the amendments and additions to the Law, you provide for the establishment of an institution of cancellation to the one who collects basic health insurance services. Is that punishment for anyone who deals with it? What about criminal responsibility? It doesn't exist? Well, it doesn't exist because it hasn't changed the Health Protection Act, because it's a corrupt member, because it's legalized corruption. That was supposed to be the basic objective of changing the law. Without these changes, you can't speak up front. There are still some things, Mr. Minister, but we'll talk about these things when certain members of the law come in line, but this does not fall under serious change of both system laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58922	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58923	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the title above article 40a reads: "Right to respect the patient's time". Once again we enter that domain whether the patient’s time or patient’s time is said, or if this is just a translation from another language that would suit the patient’s time. What's the point? You have inserted a new member, and this article reads: "The patient has the right to schedule examinations, diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures for the preservation and improvement of health conditions carried out in a medical institution, i.e. in private practice, i.e. another legal person who performs health care in accordance with the law in order to achieve health care. It's okay, the patient's entitled to all these appointments, but what's he gonna do with that right? I've read a lot of your interviews after the Minister's post, and you're aware of what his right looks like. Its right consists of waiting lists, everything his life depends on. This famous knee brace should wait until 2024 if it wants to operate in Kragujevac. You know, he's got a right to do that, but he just needs to wait a little, like, 12 or 13 years, and then everything's gonna be okay and he's gonna live through it. I would not like to talk about these waiting lists for oncology checks, oncology operations, etc., mentioned by fellow Dimitrijevic, which is actually skipping certain waiting lists as an introduction to corruption and everything else. Not only the introduction, but much more than the introduction to corruption. We understand that you really have an idea and that you really want to change this law and that is why we helped you by bringing a new position in article 40 that says – deadlines for the appointment of the review, diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures to preserve and improve the patient's health status are prescribed by the Minister by means of a sublaw. What were we trying to accomplish? We wanted to achieve that by some act that the patient should wait on, whether these deadlines are 12 years, six months or a month. Mr. Minister, you must know that for a simple check-up in Serbia today, it is three to six months. Now, if you call on the phone, it's the right patients, they tell you -- you know, we haven't opened the list yet, so when you call in two days, they say -- we just closed the list now, so call next month and we'll wait again to open the list and close the list. I'd like you to listen because I think this is a fundamental amendment. The answer I received was humiliating for someone who wanted to change something in this system, and the answer is this: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed Article 40a of the bill fully complies with the Roman Charter of Patients' Rights." Is the Roman Charter in other countries also waiting 12 years and 13 years for a simple operation? In addition, the manner and procedure of the exercise of the right or time limits of the appointment of the review, diagnostic procedures and others shall be brought closer to the arrangements in the area of compulsory health insurance, the Regulation on the method of exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. How do they handle them? Do they edit them the way I said? What we all wanted to hear from you, that's what we heard. You said the system is not responding, the system is wrong, and believe me, as you know, as your associates know, as people who work in health care know, so do patients that the system is wrong. If the most ordinary operation anyone's life depends on needs someone to pay to skip the six-year waiting list, then the system's not working. If when you're sick, you can't heal yourself at the moment, but you should go to some waiting list, the system's not working. I'm not talking about corruption or other things. We've really had a responsible approach to this patient's right, and we've been asking you to tell me what deadlines someone can schedule a checkup and get out of the arguments of those who wrote this. We've heard from you, Mr. Minister, that you want to change the system. Those sitting next to you won't change it, I'm sure because they were sitting next to the former minister. Please answer because you promised to change the system. You've proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58924	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58925	This member of amending and supplementing the law refers to the evaluations of health technologies used to improve people's health through prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation. The amendment proposes to delete the item 8 which is added after Article 7 and in Article 67. The health care law. The position is – closer to the conditions, as well as the way in which health technology assessment is carried out, giving an opinion in accordance with this law, as well as other issues that are closer to regulating the work and functioning of the Health Technology Assessment Commission is prescribed by the minister. The minister has 38 different powers in this law, which means that he can, in accordance with his many powers, amend this law by subsequent regulations. I don't think it's necessary to give additional powers to a minister who, at the very least, doesn't have to be sufficiently professional for medical technology assessment problems. An entirely existing solution in the law is that the Health Technology Assessment Commission, which has been educated as an expert body for the job, does so. We in the Government have a minister of agriculture, trade, forestry and water industry who is a lawyer by profession and a minister of environment, mining and spatial planning who is a doctor by profession. Imagine that lawyer Dusan Petrovic prescribes a way of working and functioning meliorisation, for example, or Oliver Dulic to prescribe what technologies will be used in the cave exploitation of copper. It may happen that in the next government, if God were to make up the same coalition again, that the health minister should be someone who is a professor of literature or ballerina, for example, so that they prescribe closer conditions, as well as the way in which they evaluate health technology and regulate the work and functioning of the Commission for the Assessment of Health Technologies. Because the SRS is going to meet events that are not difficult to predict, given the experience with various coalitions in the past, made up of minor parties of a large blackmailing capacity and appetite towards certain ministries and the possibility that both a professor of literature or a ballerina can be a minister of health and a minister of education, for example, we suggest that the pilot delete this member of the amendments and supplementing the Health Protection Act. There is no need for such investment by the minister, unless the minister dares to point out those failures by the Commission regarding the verified non-secure dental technology on dental machines 40 to 50 years of age still in use. For example, I work at my workplace in the health center of Bor, which is eastern Serbia, with such a "doriot" machine from the 1960s. For those of you who aren't dentists to explain, it's that machine that spins the rope over my head and the heads of my patients, the children, who can scalp us at any moment, which they can no longer find spare parts, even on a flea market. Some ruling majority MPs have claimed that there is taboo among us opposition MPs in introducing new technologies in health care, that we do not understand the need to introduce new technologies in the form of electronic cards and electronic health records. We understand perfectly all health issues and there are no taboo topics for us. We can't wait for the public to find out how much money is intended for the introduction of new technologies in health care, stolen through a set-up tender, through contracts of work, through dealing with pharmacies, as an epilogue of all that. Only then can we speak in a real and professional way about new and verified safety technologies in treatment, electronic monitoring of patients, electronic integration of health institutions and other health problems. That'll be when we get rid of the quasi experts and their mentors. For more than 10 years, I've been looking for new technologies in my work, but I don't get them. It took a lot of elaborate equipment to torture both ourselves and our patients, and it was taboo topic in our health, not an electronic newspaper, because we didn't leave the last century, given the technology that's in circulation in our health care. In the principle debate, Mr. Minister, you specifically apostrophe of patients' rights to dental health care. Personally, I think it's a minor improvement, a drop in the ocean of problems in the health sector and reform experiments since 2005, when it's been decimated and mutilated dental health care, a health care sector that hasn't been able to re-institute its professional association the dental chamber and after the amendments to the Chamber Act that we've had and after two failed attempts to make the choice of new Authorities of the Chamber, following these changes. It was still a deadline for administrative oversight of the Chamber. If you have an honest intention to solve this problem, then you cannot go with the same people or those close to them, who are identified as the main culprits for failure in the operation of the chamber in the past and for the third time, as members of the election committee. That's why we didn't even have the position of the dental chamber by amending these laws. We heard on the Committee on Health and Family the views of the present representatives of the Medical Chamber, the Pharmaceutical Chamber, the Chamber of Biochemists, etc., who stated that some of their suggestions were respected. Is it the intention to extend elections for the authorities of the dental chamber, so that the professional association cannot hear all those objections that are related to the functioning of the dental protection of citizens? I believe it isn't, but if you can't solve corruption alone as a ministry, you're asking for the help of other state authorities, you don't need it for this problem. All it takes is sincere intent and goodwill in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58926	Thank you. I apologize to Mr. Predrag Mijatovic, I give my word, but according to the previous amendment, because there was some misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58927	Thank you. I wanted to discuss amendments to the DSS parliamentary group on respect for the patient's time. It's sad that in this country we respect the patient's time when the patient supports it with a certain amount of money. There's a basic problem, Mr. Minister. When did the waiting lists come up? The waiting lists were created when the former minister introduced additional work. Then there were waiting lists. By that time, patients were somehow able to operate within a reasonable period of time to get medical help within a reasonable period of time. The moment the supplemental work was introduced, you were no longer small but at the large door, or the ministry brought crime into the health care door. That may be unpopular to say it, but the ministry has allowed it, and it won't change it like you won't change it, the supplemental work, but you keep on doing it. Because what's going on? You let people, or doctors, operate in a supplemental, vampire clinic, at night, say, at two, three, four in the morning, to improve their material condition. It is normal to make a waiting list – we will not operate on the six of them this morning, but we will operate on the three of them with a break, and we will switch the rest to the waiting list or, please, you do not have to go on the waiting list but you can come vampireically at three o'clock the day after, so you will be operated. That's what we let them do. We allowed them only in the home institution, and we allowed them to work in other, private offices and private operating rooms, where there's also no waiting list, simply because it's supported by money. We've introduced money into health care as a basic measure of value to help a patient. I also said that on the Health Committee, if you want to make amends and stay remembered, to wash the edge that all doctors have, to abolish the corrupt law, to put an end to the supplemental work. You won't have a waiting list anymore, you won't have those huge affairs in the newspapers that we've had and we have and you just tighten up control. But you have to cancel the supplemental work because it's the most corrupt law in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58928	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mrs. Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58929	This member of the amendment is complemented by health technologies, i.e. the responsibility of the Health Technology Assessment Commission. You are proposing these amendments that the Health Technology Assessment Commission may, for the purposes of assessing and giving an opinion in accordance with this law, request a professional position from the competent republican expert commission, competent health institutions of the relevant college, scientific and research institutions, public agencies and other bodies, or organisations, as well as from prominent experts on the issue of the Commission's competence. We in the SRS are seeking to delete this member, as the commission is an expert body and it is not appropriate to seek the expert position of the competent republican expert commission. You have also deleted point 6 of this amendment, which says: "The Health Technology Assessment Commission is giving an opinion on setting priorities for the procurement of medical equipment, as well as on investment in health care institutions from the network plan". I don't know what was the reason to delete this point from Article 68 of the Law, when this professional body is the most competent for this job and every opinion on priorities is given based on consideration of needs, analysis, comparisons, etc. Based on government and ministry's work so far, all decisions are made in line with political interests that rarely coincide with the interests of citizens, other than ignoring the expert public's views on the adoption of amendments and additions to these laws, you also give up the opinions of the commission that you yourself have set up, by eradicating point 6. An explanation of why you did it was given to the Health Committee when we were told it was an anti-corruption measure. If you wanted the commission to ask colleges, prominent experts, organizations and all others you have listed in these matters, then what is the expert commission doing? It is understood that none of these potential professionals will do so for free, and why would they? Then where's the anti-corruption measure? So your slogan – the expertise in front of politics has long been transformed into an interest ahead of the profession. In the explanation of this article, you say that the provisions relating to the acquisition of the professional position of individual institutions and organisations are specified. In Article 68, through seven points, you have listed what all this commission is doing, and the way it will obtain the necessary professional attitude is the position of its work plan and there is no need for precision through this law. That is why we feel that this is unnecessary and that this article of the bill should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58930	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 140. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Martynski.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58931	Thank you. As a Committee, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which we have practically only expanded the list of those which the Ministry of Health will inform about new health technologies, where existing institutions dealing with this, the Agency for the Accreditation of Health Institutions of Serbia and the Institute of Public Health, established for the territory of the Republic, are also added to the Institute for Public Health established for the territory of the AP for a simple reason – for better and faster coordination and dissemination of information on the decisions made. We thank the Ministry for their understanding and for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58932	The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58933	Thank you. In this article, we wanted to make a certain change in the way in which one document is important for the pharmaceutical profession, which should simply be a sublimation of their activities, restrictions in work, laying the basics that are important for the functioning of the profession at different levels, starting with what they do in the direct places for the distribution of medicines, therefore, in the pharmacies or pharmacies themselves, finally to what is recommended as working standards. So, this good apothecary practice as we understand it should work for someone who is really the most competent, one particular circle of people who are conditionally said, since the chamber unites all pharmacists can be found in the chamber. Discussable was only through which body and what was the real interest of the chamber when it was not intended in its description of the autochthonous work to bring exactly this type of act, so we thought that we would strengthen it by other professional associations. What we have received in response is the possibility that the association proposed by the Council of the newly reformed Association of Pharmaceuticals of Serbia in the Alliance of the Pharmaceuticals Association, a lack of association of citizens, even though it can be seen to be truly dissociative and has subspecies and different species. So, people who could be useful, almost taken, if they were like all the members of the chamber then they would be members of the chamber, but surely whether they would come as members of the chamber into some working group or not, is not the same probability of their influence as when society prior to that gives a denied proposal. More widely, it could fall to pharmaceutical schools, professors, cathedrals, if that's what we're looking at. Why is this attitude 3 ignoring the need that we put in place to take experience, let's say in the world about it. Nowhere here in the legislative proposal you're making for a change is domestic experience, and now you, for the sake of it, we're not going to change your amendment because you're ignoring your homework. No, as it's written, it's implied, our laws both of them and thirds, etc., we rely on it all, on our insurance and on the experiences that are in the world. It's impossible, so we can't bring the pharmacopoeia that we don't know the European Pharmacopoeia, to treat it. It's impossible to automatically enter the pharmaceutical industry, pharmaceutical needs and demand, such a serious profession, without knowing how things are regulated in the world. So, the most powerful country in the world, finally leading the good clinical practice and the rest we used, was not invented by the Chamber of Health Professionals, or the Medical Chamber. It's something that was received and translated at the beginning, or we use English versions for a specialist drug study. So there was no need to get away from anyone in this work still helping us, not to put on the chamber jurisdiction that she might be running away from. You know, chambers are interested in taking profits, taking money, participating somewhere in KME, maybe being users of a piece of that money, the dental chamber can make cumbersome gatherings, they can get a lot of money for points, for KME. I don't know how famous that is for them, KME, but if they take that watch, one point is worth a thousand dinars. So, 24 points, so times the number of doctors, that's a huge profit, where, of course, part of the organizer pulls, you're going to hang out for the very voluntary jobs they're doing during the organization, the question of part of the funds that are obtained from it, and I mean, that neither the pharmaceutical chamber nor the pharmaceutical chamber will be excluded from it, and it will always have a good sponsor, a good sponsor, a good sponsor, a pharmaceutical house will certainly help them in everything, but perhaps not in order to get this code. We do not think, therefore, that the adoption of this guide, the apothecary practice, this written act, the general regulator of their behaviour, is something to exclude today the fastest association such as the Union of Pharmaceuticals, if they cease to exist once the guide has been passed, then we will by law delete or we will find another solution, but at least let them participate in the first adoption of good apothecary practice for the needs of our health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58934	Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Mr. Momchilov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58935	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are discussing today in this rather uncertain atmosphere for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, it seems that this Assembly does not care much, but what is there. Let's move on. In this amendment, I wanted to try to influence the promoter, that he might understand better the matter he wanted to normalize things on. What did the promoter suggest to us? He suggested to us speaking about pharmaceutical activity, that there is a term of good apothecary practice and then it must be in line with this law, as well as a law governing the field of medicines and medical resources, a law governing health insurance, and in line with the modern, professional achievements of the pharmaceutical profession. She needs to be harmonised, I mean, she needs to be the other way around. I tried to explain it to them, and now I'm going to tell the citizens where I find a foothold for this opinion. So it can't be a good pharmaceutical practice that depends on any law, because it's a matter of purely professional thinking and the activity of the profession. To go only to the pharmaceutical chamber site and to see the definition, good pharmacy practice can be characterized as a description of the requirements that allow the pharmacist to provide an adequate quality of service to any patient or customer, either in a public or hospital pharmacy. What does it mean? The provision of medical, medical and other medicinal products relevant to human health, the provision of services and the provision of advice and instructions on the correct use of medicinal products and organic products, where the law will deal with instructions on the proper administration of medicinal products. Unsolicited effects, possible drug interactions, how the law will deal with this, so to speak, pharmaceutical practice in accordance with the law. I guess it's the other way around, at least that's what it seems to me. If you're looking at principles alone, there's four of them. The first and primary duties of the pharmacist are the well-being of the patient, which is not controversial. The point is, it's not going to impose, fix and devastate. The essence of pharmaceutical activity is the supply of drugs and other products of proven, safe quality. Who's gonna prove it? That's all a waist can do. Provide adequate information and advice to the patient, as well as monitoring the effects of the medicines used. The integral part of the pharmaceutical contribution of the Law on the Protection and Promotion of the rational and economic regulation of medicines and the correct use of medicines. This is what makes the content, as well as the goal of each element of pharmaceutical service is relevant to the patient, is clearly defined and effectively communicated to everyone involved. To finish, but that won't be a sign enough for our proposings. In order to meet these requirements, certain preconditions are needed. The essence of apothecary practice must be professionalism. Although it has been accepted that economic factors are also important. You can't have the laws you counted to dictate good pharmaceutical practice, which depends exclusively on the profession. But in our laws, however, everything can, because our advisors who help our ministers allow themselves anything, that they understand nothing about things that are absolutely incompetent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58936	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. There's no answer for word. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58937	Thank you. We only wanted to change this position in part. In this original form – in the framework of the Centre for Rare Diseases, jobs are carried out. Now, that's where we wanted to get into - records and rare diseases. So our amendment intervention is that only the killer is this - the records. Why? This proposed change points to the need to make a record of the list of so-called "the Center for Rare Diseases", above all. rare diseases, in order to know exactly which diseases fall within that category, and above all, which of the existing registered ones can be expected in these areas. It certainly wouldn't be a final list, but it would be the basis for the laboratory and other equipment necessary for the diagnosis, as well as for the planning of treatment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58938	The amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58939	Article 16 refers to Article 101. The Health Protection Act, which deletes paragraphs 4 and 5. It is good that you are erasing Section 5 that the minister prescribes good apothecary practice, especially if the future minister is not of the profession. I explained that it could happen when I talked about article 8 of the amendment and the addition of this law. A good apothecary practice should be established by the Pharmaceutical Chamber in agreement with the Minister of Health Affairs, as you have proposed these changes. You don't need to delete item 4. It represents a more comprehensive and precise solution. This is that the pharmacy performs pharmaceutical health work in accordance with good pharmaceutical practice, i.e. in accordance with the guidelines of good laboratory practice, good practice in distribution, good manufacturing practices for the manufacture of galenical medicines, which has elements of industrial production in accordance with the law governing the area with medicines and medical resources. All these good practices are prescribed from EU law when some of the previous changes and additions to health care were made. Your Brussels Europeans will resent you for this, so we, radicals, must defend you from becoming a condition one day over the conditions for joining the EU. Item 4. The health care law determines exactly what goes into good apothecary practice. In your explanation, you state that the question of these members is legal technical harmonisation with the provisions of Article 12 of this Act. Since the SRS parliamentary group has requested an erasure from Article 12 and if you change your mind and adopt it, then the proposal for this amendment is a logical trail in amendments and additions. You, Mr. Minister, have said that this law will apply in Kosovo and Metohija, but I ask – how, given the current situation that is now happening in our province, where our people are killed there, under the rates of the Cypriot so-called. Police. Are there measures taken from your jurisdiction and from the health ministry's authority to protect our citizens there and to provide them with adequate medical care?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58940	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58941	We have to stop here. You see, the legislator introduces the old law instead of the Gerontology Institute, the Gerontology and Paliatical Care Institute. It's something that's absolutely illegal. I'm going to have to tell citizens now that this kind of stew in the law cannot be allowed, because of the citizens of Serbia. Let's start with a brief definition of what it is, the Paliatical Care, as defined by the World Health Organization. This is an active comprehensive concern for patients whose disease is incurable, pain control and other symptoms of disease, as well as psychological and social and spiritual problems of patients and their families and of paramount importance. So, the paliation involves patients suffering from incurable diseases, involves their families and involves one socially, so to speak, an upgraded sphere of relations with the civil sector, NGOs, volunteers, spiritual spiritual life representatives, religion. I'm surprised she agreed to write something like this. What would this mean if we accepted? They would only accept that something called age, which is not a disease, an object of paliation, and unfortunately, the subject of paliation can be the smallest children. We are often given explanations of compliance with international documents. We also find the observation sometimes of some uninvited – how are you now, against joining the EU? Of course we are, and we understand why. So you're referring to European principles? Of course, we are referring to civilization, European and world principles, not the EU principles alone. Two declarations concern this problem. The European Declaration of Patients' Rights says – patients have the right to relieve pain in agreement with the existing and pain of knowledge in this area and patients have the right to humane care at the terminal stage of untreated diseases and the right to die with dignity. The Council of Europe's recommendation, which you may be quoting somewhere, 1418 of 1999, says – each individual with an incurable disease in the Member States should have the same right to quality palitative care. There is no such definition in the country of Serbia. You're still giving up what the Council of Europe said, and that's due to us. We recognise the Council of Europe as an institution of which we are a member. We have no idea how many patients are suffering and dying from these diseases. What's interesting is an interesting history, but to start with today. If you go to the site, "Helloskop" is called, then you have an article: "ignitive care – a weak point of health care in Serbia". It is said this - the EU delegation in Serbia is a public project for the development of palitative care in Serbia, financed by the EU with 3.5m euros. So it's the money and the project. Somebody's gonna say, "Yeah, we can pull out why this relationship exists." What's the problem? The institution of hospice is an institution that needs to take care of and help these sick people, so that they can get over these pains more easily, and they absolutely didn't live with us. That's what we're talking about, too, and we have a strategy that we brought back in 2005. Ten of our representatives, some of the representatives of the Ministry of Health traveled to America a few years ago, some went to England, visited hospices from the Ministry of Health, and of course nothing. But there is nothing in Serbia, there is a private organisation called "Belhospis", which also has a specialist in paliatical medicine, which also organised a school, which insists on what are the principles of paliatical care and care and which strives to achieve those tasks within its borders. She insists on two things she asks the legislator that this protection must be completely free of charge, both to the sick and to the family. It has also been asking for years to make it possible for the specialists of palitative medicine, see now, they're from the private sector, but we don't look at it with sympathy, at least when it comes to legislator, they have the right to prescribe analgesics primarily, and there are other medicines that these patients need. Of those many promises that have been repeated for years, how we will create teams that will go on the ground, that will go on in houses, out of health homes, 88 homes of health, so we will have in institutions a number of beds where these patients will be able to take care of, the rest are empty stories. In this law, this is just one nakaradic representation of the problem of paliation, gerontology can be a part of the paliation, but paliation can't be a part of gerontology. We ask you, don't do this, this is not in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, this is just to justify travel and funds. The Council of Europe held here a few years ago, as I recall, a very thematic conference on this subject, and nothing was done. If you're just looking at the press inscriptions from 2005, 2006, 2008, I'm not going to read them, therefore, this is not done like this, and this is another proof of how bad, superficial and inapplicable this law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58942	The word is Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58943	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, and on the Committee on Health, I have come forward on this subject and certainly supported that we need to talk more and more seriously about this subject than we have done so far. As a head and neck surgeon, I have patients who are in very poor condition, not just me, but all the surgeons who are fighting tumors anywhere, in any organ, and have situations to meet with patients when all the options of surgical and medical treatment are exhausted and when these patients are left to themselves. their families who don't know how to deal with very difficult conditions in their loved one's body. They watch these patients die in the most terrible pains, because mostly when more medical treatment fails, when we as surgeons can't do anything anymore, it says that the patient with metastases, with the inability to speak, the inability to eat, the inability to run. I think as the social democratic orientation of the DS, it will be advocated that paralytic medicine comes to life in Serbia. Certainly, given the very bad economic situation in the world, even in our country, it certainly is now that the Ministry of Health is not in a situation to meet and I understand it as a folk MP, and as a doctor, I will try to make sure that the palitative has special hospitals in Serbia and that it is impossible to treat such patients in gerontological centres or through health homes. You should have specialized teams, and whoever hasn't met with such difficult patients, I don't think he has the right to say that we can do it in some other way. These are patients who require a lot of love, care and care, as well as health workers, not to leave them to the mercy and mercy practically fate, which is already known to them and that family and friends, who had them in some good memories, that these last moments survive those difficult hours and those difficult days. I think that as a responsible state, we need to get the strength to at least in bigger cities, and what we don't say in the destroyed clinical centers, we have one of the hospitals that will deal with patients this difficult. This is what Serbian citizens who find themselves in such situations deserve from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58944	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. You have your word, Mrs Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58945	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to article 18 is a logical follow-up to the amendment submitted by Dr. Momchilov to article 17. We have already heard enough arguments why it is necessary to establish the Paliatical Care Office as a special institution. I'll just try to get some more of the arguments out. How serious the problem is talking about the very strategy for the Paliatical Care brought by the Government. The data in it, in every sense, is worrying, can be said freely with fear. In addition to this data in the strategy itself, the proposal for a bilateral care organisation is not adequate to the current situation in the Republic of Serbia, which is also described in the strategy and which says – that the basic characteristics of the population in the Republic of Serbia are maintaining a low birth rate and ageing population, with an increase in general mortality rates. The mortality rate rose from 8.2 in 1986 to 13.9 people died to 1,000 people in 2006. This is data with no AP KiM data. The strategy also lists groups of diseases and conditions that lead to the need for palitative care. It says that malignant tumours participated 19.7% in all causes of death in 2006 and were the second cause of death in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the data's back with no AP KIM data. Compared to other European peoples, these data placed us in the middle risk of dying from malignancies in 2006. Otherwise, men were the most sick and dying of lung cancer, colon and rectum, prostate, stomach, and women of breast cancer, lung, colon, rectum, uterus and stomach. The next group of heart and blood vessels have a share of 57.3% in all causes of death in 2006 and these are also data without AP KIM. The rate of death from heart and blood vessels from 2001 to 2006 increased by 10.6% in women and men by 7.2%. The next group – diabetes, this is the fifth leading cause of mortality of all causes of death and to eat cause of burden with disease. The number of diabetes patients has been growing for many years. The data are again given without data for AP KiM and say that the mortality rate, from 23.2 to 100,000 inhabitants, has taken our country to a group of European countries with the highest dying rate of this disease. They're estimated, here they say "today," and whether they're referring to 2006 or 2009, when a strategy was made, I can't say exactly, but there were half a million people with diabetes. The next group -- obstructive lung diseases, are the fourth cause of death in the Republic of Serbia. Then, HIV infection. In the Republic of Serbia, also data without AP KiM, 1,352 people were reported from 1985 to 2006, and 905 died. It means 67% of the dead. In 2006, 51 newly registered persons died, 24. Next group – car accidents and traumatism. The data for 2006, which is said to have injured 18,411 people, of which 4,778 persons or 25,9% with severe physical injuries that lead to functional disability to carry out activities in everyday life and require assistance from another person. The fact is that the largest percentage of the population that is without the help of another person cannot carry out personal care activities is persons aged 65 to 74. However, there is also a big problem with younger people. I mean not only the last two groups – HIV infected and injured in car accidents, but all these groups of patients. That's why we submitted these amendments. That's why it's our view that the paliation can't just be part of gerontology. On this occasion, I just want to say a few more words about the amendment that was submitted to article 18 and Mrs Rajkov, who was also not accepted, which refers to the care of persons with disabilities under the age of 65. This applies to those persons who can't live on their own. I want something else I talked about earlier this time, when some other laws were passed. It's about people with disabilities who can work. And today, disabled persons from the DES, just a few hundred meters from the Assembly, strike in front of the Ministry of Economy. This does not honor any ministry or government, but we will do more when we talk about amendments to the Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58946	Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58947	If you are reading what the promoter said, and he said that the Institute of Gerontology and Paliatical Care is a health care institution where the health care of old people is performed and measures are implemented to preserve and improve the health and prevention of the disease of this population group. How come when they're already sick and they're from terminal diseases? This is cynicism. You're going to work at the Bureau to prevent the disease? You may think of other diseases, but it's not coming from this at all, as you wrote it. If you've already made one of your own illicit medical devices, I'm not going to say gaff, I don't know what right word to use, that there's someone lying in the Bureau together who's in a terminal HIV disease with some old citizen of ours who has Alzheimer's and some childhood that has some other disease, and that doesn't bother you, without doing what you promised, that I'm not reading to you right now: 88 centers, how many beds you promised years ago and when you don't allow a private NGO to carry out their activities with the law, don't even do this. This is a shame, this insults the dignity of Serbian citizens. Unauthorized, inhumane. We understand why you will not allow the civil sector the right place in all these activities. Because they're resting their activity in the world on donations. It's the money. Wherever the money is, there's your regulation, and there's you to grab it and grab it. If it were different, you would have foreseen them and regulated them for the sake of a couple of Europeans to write such insubstantial provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58948	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Paja Momcilov and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58949	You said the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, so I expected colleagues to report first. Since they haven't answered their word, I'll take your word for it. What's this about? We suggested that this member be deleted. Most of our interventions regarding the legislative proposals on the agenda today contain this provision. Why? It's precisely because we want to say that this law can't even be fixed and that some solutions in the old law are even better than these, back and forth, recklessly passed legal solutions. We didn't talk for formal reasons that we didn't know where the funds would be obtained when the country's rights were enormously extended where neither those drawn as mandatory rights were realized. You can't leave 3,500 citizens in Vojvodina today and not treat them because you don't have enough radiation machines. You can't do it today, you can open a cardio hall in Valjev, and then you can put an angel hall there, and then you can build stents, and then you can put Valev on the needs of Valev, who delivers the sum, say, of about eight million dinars, you can send three million, and you say, treat it. It is not and do not treat now the vitally endangered citizens of Serbia at this time. But let me get rid of it. That's what we were talking about, getting a little bit more of this interesting member. What did the legislator want? He's introducing a whole new administration. Look, there's not enough sector at the Department of Health, now we're going to head with the directors, with the assistant directors, let's get over it. They say, "We will do it from our ranks." Your ranks we've seen these eight years, we've met, I think we should thank you for the effort you've made, most likely from the best and most noble initiatives. However, the results of your efforts are disastrous in the health of Serbian citizens. When someone now edits this area of screening in this way and wants to put these duties on himself, we are not only constipated and congregated, but we are most energetically prepared to protest. What do you say? You add one three-member, watch out, the place of the 129th goes 129a, so it goes b, so it goes d, and the norms need to be clear, short, accurate. No, you place one member of three members. Let's read them – propose adoption, this administration, special screening of health care programmes, that is, their changes and additions, proposes the adoption of standards for implementing the screening programme, proposes the adoption of expert methodological instructions for implementing the screening program. The administration can't do that, especially you who are sitting there today. It can only be done by professions, professional organizations everywhere in the world, not even professional organizations should deal with this. Is there one of the authorities in the state that is not a non-governmental sector, what will the professional organisations, who is in charge of this? Of course there is. Batut, Institute of Public Health. These are the problems of a couple of public health policy excellencies. In Batut, you've built offices that don't live. I'm not going to read to you right now, I have here in front of me what you haven't achieved from the projects and how much you've spent so far on screening projects. I don't want to talk about non-living prevention centers, because they're not equipped, you haven't even materially equipped them, let alone human beings that can work normally. You again, to cloud things again, but of course in the way of the promise of a party that we've been listening to for the past 10 years, I'm going to once read you all these promises to remind ourselves a little bit, to have a little fun, maybe if I get there today, again, you're giving the citizens false hopes of something that is absolutely unnecessary, and it won't live, and most tragically, it won't give any results, as it's never given before. Why are we so sharp in our criticism? It is precisely because the results of the deaths of malignancies, which are mainly meant to be the subject of this administration, are catastrophic and intolerable for Serbia, which also has a long tradition in the organisation of health services, and something like this is unacceptable. We're against the introduction of such premeditated administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58950	The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58951	I'd like to, of course, agree with everything we've heard about this completely. Our reasons were about the same. The formation of a new institution, new directors, new directors, new business space, new payments, everything at the level of primary health care, something that Batut and his organisational unit can do in the Republic of Serbia, seduces public health, if that's what to call it, is completely unnecessary and we did not expect in an attempt to reform which was suggested by the minister and someone deviating from earlier, but not just a deviation – let the police and the authorities determine what wasn't done or the financial experts, but generally to leave the impression that you want to make a move towards this megalomania and the introduction of everything and everything – agency, administration, in general, that someone will work and be paid fat over what he does. We don't know exactly how many people are going to work, how much it's going to cost, how much it's already been designed. We know about the attempts, these screening programs, which were financed in part by the International Community, which are conducted on the ground, both breast and throat, etc. That's what they do, and now there's a lot of walking problems. Now these people need to regulate from the administration, be careful, regulate the way, implement, organise and scheme. It's already worked out in the field, it's just someone taking money for the new project, saying – well, it's going to be by making local self-government write calls. And how are you going to get the citizens to leave? Today, two-thirds of women do not report to gynaecological examinations, although both Saturdays and Sundays are done in villages, they meet patients, mobile mammographers ring Serbia, etc. There is a way that this is not resolved until the end, I don't believe the administration will be able, and it wasn't necessary, professional health commissions exist at the Ministry's level for all and all things, even for the level of a certain group of medicines in a particular narrow professional area. There are doctors who, of course, are paid less or more for it. Batut could do it right. We don't see any reason to introduce this, we don't see any explanation of how we're going to have a complicated patient. Now what – they'll take care of it from the board? He's gonna set up some boss, I don't know either, not to say names, people who are colorectal, etc., he's gonna be the head of that parade, and now he's gonna make some of his authority do things to a doctor of general practice and gynecologists as elected doctors and will patients on those screening checks to come. One should be educated, but no special education, take some money for education projects, when known – looking for acute bleeding and the number of symptoms that a medical student can count, and the other – gynaecological examinations, which are usually regular, otherwise periodical, otherwise given age range, intervals two – three years. Just for the gynecologist to realize that it simply has to keep records that exist for these types of screenings, to find a place for him to pay for it and there is a solution, without great couples, without great noise all the selected doctors at that level are finally obliged to perform preventive action. It's impossible to go to work and say – today I have to do prevention, today I have to prevent. You're just afraid that you've done enough of that prevention. But there's just something going on in the walk. As a general practitioner, he does not know whether he will be expected today by some pneumonia or some kind of respiratory infection or a digestive infection and must also work in the field of prevention. He has to do everything, so these doctors do it, put an accent on it, and this -- propaganda materials, what's going to go on TV, what's going to be printed, it's just a source of money laundering in the reference houses that's going to print it. It's already known who's going to do what, who's going to make whales for three samples for the chair. I believe it's all arranged as well as when we were doing these tables, who's gonna issue the plates, who's gonna get the permits, who's gonna get the first aid. I think you're working on a trail of what's already been seen and what's been in this Serbia's business description of the scale. It is good to do the Ministry of Prevention, you might be the originals in European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58952	The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58953	Look at how this debate of ours is going. Mr. Buha, because of his relatives in Kosovo, now has to run between the phones and inform himself of the condition of his closest and cannot defend an amendment that would normally defend them. To touch the amendment itself. What was proposed by this amendment? We've suggested that Article 23 be deleted. What did that attitude predict that we felt should be deleted? Article 130 states: "The health institutions' organisations shall continue to carry out operations in accordance with the law and the statutes of the health institution until the day of appointment of new, or temporary bodies." Article 134 of the same law, when it comes to the director, says: "the founder of the perpetrators of the duties". Why isn't the same principle, what is behind this, what is this unique legal solution? For one in the same institution and institution, and for members of the Supervisory and Management Board the other. How can he do that? I guess we're all equal and equal before the law. What's going on here? It happens here that this way at a small door, we know how things work with us and how laws apply, introduces a derrogation of choices and re-elections. So this could take, uh, management and surveillance, to the infinitely theoretically, hopefully, in practice, don't let God think that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58954	The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58955	We have submitted an amendment to this article 23, which used to be a member of 130. That Article 23 lists the bodies of the health care institution as director, board of directors and supervisory board and then lists which of these bodies would be managed by the government, appointed and resolved by the minister and in the last position are listed persons who cannot perform those functions in order to resolve the conflict of public and private interest. Finally, this attitude was added, read by counterpart Paja Momcilov, not to read it, where it is now possible for health institutions to continue to carry out tasks in accordance with the law until the appointment of new authorities. First, according to us, absolutely this attitude does not belong to this member. If only functions are listed here, then there is no need for this position to stand in this article, it should stand in a member who deals with the issue of the length of the mandate of both the director and the board members, so that the place of this position certainly does not belong to this member but to a member who defines the mandate of the managing authority. Since this position has been added here, we have, by our amendment, not to read it completely, added instead of Article 6, paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 and the essence of these views, that the authorities are elected and named on the basis of a public competition to be called six months before the end of the term of office. In the next position, we said that these authorities of the health care institution, which have expired if no new one has been elected, that the founder is obliged to appoint a temporary body, but that they cannot be members in that composition of the provisional body that were in the previous period. Why? Well, we are aware that it is quite widespread that for a variety of reasons, I am talking about health institutions in Serbia, or not having a timely discussion of competitions or these competitions in the election of directors get more than legal time and in this way some people, and they are members of the ruling coalition, legally extend their mandate. This further strengthens the legal mandate for individual people who, for various reasons, cannot be elected again and who are trying in many ways to extend the election of directors. The minister probably knows how many health institutions or general hospitals in Serbia there are officials. I know a health center where the performer of this medical center has been for four years an employee of duty from, not to get into it, the arguments of a different kind. This attitude that we are against is precisely because something which unfortunately became applicable in practice, that individual directors and board members, who are members of the ruling coalition, remain significantly longer in those functions than we should have. Now, since we have limited in these attitudes and tried to rightly resolve the competition with our amendment in time, that the temporary authorities are properly named. The government's answer is that the amendment is rejected because it is said that the health care law and the selection procedure are chosen by the director on the basis of a public competition defined in the same way as we have given, but in Articles 132 to 136. Okay, well, we knew that, too, but we had to react to this attitude and because of the poor practice that is present in certain health institutions. The second reason you refused is because you said it was six months too long. Why is it too long? Why don't we take an analysis of the individual competitions of individual health institutions? Why do you want to extend your mandate to those who are not elected until the end of the competition? It's better to start early and six months, so in six months, the election will be over, than the election will be over in three months. It is known that in colleges elections or re-elections are discussed six months earlier for various reasons, technical and administrative reasons. It's better to have a longer period of choice. The explanation that six months is too long is not good because in practice we have a lot of officials who just appoint a ministry. We believe that this amendment of ours is adequate and adequate, given the member in this position where you put it. Basically, this is very clear. It is clear that this is what you want to strengthen legislation, where you will allow your elected staff, when necessary, and you may not have an adequate replacement or not the coalition partners agreed, to extend the mandate and to make it all clear and to say it is by law. The goal of this attitude and essence is what I said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58956	Mr. Prince, from the time of the authorized representative? Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word is Mr. Tomic Zeljko.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58957	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 27, we have submitted the amendment following our intensities and in the past several years, where we have noticed that the government often mentions the AP in one, not referring to autonomous provinces, and we know that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia has two autonomous provinces. In particular, the words "Autonomic province or local self-government units" are suggested to be changed in words: "Autonomic provinces or units of local self-government". You have, in your explanation, rejected this amendment, as you have said – because it does not improve the text of the law or since it does not have the essential character. It's not every amendment of essential character and it doesn't have to be. It can also be technical. It's a little unprincipled, and I'd even say incorrect. Namely, the usual normative practice in accordance with the methodology for making the rules implies that the nouns are shown in a single and regardless of the fact that a certain legal situation that is regulated refers to a number of entities, and you deny yourself because you are in article 158 of which was a discussion just before is held is mentioned in the multitude of health institutions, professional associations, chambers, higher education institutions, etc. Why not follow the constitutional principle that Serbia has two provinces? In the past two days alone, it could have been possible for us to truly have full confidence that this authority had given up a province. Because if you say, as we know, the negotiations on Kosovo are ongoing, or are now interrupted, and Chief Negotiator Stefanovic informs us that they are positive for Serbs, e, how positive they have been seen in the previous two days. What the DSS parliamentary group absolutely wants is a debate on KIM at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... (President: But we are now discussing the health care law, please. I warn you to stick to the agenda for the first time. ) Mr. Novakovic, in this law, says there is only one province in Serbia. I speak on that behalf, and we want this opportunity to encourage all the MPs and the public that this debate on KIM is also being held here. As long as it's written... (President: For the second time, I warn you to return to the topic relating to health care. ) Yes, but it says here – Autonomous province, not autonomous provinces. There's a big difference. And of course it gives me the right, and not only to me but to every citizen of Serbia, to wonder – how many more legislative proposals will this government make with an autonomous province, referring to Vojvodina. What about the other autonomous province? That's why we're looking for a debate, just so it's not on the Brnjak or the Jarinjs, it's here to discuss it. So I urge that this amendment be accepted, because I showed you and proved that you wrote about many things in the plural and that you did not accept this principle, and we only ask that the principle be – if Serbia has two provinces, that it writes in every government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58958	The constitution says local self-government. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58959	With this amendment, we wanted to put, in a certain way, any way we can understand it, under the protection of professional consultants coming from abroad to provide health services to Serbian citizens. Whether it will be just for Serbian residents or someone from another neighbouring republic, the former Yugoslavia, will come to Serbia, it doesn't matter. The great experts who often bring and the equipment with them invest work, very often, at least that's what we think and say, do volunteer work, for the best purposes, and many times those who are richer, more visible and well-intentioned, if not too expensive, leave our health institutions. To do something to question such a man and to put his expertise, his qualification, by being forced to go to the medical chamber of Serbia and to ask for a three-month, six-month work permit, and in principle he will come and who knows when again, we find it pointless, that it is unnecessary. And so far it's worked without it. Because someone so respected doesn't come from an environment where they don't have a license. For a long time our country had no license, we almost introduced them, Europe had before, America has them. So it's hard to imagine that there's a state where there's no license right now, that it deals with a serious medical profession, and that someone like that will be a consultant in our health system. She might have excuses for those who don't have a license in their own country. But since in Article 2, in the points you've counted, you predict that such must have a home state license, it is completely unfounded that it is also required here to process the arrival and engagement of a person to delay. Shall we set things back a little bit? Do we know what is the validity and license of whoever is operating on our cardio-surgery patients in Turkey? Does this Turk, when he's operating on our patient, our insurance company, come here to do the same in some night clinics, private etc., there he is competent, has a license, here for a license to fight. As far as we know that those who are calling, and I think if something was to change in the law, it might strengthen the responsibility of a health care institution that invites a stranger to work, that indeed whoever calls is responsible to whom he has called and is indeed an expert and expert. Maybe it was meant to put an accent on it, but it simply couldn't have been amended to affect such an idea and that approach, but that these people really, whether they're going to work for a few hours or one or two days, they're going to go through the procedure, even though there's a secretary who's invited someone else, or not himself, to fuck around the Chamber. We know, however, that there is a code among doctors and that they will do it for each other. I didn't hear, I didn't even have time to ask around, because of this "emergency" law with the elements of the operation in 2013, to ask my colleagues who are going abroad if they're looking everywhere for a license, to open it there, or the license they have is enough. Many doctors who didn't have a license at a time when they didn't have any respect, went to other republics, other states, and now they're top cardio surgeons and doing well, and we here operate in Turkey or somewhere looking for some night and private clinics. So this was quite logical to accept the amendment, because we're actually not looking for anything special, we're looking for the condition that it was. You might also strengthen the responsibility of those who call, if we really want to, I don't know what kind of perceived danger to protect ourselves, that whoever calls, calls a man with a license, calls a prominent expert, so maybe it's kind of formalizing. This really doesn't make sense because very, very often it's about top experts, so whatever you tell him -- give me your license number, the man will feel uncomfortable, and if everything else ends with the secretary of the kid. Still, it's an unpleasant procedure, and many will wonder if it makes sense that they come when they're working for nothing, they invest for nothing, even if they're checking in our medical chambers here. If there is international co-operation, it exists on the site. It's easy to get an insight into someone who has a license and that there's nothing wrong with that man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58960	The word has been made by MP Aligrudic Milos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58961	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I hope, chairman, that unlike one of your colleagues, you will at least listen to the explanation of what the injury is, because only when I say it to the end will it make sense to tell me whether it exists or not, according to you. So I'm calling for a violation of article 27. It is a principle provision on the presidency and respect of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, and now this is an explanation, and on the application of article 106 by the chair during the session. The first attitude makes it clear that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Of course, it is the chairman's duty to warn the MP whenever the MP does not speak of the agenda, i.e. the point of the search. However, in parliamentaryism, in the political functioning of parliament, both in our country and in those before and in democracies across Western Europe, which should be some example in terms of parliamentary democracy, it is clear that a strict speech on the agenda does not mean such a narrow area. If you have, say, one member of the law like the previous members of the DSS. and Zeljko Tomic tried to explain in which the terms of the autonomous province exist, that is, and we propose autonomous provinces, in the plural, to give a description of the events, to explain why the amendment is proposed, what is the essence? Of course, it will go into the political story of both Kosovo and Metohija, because it is directly related to the issue of unity or plural in the law. My interpretation was, when I listened to it, that the MP strictly respected the topic discussed and a concrete proposal for an amendment that had these political implications, that was his explanation. Of course, he also spoke of events in the explanation, but that is no reason for him to break up. Let's get this straight in the voting day, if you don't think you've made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58962	I fully understood the injury you're implying to me, but I must remind you that I have not interrupted an MP with any single gesture in his presentation, except when he strays into the field, which is neither subject nor subject, or warned him to return to the topic. So, as far as Kosovo is not mentioned in this same political and legal dimension, there is no mention of Vojvodina either. How he recognized that it was not about one thing, and it was about another, or vice versa, it was about his approach and interpretation. That's why I didn't interrupt. Therefore, the injury you are calling for is not standing, you can consult a stenogram, see how your dialogue has been going, so except for my obligation under Article 106n, I have done nothing else. If you are not satisfied, of course, that the Assembly in the day of voting will declare this. You are not pleased, the Assembly will declare in the voting day the injury you have now implicated me. Mr. Martinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that you, Mr. Novakovic, are of course not with the intention of injuring the dignity of the National Assembly, because you have little attention, which is not your job, nor is it your job to be here as the political lawyer of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, so it was not your job to seek at the end of Mr. Zeljko Tomic's presentation, when he could no longer answer you, to mention local self-government in the Constitution. Mr. Novakovic, local self-government is not the same as the local unit. The local self-government is... (President: Mr. Martinovic, any mention of the Constitution in this respected home, can never be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I thank you for trying to educate me to teach me something about the Constitution... Finish it. Here you go. ) So local self-government Mr. Novakovic is not the same as the local self-government unit. Local self-government is under the Law on Local Self-Government the right of citizens to manage matters of local importance, and the unit of local self-government, a certain territorial unit in the Republic of Serbia, municipalities or a city in which the right to local self-government is exercised. As Mr Zeljko Tomic concluded that by using the word, or the AP in the one, the government of the Republic of Serbia was just about to erase Kosovo and Metohija, we can see from the statement by Boris Tadic. Mr. Minister, yesterday is Boris Tadic, if you believe me, he won the State Development Award...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58964	This cannot harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I do not doubt your expertise in the knowledge of the Constitution, administrative and other procedures. I accept that I may have made a mistake in the definition, and the Assembly will declare in the day of voting the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Milos Aligrudic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58965	In order to avoid confusion, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you just did, also by misbehave of Article 127, but by a completely different content of the injury compared to the one I pointed out, and now I'm going to explain it...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58966	Thank you. That's what we just heard. (Milos Aligrudic: You haven't heard, it's another injury, it's not the same. ) You cannot call on the same member from twice, I have also referred the reasons to Mr Martinovic, and this will be stated by the Assembly in the voting day and please do not throw it away. The 107th article was the subject of a debate, just finished, about the injury, if you don't have a new member, don't. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58967	So, like this, this way of leading a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly that you can commit each of us is exactly what you do, and I'll explain to you how. So you can't interpret your obligation and the right to chair the session and manage this process as a right to self-will. You're doing it right now in a direct transmission that can be listened to by citizens. So, I'm reporting to you on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the description of the event, and I'm reporting to you on the 107th, to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to explain to you what it consists of, and you're telling me that it's the same thing as a little bit, and you can take a stenogram of this conversation, to see that I haven't spoken to explain what the injury is... (President: You are calling on Article 107 again) ... Well, because your behavior offends me, it offends the dignity of this house, me and the DSS voters, and you have no right to behave like that. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58968	Thank you. There was someone else to answer the word. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Predrag Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58969	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, we have invested on this Article 29th one amendment or addition of that member, which says that it is forbidden to provide health care by doctors of medicine, doctors of dentistry, graduate pharmacist, or graduate pharmacist of a medical biochemist, on the basis of which profits are obtained, or any other kind of property or property used outside of a medical institution, or private practices that carry out their work in accordance with this law, except, and there is our change that we have sought, except for humanitarian and volunteer work. We believe that this, this provision must inevitably be found in this law, because this is how it would remain in this form if someone involved in volunteering or humanitarian work could be declared to be engaged in illegal work in some way and could come under the influence of the law. to be denied his license. I don't see why this thing wouldn't, why this particular thing wouldn't go into the law, that exactly and precisely who could, and who couldn't, because this kind of interpretation is pretty stretchy. The explanation that you gave, which you reject this amendment to the SNS, I must admit that I am quite vague and vague. I would also like for the citizens and for your sake, to read to you, why you said that this provision of volunteer and humanitarian work cannot be found in this member of the law. He says: "It is not possible to accept the amendment's proposal, to exempt from this ban humanitarian and volunteer work from health care workers, given that the proposed provision would be derivated. "I think it's pointless. That is to say, any work carried out without the permission of the Ministry of Health Affairs. What it means is that you should also give permission for humanitarian and volunteer work which is not carried out as supplementary work in accordance with the law in order to conceal its purpose could be declared humanitarian and volunteer work, accepting the proposed amendment would create certain conditions for certain abuses in this area. I mean, the explanation is for the explanation. An explanation that does not explain anything and an explanation that does not defend your position not to accept our amendment because you in this way will, under the influence of this law, come volunteer and humanitarian work and do not come under the influence of the law your supplemental work and the extra clinics we currently have, means work at 12.13 or at 2 nights, in three nights etc. Why don't you accept, because this explanation of yours doesn't stand in general, but I think you should reconsider your position and allow this bill to enter both volunteer and humanitarian work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58970	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58971	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. So, this amendment of ours is very similar, slightly different from the amendments submitted by colleagues from the SNS, i.e. you here by modifying an existing member 173 you say when it is forbidden to provide health care by doctors etc., and then you say that it is forbidden to act on the basis of which it acquires profit, or any other kind of property or non-proprietary benefit outside of a health institution etc. There is only one exception, except in case of emergency medical aid under the law. Our amendment suggests that this last part of the sentence reads "except in the case of humanitarian actions and the provision of emergency medical assistance in accordance with the law". So, your intention to a little, let me say, sharpen the provision of health care outside the health institution is not clear. However, not by disfellowshipping any action and medical assistance unless it comes to emergency medical attention. That's where you didn't predict at all. We believe that they should have been introduced except in the case of humanitarian actions, and colleagues had a little wider and volunteer action. We think you should have accepted our amendment. I'll say, let's say, a fresh memory from a month ago when, as an MP in a group of MPs, I have the honour of visiting a barracks in Vranj and our military base in the South, which is only a few kilometers from the administrative line with KIM. For example, in this room is Dr. Nikola Krpić, we were in this group together. We were told about it at the base, and they showed the whole film about the activities of doctors from that barracks and our bases as they tour the surrounding population and villages and where they provide some basic medical services to people who are old. By measuring their pressure, they might bring some medicine. Of course, they showed us this as a good practice that this barracks and base cultivates. The benefit of course isn't even cash, you say property here, but it's a non-equity benefit, and by building trust between the surrounding population. In particular, when it comes to this base, you know that there are villages in which the Albanian population and the village in which the Serb population live and that there is no such high level of trust between the Albanian population and our army in that part, so it is a benefit, but a non-equity benefit. I'm just curious right now, if when you adopt this amendment, some of those military doctors who do this are going to hit the Chamber and they're going to be in some position to take it from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58972	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. This time is scheduled for the debate of the parliamentary group to be used. There's 10 seconds left. The word is Mr. Aligrudić, and Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58973	Let's try it in ten seconds. So I think this solution is hypocritical, because if, on the one hand, you've allowed, legalized, long-legislative, it hasn't been amended, a supplemental work that's practically the source of any kind of corruption. On the other hand, you give a very narrow interpretation when it comes to volunteer practice for humanitarian purposes. It's just incomprehensible. Why don't you accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58974	Thank you. Mr. Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58975	Of course, I've been wasting the time of the parliamentary group all along, that's clear. The proposals of colleagues in the past are very rational and practical. Now let's see what happens when we interpret these rules that I just have to provide diagnostics and treatments in a health care facility or in private practice. At midnight, my daughter has 39 temperatures, I can't check her throat, I can't prescribe an antibiotic. Will I have my daughter's material advantage if I do it? I'm not sure I am. Am I going to have an immaterial? So if I help her and I cure her, she'll thank me for sure. Let's leave our daughter. Let's get a neighbor. You get a call from your neighbor, yo, you see the snow today, so I don't go to the doctor, the order, the waiting lists, the appointment, I don't have a phone, I can't pay the bill, let's measure my son's pressure. I can't. You have to go next door there and there. This is one mental set that the Ministry of Health thinks about, one inhuman, according to the citizens, the way. Now you see, you get all the arguments and then you get some answers that don't really have anything to do with real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58976	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic – Markovic. Dr. Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Article 31, among other things, speaks of the Minister's right to make a decision in the fields of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies, which are deficiting to allow specialisations to fill the lack of closely specialised personnel. I think that's just fine. The lack of personnel is a serious problem, and that is what we, as a parliamentary group, were talking about in principle debate. We have particularly apostrophe of the problem of lack of an anesthesiologist, which is missing about 300 and we have also cited the fact that around 2,000 unemployed doctors are currently on the labour market. It is also important to state the fact that we have explained some of the parts of this amendment, that in the last ten years, about 20% of the anesthesiologists have left the country. Also, it should be borne in mind how long the process of education of such personnel takes. In addition to an anesthesiologists, the staff of surgeons are also deficited, and in previous days we have had opportunities to see a growing number of specialists in medicine work leaving their jobs in search of better income. With this amendment, the DSS parliamentary group envisioned volunteer specialisations, which, in line with the state's capacities, would be carried out by doctors at their own expense. This would in no way burden the state, on the one hand, and would increase the education of closely specialised personnel. I don't think the argument alone fits what the intensity of the amendment was. I don't think the one who wrote the explanation understood the essence of the amendment, and I'm afraid he doesn't fully understand the essence of the problem we're facing. I will now quote what is said in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, which is that – by introducing a volunteer specialisation, not contributes to the organisation of a healthcare service, or better health protection of citizens, but only increases the number of doctors in medicine, specialists in a particular area, and which is not in line with the Strategy for the development of a sustainable health system. It is nice that someone in this development strategy will see the needs of the health system in a bureaucratic way. What happens when Germany opens a new competition for certain specialists, so a few dozen or hundreds of doctors go there? What happens when Slovenia announces a competition for closely specialized personnel, so many specialists go there? I think there's a problem with the impossible kind of volunteer specialization and that it goes to meet a vision, and thus integrate part of the private sector into the state. We were also talking about a cardio surgeon deficit. On the other hand, we've had opportunities and we've been listening to the last few years and months about the long waiting lists for cardiac surgery. Because of the lack of qualified personnel, many patients are sent to Turkey for treatment, as if there were no infrastructure facilities in our country. Unfortunately, many personnel are missing because they go in search of better profit and better status in their society. Also, I think it's important to mention one more thing, which is whether the refusal of this amendment is in accordance with Article 71. Serbia's constitution, which defines the right to education. I will now quote this provision that says – all citizens have equal access to higher education. The Republic of Serbia allows successful and talented students, etc. So, what I just said earlier, I think it's just saying that it's in favor of the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group and I urge you, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58978	Thank you. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 people... You've come forward under this amendment? Yeah. I'm sorry, I missed it, Mr. Momchilov's word after the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58979	Mr. Chairman, of course, we're going at a very fast pace and we've had enough of these members, and we're all mentally shaken by all sorts of other things that happen in Serbia, so this is also possible. It's perfectly fine to comment on our colleagues who have tabled this amendment. We're now acting in an autistic way and we don't think at all that we're part of, of a single space of global, where there's a huge fluctuation of health care. I don't want to talk about it. My colleagues explained it nicely. However, we are not all the troubles this law brings with us wanted to make amendments. I'm saying there are some funny members of the new proposed law and amendments. In that same article, you have, for example, something that is truly amazing, that a healthcare professional, or that a healthcare associate, is obliged to spend twice as long a period of time in health institutions in a network plan. You could say, well, come on, you see that they want to make a point, but in the previous attitude, everyone who gets from a specialization facility makes a contract where precise relationships are determined. Then what does this indicate? It points to two things. This does not apply to private practice, of course, only to state practice. If the state is even with the private, then it should be there as well. Of course, what's essential is that dangerous mentality in the Ministry of Health, the commanding one, who wants to control everything, sanction, and in this way the most cruel violation of the autonomous rights of the doctor. You will say, "Yes, you are only criticizing and you are radicals. That is the easiest thing anyone can do, and what would you do?" They'd say that since you wrote that earlier attitude that this is completely unnecessary and on the line is a jacked-up concept of our job. A man can say nicely in that contract – you will pay back the costs, you will set the cost of the economic cost, so it can be settled. That's it. That's it. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Novakovic, how much time do we have left as a parliamentary group, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58980	There are 16 minutes left for the MP group and 11 minutes for you. The Progressive Serbia Group, an authorised representative, has an additional 4.5 minutes and a parliamentary group of 10 minutes and 30 seconds, and the parliamentary group Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Nikola Lazic, as an authorised representative, has 14 minutes. The word has Dr. Krpic Nikola after the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58981	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are deeply aware of the fact that as members of the PUPS parliamentary group, which is part of the coalition in power, we are responsible for accepting the proposal of this Health Protection Act, as well as its purpose and application. From the field of medical education staff, which should carry medical and dental health care, it is necessary to remove all administrative obstacles placed before the faculty of health professions in the system of functioning of health care. Administrative barriers were set by preventing colleges from carrying out all three types of health care, neglecting that not only students' educations, but also specialist studies, internships and other activities are essential for the functioning of the health care of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the PUPS to help its proposals to improve visible problems, we suggest that volunteer specializations be given the same right that would be done according to the plan of the Network of the Republic Health Protection Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58982	Thank you, Mr. Snack. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr Milan Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58983	Before I comment on our amendment, I would like to comment and support this amendment by a colleague from the DSS. That amendment should have been accepted. Why? The minister is new, but he's been in medicine for a very long time. If this country is trying to solve the problem of deficit specializations, some of the anesisologists are mentioned, there are pathologists, not to talk about it, then it's not enough just to shorten the time getting specialization solved the problem. If we're also counting on the fluctuations of the personnel mentioned by the colleagues, then only the Ministry of Health and the Government need to solve the problem. Let me say one more thing, getting a specialist and a graduate specialist waiting for every young specialist's job, all waiting for us, at least four, five more years to get a little more into the quality of that specialization problem. The ministry and the government as regards deficiting professions and specialisation, in response to what has been said to create a surplus doctor, can easily define what are the deficit specializations and strategically to offer two ways of solutions. Maybe there's another way to solve it. Except for this reduction in the time of specialization, which you mentioned, give the possibility of volunteer specializations, defined precisely for branches that are deficiting. In response to where you say it should match the population number, you can do it, use European and world standards, say, an anesthesiologist number, the number of radiologists per population, so on the basis of building and saying, we will approve 12 or 25 volunteer specializations past these regular states. Although you have refused the amendment that is useful, think about it, and perhaps in some other way consider trying to give the narrow deficit branches needed by clinical centres, hospitals and in general, to resolve health in these two ways, because it takes several years for at least a few of these deficit specialists to be reduced. Find a way to solve it strategically. The amendment by which I have responded is an amendment to Article 33. In this article 33, not to read, just to say briefly for the sake of the public, a continuous education is mentioned, which means also accreditations, responsibilities, which are institutions and that continuous education must be accredited, is the essence of that member. Since it is the essence of this member relating to continuous education, we have submitted the same amendment for two reasons. For the first reason, I was saying in the introduction that we were disturbed by the term "continuous medical education". Of course, I know that my discussion is in vain, and then I said and we'll repeat it over and over in front of the SNS, that we have our own domestic expressions, and that's professional training or continuous training, any, at this point, we're talking about medicine. The main objective of the amendment is to use Serbian. I can say to myself, unfortunately, that it has entered the dictionary and medical colleges and all of those institutions that carry out professional training - a continuous medical education with abbreviations, I don't want to, but KME. It bothers me, and I think it bothers a lot of our colleagues, but it's through the law that's been passed on to the medical chambers. I repeat, it needs some things, expressions, in the spirit of our language legally to change. We put it here that above this title, where continuous education is mentioned, is "permanent professional training", with us now explaining in our views and stating what it means, or where it is being implemented. We believe that this is much clearer in our amendment, although the government said in the refusal that the issue of continued education is education relating to the Health Protection Act, or medical chambers. We know that, but since you've already put a member here, where there's a definition of continued medical education, we've responded, what have you been putting there, when it's settled by the Health Protection Act? Our remark is that our amendment repacks in a much simpler way your continued education mentioned in Article 33. The second thing, I repeat, was to use words that are suitable for our language, our native language, and again through that we appeal that in the future any expressions, whether they refer to medicine, economics, rights or any other area, not to use English, Anglo-Saxon expressions, when we have in our language the appropriate words that are understandable, not only to people who work in medicine, but also to ordinary people who have no connection with medicine. I suggest you accept this amendment, and I suggest, I repeat, that you find a way for the amendment submitted by your colleagues, which refers to volunteer specialization, if you don't accept it, at least find a way and think about helping resolve the deficit staff of various specialities in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58984	Thank you. You've wasted your time with an authorized representative. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58985	Article 34 is a member where a legal basis is given for making, restoring, or withdrawing the authorisation for independent work, or, as you say, medical associates licenses. We have explained that we are not against the licensing of health associates, but we believe that the licensing of health associates should take place as well as the licensing of healthcare professionals, i.e. as part of a professional independent regulatory body, such as health care chambers, doctors’ chambers, pharmacists, dentists, medical technicians and nurses, biochemists, etc. However, you refused to make a proposal for our amendment, where we suggested that article 34 be deleted for a number of reasons. One reason you're in the argument is that there are no special professional bodies here. But all of us who work in healthcare know that there are very strong associations, maybe they're not regulatory bodies, but there are strong associations of professional associates, there's a Association of Psychologists, an Association of Logopedes, a Association of Defecologists. We all know that those health associates who start working in healthcare from the start to the end of their professional careers, that's where they end up. These associations must be strong enough to be able to establish their own chamber, and you should have seen it with them. In this way, you have given the ministry too much authority, or the minister may decide to withdraw, license. On the other hand, health associates in this way are not protected. How are you going to solve a problem that, for example, in the Chamber can happen when there's a conflict between a healthcare professional and a patient. It's settled in court of honor. You don't have a court of honor here. You as a minister have the opportunity to take away a medical associate's license, for several reasons you listed in the proposed member of the law, but you do not have the possibility of a health associate being protected. We therefore believe that you should have accepted our amendment solution, i.e. that health associates, as well as health workers, who are very humanely performing their work within the framework of health care, should have their own professional associations, where they will have their obligations, but also the possibility of being protected during their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58986	The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58987	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 34(4). After what you wrote, we added one sentence, which reads: "on renewed, or withdrawn medical associates' licenses, the Ministry keeps records", and we felt it was necessary to add "and informs the Committee of the National Assembly at least once a year". What made us think that? In view of the fact that such a resolution committee and board members will have insight into those licences that are under review or those licences that have been withdrawn in some way. We are addressed by dissatisfied citizens, who are damaged in front of the system and cannot find a solution. It would be quite instructive for MPs who are members of the Health and Family Committee to have insight into something like this. What's scenic is your answer. I wonder who could have written these answers? We're looking for one thing in the amendment, and the answers say something completely different. You're suggesting to us that the reports are delivered to the government collectively, delivered to the ministries, and then she summed up to the Assembly, which is not true. He delivers the Resort Ministry to the Resort Committee, but that's not the theme of what we wrote. It's simple, if you can't interpret a simple amendment, we're willing to explain it to you, but there's no point in writing like this and insulting the intelligence of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58988	The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58989	In the context of this amendment change, we are instead of a licence, a conviction of accreditation, in order to change that name, but the essence of the intervention was to try to determine that the Agency could take a medical institution's license for a short period of time, because of its work or full performance. It's that sometimes you're right when you say no. This is where inspection surveillance is mentioned as one of the basics of how it can run the way for the agency to do it. When you look more thoroughly, in the exercise of external and internal control, in regular and extraordinary quality checks, you have some kind of supervisor and inspection. It's hard to find elements where it won't overlap. I'll give you a specific example. If the supervisor comes to determine whether it was right for the patient to have an intervention cardiologic non-surgical procedure, and the patient has certain publications of the surgical nature, the institution has no cardiosurgery. So, he's going to have to send inspection surveillance to determine the equipment, whenever and everything, and this supervisor appointed by the Ministry, he's going to say -- this job is legally done, it's a common and expected complication in the intervention. Now you have both circumstances. So, if you recognized the idea that we wanted to selectively protect a health care institution or private practice in the part of its operation, to deny the right to work in a self-limited range of activity or in general, that was the purpose of the amendment. It could have been, when there was good will, technically and in subsequent interventions on the committee itself, we had a representative, we did this, because it seems to me that it would contribute to some sense of health care, due to some poor will or once unsatisfactory patient who could run an emergency control chain. Someone may be paid by an institution and by an unhappiness and loss of the right to work and, finally, it involves all other costs, expansion of the rank list, etc. That was the purpose of the intervention, so if something went through maybe not precisely enough, it could've been solved. The explanation, as you gave it, is quite clear that it is a very intertwined authority and supervisory authority and supervisor, the one who controls and inspections, when a health problem arises, and it comes to the minister he employs all available mechanisms to determine where the error is, whether it is in equipment, procedures, personnel, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58990	National MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic – Markovic submitted together to the 43rd amendment. National MP Donka Banovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58991	This is where we switched to members talking about criminal provisions. A change in Article 256 has been made to a number of violations in that article, and here the proposer foresees a change in the penalty for the violation of a health care facility from 300 to millions of dinars of fines. We're increasing the upper limit to a million and 200 dinars, that's one part of the amendment. The second part refers to that, in addition to the fact that the health care in the apartments will pay a certain penalty, that 10% of that penalty is paid and the healthcare institution's manager. Why? Because these penalties usually punish the institution in all our laws, and then whoever is in charge of the institution and I don't feel that he is the answer, and for the work of the institution and for the violation is primarily the one who is the head of the institution. This is an attempt for directors, or managers of health institutions, to pay certain fines too. When the institution pays, it turns out no one cares when big fines are paid in courts. If this is how it is, even personally, responsibility in the form of punishment, then I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58992	The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word has been made by MP Dragan Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to repeat the position of the SRS which is also in principle, and also in today's debate presented by Mr. Pai Momchilov, which is that we believe there are no grounds for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, and we, for God's sake, have not heard exactly the adequate and reasoned reasons that you, as a representative of the ministry or your associates, have presented to us in order to justify such an undertaking. If you open the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, you will see what the reasons are and under what conditions the laws under emergency procedure are adopted. I accepted the fact, the radicals accepted the fact that you both sent in an emergency procedure and we saw in the law what your associates were, I suppose you weren't dealing with, wrote what the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure. Here, Mr. Minister writes, the first sentence is, "for the sake of the urgent application of the provisions of this on the subject", etc., "it is necessary to pass the law by an urgent procedure". Then you get to Article 46, which I suggested you delete, and you see that you commit yourself and your associates to bring sublaws in a year. Where's the emergency? We're not talking about this because we have a positive experience with the government that you entered a few months or a few weeks ago, it's all one thing, we know players. In 2009, this assembly passed a law that has not yet been passed by your government colleagues. What did you write in your explanation, you or your associates, it's all one thing? You say the amendment is not accepted, then it continues: "but it does not prevent the Ministry of Health from passing the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law (which the ministry will also do)." They could've put a comma on it, and they could've written it down. My moms. It's got so much weight. We're not saying something's stopping you, but there's a problem here that nothing obliges you to bring it back in less than a year. You're convincing us ministry gentlemen, from a political party that participates in power, that after the summer break you'll be dealing with laws and sublaws? Well, you've already started the campaign, who cares about this after this break. Look how far you've gone in the next law, which will be discussed later. It says here that the Republic Fund will comply with the statutes and bring sublaws by 1 January 2013. You sent this by emergency procedure to procedure? I tell you, in 2009. I'm telling you, since 2009, certain laws have been waiting for sublaws to apply. Ma'am, since you've been smiling all day, I assume you find it funny. When you weren't laughing, then you looked with disgust and listened to certain MPs, and we would really like you to treat the affairs that relate to your ministry, to your former ministers and colleagues, from cytostatics to swine flu vaccines. If you had treated individuals a little bit more rigorously and with disgust, probably in Serbia today, while you from the ministry laugh, you wouldn't be complaining about patients, you wouldn't be complaining about doctors, and you wouldn't be complaining about the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What did you put in the position of this second member regarding the next law, and it's about this subject that I'm talking about? "The adoption of the rules laid down in this article will be subject to the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this law, if they are not contrary to this law." What happens if they're the opposite? What rules will apply by 2013? I tried, Mr. Minister, to be picturesque, what you agreed to, what company to enter. But anything in this country is possible, Mr. Minister. It is possible, Mr. Minister, that the Cypriot terrorists are shooting at Serbs in northern Kosovo, that in the middle of Serbia, with the help of the NATO Pact and the EU, they are trying to establish borders and customs, and we, Mr. Minister, are in the Assembly for an urgent procedure to discuss the law that men will become women, women become men and the cost of the state. As one colleague put it a little bit earlier - scenic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58994	Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go. You've got 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58995	Madam President, Mr. Minister, when it comes to Serbia's health, I must say that Serbia's health has been destroyed and destroyed and mutilated for the last 10 years. For the last 10 years in the area of health, according to information, and I believe you have more accurate information, about 15 billion euros have been spent. Maybe I'm wrong, you may have better information, but what I've heard may not be the most accurate data. In that part, you can correct me. A number of unsuccessful experiments have been carried out in Serbia's health for the past 10 years. The result of these experiments was that a man who had not given the desired results was appointed to the head of health in the Republic of Serbia, and he was the health minister for 10 years. When you look at the member of the 53rd and the jurisdiction of the ministry and the jurisdiction of the health inspection, what I reminded you of these days, where the public expects and expects citizens, given your seriousness, your experience, that you will carry out certain, and many, changes in health care. You see, in Article 53(1), point 1: "A health institution if it does not meet the conditions, the Ministry shall adopt a solution to a temporary ban on work or a temporary ban on performing certain tasks of health care if: a health institution does not meet the conditions laid down by law regarding staff, equipment, premises and medicines". This is what I wanted to ask you again, because the citizens of Pancheva expect a lot from you – to resolve that drama and that case in Pancheva and that health inspection that you can issue a warrant, but it would be best for you to make sure on the spot, given that you were a professional and operative by your profession, it will not be difficult for you to come to Pancheva and see for yourself. As far as supplemental work is concerned, our proposal is to abolish this supplemental work and propose a law to amend, given that corruption in health is most reflected and expressed in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58996	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58997	Mr. Jojic, we agreed to go to Panchevo, we won't talk all day about a visit to Pancheva. So that's at the beginning of the deal and we're going to Pancheva. Secondly, I am taking the opportunity, since there has been a discussion here about what we are doing or whether we are doing anything in the light of the situation in Kosovo, I have to tell you that from the moment that a particular problem has arisen about what is happening in Kosovo and when these aggressions have occurred to residents, all of our resources have engaged in drug security and other medically needed enclave material in Kosovo and that these enclaves are delivered to this medical need, that we do not come into a situation as in the past time, that the oxygen bottles are waiting for one longer period at the border crossing. I assure you that these activities of the ministry are very large, comprehensive and that, given all that I said today, these activities are already taking place before they were mentioned here. I owe one notice to the citizens of this country. All these questions and all these discussions that have been given during today’s session of the Assembly have also been provided with answers and explanations that are contained and that MPs have. However, certain questions are still raised, although they are given precise and clear answers. First of all, I want to say to my colleague in Surdulica, what obliges us to keep this promise before you and what binds us here. It obliges us to make this promise and what you can do in every response to each next congregation to ask us what you did to criticize us, but don't criticize us before we fulfill our promise or it's a staunch manner, to criticise ourselves before we go into realisation. There's been a lot of criticism here about the introduction of the screening board. Gentlemen, five pages have been given to explain why the Scanning Administration is being introduced. There is also an explanation that this does not involve a new staff reception. The explanation has been given in detail. Some even characterized this argument as legal proposals on three sides, which is not true. In the end, we gave an explanation and I responded at that session that was held on Friday – why in 2013 and here it is again potential, the law has been applied since 2013. We are still at this stage, in the community with people who themselves finance screening, because in a community with institutions that will do so we are working on training staff that will work on these very complex procedures and try to reduce the number of patients with malignancies, but it is definitely done, but we will definitely take it on our own in 2013, given that we are now working with experts from the international community to train the staff who are going to do this screening. All the conventions that are here are a question of what is wrong with conventions, whether or not to respect conventions. The fact is, there's no dilemma. The convention, as you know, must be respected, internationally. However, all the conventions Serbia has ratified, and all those mentioned in these drafts of the law are ratified and adopted by the Assembly, and the conventions become automatically part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and can be directly applied to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as was done in a concrete case. A large number of discussions were on aspects of child rights and what should be introduced on that basis, what should be cast out. The Parliament delivered these materials to UNICEFU. The sighting of UNICEFaglasi – from the aspect of child rights, amendments and additions of these two laws contain the following very important changes: under one, the increase includes mandatory health care of children up to 18 years old. This article is governed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution, which guarantees the highest standard of health care for all children. This decision further strengthens the obligation to protect the rights of the child. The decision will reduce the denial of child health from 15 to 18 years of age, which due to administrative difficulties failed to provide health insurance on other grounds. This is particularly important for children from endangered population groups whose healthcare is most needed and for whom the administrative requirements for the provision of health insurance are laid down in the current law and most problematic. This decision will not burden the budget financially further. Children are covered in dental care. The right to privacy, given that this was the most common observation I've ever heard here today, the right to privacy, the insight into medical records, an existing law to a child over the age of 15, but capable of judgment, was given the right to consent to medical intervention. Encourageing adolescents from 15 to 18 years of age to include parents, families, in the process of decision-making, is an integral part of good practice, unless it is contrary to the best interests of the adolescent or is opposed to it. The amendment of the law provides for the alignment of this article with a member who speaks about the confidentiality of the data, i.e. the insight into medical documentation. Changes provide privacy and confidentiality of data, which may and must be disrupted in the event of the life threat of the adolescent or if the decision of the adolescent is contrary to his, her best interest, which leads to doubts about the ability of the adolescent himself, so parental consent, i.e. the enrolment of parents, guardians, is certainly necessary. This member is very important for achieving the health care of adolescents in the domain of the reproductive and mental health of adolescents and solves the current doubts relating to the spying of adolescents. At the same time, the role of health care professionals in encouraging the relations of adolescents and parents based on mutual trust and support with a dose of privacy that is not contrary to the best interests of the child and the care of his health. Four, children are given the right to participate in medical examinations if they are of direct benefit to the child, with the mandatory consent of parents or guardians. It's the sighting of UNICEFA contained in these amendments to the laws that you've had. When it comes to, since we have received a complaint, the amendment to Article 16, the final position, the Government has rejected this amendment. However, the Health Committee of the Serbian Parliament adopted it and it is a matter of agreement, i.e. voting in parliament. The way he votes, that's what we're gonna do. In legal regulations when it comes to unity and plural, it is a little difficult for me as a man who comes from one space to talk about grammar and the use of unity and plural, given that I am from the vicinity of Vranj, i.e. from one village next to Vlad's Han, you all know that in the legal regulations of the noun they are placed in unity. That's why it's only the Autonomous Province Act, so it's not health institutions, it's a health institution. Not to get into the details anymore, I think you understand that and that's why no one abolishs the autonomous province, but that's the basis on which the laws are written. Article 7. The bill refers to an appointment and does not refer to the waiting list. Someone has to make a difference what an appointment is, and what a waiting list is. They are the result of a lack of funds and they are known to all countries, including the most developed. You have them in England, Italy, take a look. As long as we don't have enough funds, there'll be a waiting list. We'd be the happiest if they weren't here. However, enforcement measures that were lifted a year ago will be introduced, and this will be the basis for controlling waiting lists and supplemental work. Next thing you know, it's volunteer specialization. They do not constitute a violation of the constitutional right to the attainment of education. This principle can be activated, in fact volunteer specializations are additional professional training and they are carried out in all developed countries, such as the EU, America, etc. So when we talk about volunteer specializations, there are certain solutions that are unacceptable to this kind of specialization. We had this opportunity in the previous period, as you yourself know, and you know how it all went in our midst, how it all manifested and how much good it was from these volunteer specializations. We will allow these changes to allow one number of people to move on these prematurely or not to wait for that time of two years to start specializing, but we will also have one analysis of what these specializations are, how many people they need and when they need to start specializing. When it comes to the strategy for bilateral care, it was adopted in 2009 and 476 healthcare workers have been educated so far. She is educated in 88 homes in the home care service performed by doctors. Psychologists, psychiatrists, Red Cross volunteers, priests, if the patient wants to, make up a doctor and nurse. In 27 hospitals 300 beds have been defined in Serbia, called the Palitarian Care Units, and these are our signatures. The normative is European for the number of beds. City Hall of Gerontology and Paliatical Care, visit to the house of patients who are without family and who are single households, they don't have beds, it's just home treatment. For the adjustment of units in hospitals, the Serbian government has allocated 600,000 euros now spent for these purposes. The national co-ordinator in the IPA project, the development of the Paliatical Care that has been mentioned here in one context, is exactly the doctor, as you say, from the Belhospis, who is a partner of the Ministry of Health in the project. So what we're saying is that we don't have joint activities, that doctor is working with us on these projects. I don't want to go into any more details. I hope we've answered most of those questions. We didn't go into any details, since we think this is enough to understand and understand everything that was needed to be answered. Thank you for your cooperation in this first part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58998	National MP Dragan Stevanovic is registered in the electronic system. You want a replica? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u58999	Mr. Stankovic, here's the thing about this, since you've only spoken to me personally, I guess, because we're countrymen, I'm glad for that, of course, but you've said something where our manners are critical. Our obligation here is to make criticism, without good criticism, we assume we need to make a meaningful law. Here are the manners of the promises of some others, i.e. the promises of some others, and as Serbia and all of us in the Assembly are going through with their promises and respect for those promises made to citizens by actions, so we know that too. As for the promise, when we get out, you can promise me that you'll come to southern Serbia in your neighborhood and my Surdulic, and you can go around that misery, and you can see what the health situation is like down there and help if you really want to. Do not promise to enforce the law, the laws are implemented because you write clear and precise norms. So the normative part of the text of the law must be of quality, it's a guarantee to us that you will implement it. And that you're ready to make a narrative promise to us why you weren't prepared to build into the law. Why didn't you write in the law that in two months you'd be bringing in legal acts? What was the problem if you're so sure about applying and writing those under the law. You were not sure, and we have the right to doubt, and our obligation to criticism is born out of these doubts, and we criticise you for it, and the criticism was in place. Therefore, there are no promises but clear norms that are a guarantee of the implementation and implementation of laws and the adoption under legal acts that will provide adequate health care in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59000	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59001	No, I thought that we who are from one end could trust each other and that before we see how they work, they kind of bound the word. I said, so that word I gave or the people who gave it is subject to criticism for a period of time when this isn't done what you're talking about. So, as I trust you, and you don't trust me, it's a matter of personal sensitivity, of relationships with people, etc. Anyway, I had some conversation the other day and I took the pass as very serious, and I think that's where our cooperation will follow. Now that someone's always got some doubts about something that someone isn't ready to do, that's the thing I wouldn't talk about, but we're going to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59002	People's MP, Pai Momchilov, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59003	Mr. Minister, you see, you've now given us answers that are, though, I think we're too late, and we couldn't at the same time that we were delivering our objections to you to return to us. Some things are absolutely not what you said. You're saying I said it was like you're bringing three pages of management, you've got three members. Instead of one, you now three members, a, b, v, and also some other little things. You're telling me we're criticizing the waiting lists. No, we're just instructions as an illustration which brings this god-awful good intensity not to wait, to save patients time. Don't save yourself that way if you're just making an appointment. We just listed this as an illustration of something waiting for them. Therefore, we absolutely respect what you said and welcome that you have hired the Ministry of Health funds to help our citizens at KIM. Now we know there's an emergency. We are seriously concerned and welcome these activities of yours and demand that they be greater if necessary, expecting that the state will also do so with all its potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59004	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I set a break, as the end of today's afternoon session, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18.00 hours today and until the end of the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda, i.e. the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, and that is the point where we will begin work in the afternoon at 15.15 hours. I thank the minister and the participants of the session and we continue our work at 3:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Before opening a search in particular, that is to say, a debate on amendments to the Amendments Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, a brief reminder of the time available to both the presidents or the authorised representatives, as well as the parliamentary groups. The mandated representatives of the United Pensioners' Party of Serbia have all the time available, the Manjina parliamentary group also, New Serbia, the LDP also at the disposal of all time for the authorised representative, as well as the SPS-JS, the mandated representative of the DSS Group has 10 minutes and 30 seconds, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia took advantage of his time, the authorised representative of the United Regions of Serbia has all the time available, the authorised representative of the SRS 11 minutes available, and the MP group of nine minutes and 30 seconds, while the ZES parliamentary group has all the time available for the authorised representative and 91 minutes for the parliamentary group, the United Regions of Serbia has all the time available, the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia has used its time, the DSS Group has also used its time, the parliamentary group of MPs and 30 seconds, while using the entire DSS. The SPS-JS parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the Manjina parliamentary group, as well as the PUPS parliamentary group, are at their disposal all the time. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovan Radovanović, Paja Momčov, Filip Stojanović, Arpad Fremond, Laslo Varga, Balint Parstor, Elvira Ković, Nikola Lazić, Donka Banović, Mila Banović, Milašavić, Milašavić, Milašavić, Milašavić, Mirjavić, Milić, Mirović, Mirović, Miljavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to search the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59006	Ladies and gentlemen, here's one really like this. What did we point to? We don't think there's any need to change the term so far marked by the Health Protection Institute for the insurance of a new term fund. We are now insisting on regulations that require us to use Serbian words. Here I have six copies of the Serbian language dictionary "Mother of Serbian", not to go any further, the Academy of Science, where they clearly say that the fund is the amount of money intended for certain purposes, and where the institution is a certain social institution. The answer is said to me, so it is said in our alleged Constitution in Article 68 of Health Insurance, Health Care and the establishment of health funds is governed by law. Of course, when the Constitution says that it means the plurality of funds, public, social and private. That's quite clear. It's amazing that you give these reasons and answers. Serve yourself, make up, and even worse was with that law, the original act, when you introduced a completely unnecessary Institute of Public Health instead of that good old term, people's health. You didn't listen to the profession, the science, anyone, and that's how you did it. What I want to say is about the next member. If you had accepted this, we would have saved you, because these changes require you to intervene over 50 members and change them, and then they clearly tell you and tell you the proposition that you have to pass a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59007	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 3rd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59008	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, respected fellows, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, says in an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why it proposes the definition of insurance farmers in compulsory health insurance, which is not in line with the established definition in the second mandatory social security system. What's important to us, Mr. Minister, is that we're just opposed to going from the PIO Act and doing the same to passing the solutions to the Health Insurance Act. That's why we want you to accept our amendment. The tax administration and the Fund, if the law is now adopted in this form, the Tax Administration and the Fund will, by official duty, ask each agricultural producer to pay both PIO and health insurance, PIO is 42. 818,00 dinars, while one citizen's health insurance amounts to about 25,000.00 dinars. What's the current situation? I've calculated how a farm owner lives. If one agricultural owner has three members and owns two hectares, he now has a income of about 300,000 dinars. If he's sold now, for example, wheat, it's a hundred thousand dinars of expenditure. So we can calculate that there's about 200,000 dinars left. By the person in that family, that's 70,000. If we divide that into a year, it's only 6,000 dinars for a simple agricultural producer. If we look at the fact that a farmer has to allocate 3,500 dinars per month for pension-inhabited insurance, and for health insurance of about 2,000 dinars, then he only has about 500 dinars left, which I'm sure, and you probably agree that it's an extremely small sum. In this form, we cannot accept the bill, because we believe that small agricultural holdings will lead to bankruptcy. This is an impossible mission. We think you should accept our amendment after all. What is extremely important to us, the first amendment we have submitted, through that amendment, we wanted only one member of the agricultural organisation to pay for health insurance. The second is that a child who is 15 years old is not required to pay pension and health insurance. The third thing was that at least everyone in the agricultural land has more than half a hectare of land, so not family in total, but each one in particular. What is important to us, I simply want to underline that we SVM MPs believe that this is an impossible mission and members of small agricultural holdings have nothing to pay out of so much money on an annual basis. Unfortunately, we haven't come to an agreement. So we didn't have a deal, and that's why we handed over the amendment, and that's why we're asking that correction to pull this Article 3 and everything to stay the way it was. What is important is that you, Mr. Minister, would now, by accepting this amendment of ours, allow us to change together the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Agricultural Producers. Of course, it is not only you, Mr. Minister, who is responsible, but also Mr. Ljajic, Mr. Krkobic, there is Mr. Cvetkovic, as well as Mr. Petrovic, and we all need to sit together, see and resolve the pension and disability insurance of agricultural producers and health insurance of agricultural producers afterwards. Please, Mr. Minister, once again accept this amendment for these reasons and ask you to help our farmers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59009	Two minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59010	Members of the SRS fully accept the argument of a colleague who has been presented and we fully support their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59011	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59012	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've moved on to another law, and that's the Health Insurance Act. To Article 6. The DSS has submitted a new amendment and we are introducing a new position. Before I say what that attitude is, let me just explain what it's all about. Here, in Article 22 of the Old Law, it says who the insurance companies are, or what group of the population is owned by insurance companies. We've made an amendment regarding a group called women. Given what my party has been saying for a long time, that Serbia's demographic reconstruction must be launched and there must be one really large and broad social consensus, we have submitted an amendment on this. In fact, we introduced a new position on 2nd, which is – persons related to family planning, diagnostics and treatment of sterility, as well as women during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood up to 12 months after birth. And this is what we've done to change the order of views, so the position 3 that you've given has become item 4. We have indeed done very seriously as a party a very serious programme of demographic reconstruction of Serbia. You've already noticed that whenever it comes to this subject, we have amendments about it. We have to go from a few facts, which is that 30 000 people in Serbia have fewer every year, that Serbia has recorded a negative natural growth on this basis since 1992 and that in the last 18 years, we have lost around 377 thousand citizens. It is also the fact that Serbia belongs to the oldest people in Europe, that a 0.81 child is born after a married couple in Serbia, to carry out around 200,000 abortions annually. We think that really our amendment, which has been made about it, should be adopted. Otherwise, I really can't understand it then for women's populations, for women's equality in all fields, I can't understand your stories about you standing up for children, for family and family values, and especially for the white plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59013	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Judita Popovic and Marija Bulgarčić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Vice-President Popovic and Marija Bulgarčić. First, Vice President Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59014	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments that we two members of the LDP have submitted have not been adopted by the government. From the reasons why this has not been done, this solution offered in the amendment does not meet the standards of the UN World Health Organization. This explanation is not clear, first of all, whether the limits of the World Health Organization are too low or too high for this solution that we have proposed with the amendment. In fact, the LDP amendment proposes to leave the legal solution to this issue, among other things, the recommendation, or the obligation to consider injury on arrival, or return from work, an injury to work. Unfortunately, Article 10 of the proposed amendments and additions to the law stipulates that these injuries are not considered work-related injuries on arrival and departure from work. I should particularly like to point out that there is, among other things, an improvement in certain health insurance rights, which is a good solution. However, you are clearly narrowing down and reducing the rights of workers, therefore, of persons employed. Why is it bad for the economy, by citizens, by society, I could explain it to you in a higher way, but I would draw your attention to the fact that we have a very large percentage of unemployed persons, which is over 20%, that we have a very low average monthly income that is among the lowest in the region, only Macedonia has a lower average profit than Serbia, that we currently have almost a million unemployed people, which is really drastic on this economy that needs to carry both transition and development and actually finance health insurance. So we narrow down the rights of those who should actually create a new value, so those of whom growth depends and J-D-P depend, and we cannot expect the growth of gross social product, nor can we expect to create new values if these people's rights are marginalized in this way. I would remind you, however, that the market economy, among other things, assumes the free flow of goods and services and labour. Serbia is known as a highly centralised state, and capital concentration has somehow been implemented in such a way that the largest cities and the largest cities in Serbia are the ones with sufficient resources and enough capital to finance the economy as well. What does that mean? It means that if you want to get a job, you have to go someplace bigger in Serbia, and often you can't solve your existence by moving to a bigger place, but by traveling to that place of yours. If you want to travel to the workplace, it is normally printed with certain problems and risks, and these risks are predicted, among other things, to cause certain injuries. If certain injuries occur, this new legal solution will not be categorized as a workplace injury, thus endangering the right of those employees. What does that mean? This means, again, that people who are employed even for a minimumer or for a very low profit do not have very good working conditions, because they are mostly employed in the private sector, and with us privatisation is largely completed, and in fact the most work is offered by the private sector, and in this public sector is not particularly prominent with high profits. The bottom line is that those who hire privates are in a far worse situation as far as finance is concerned. Thus, this poor financial situation can be further complicated and made more difficult if any injury occurs on arrival, or departure from work. So, instead of further improving our relationship with those people who work, who pay taxes, which are full of budgets, and thus finance and health insurance, we deny them these rights by one segment of their rights, which stem from their labour rights, minimize, marginalise, in this case, and remove. I really don't see what reasons it was that the legislator decided to put this solution in the legal proposal, because from the reasons for the rejection of the amendment it was not possible to understand what intention it was. I say, it is not really an adequate explanation that the government is calling for WTO standards, because the laws in Serbia are written and passed for the benefit of citizens living in Serbia, and of course these laws must meet certain world and European standards in a positive way. The World Health Organization is not that opinion, nor can it be read and found out anywhere, that it is a work injury, how it was done in Serbia, and if the injury occurs during the arrival, or return from work, something that is falling away and which is negative in relation to the world's accepted standards. So nowhere does it say that it is a bad standard, it does not say that Serbia cannot, in accordance with its own policy and according to the needs of its citizens, continue to exist in its regulations, in its legislation. So we can't rely on some standards if we are valid standards, which are relevant, which are quality, which are positive for our citizens, for our employees, we are jeopardizing. This solution from Article 10 and how it threatens the rights of citizens, because it is also important for that employee to be somehow protected when he leaves, or when he returns from work. We cannot accept that a global standard is being threatened in this way, that in this way the economy is being threatened, that the existence of health insurance is being threatened, because if we are in a good way promoting health insurance, by expanding those who will have certain benefits and by increasing the positions that will represent development for the use of these benefits of health insurance, I do not see why this right is abolished by a part of the society that should be the bearer of the development of that society, and these are the employees of whose work, in fact, depends on the survival and further development of Serbia and the filling of the budget, in the end. Therefore, there is no excuse to delete this right from the existing Law on Health Insurance of Passion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59015	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Mary the Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59016	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when the debate was in principle in this law, we said a lot and we even said that this was a positive shift when it comes to amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. We also commended the extension of rights both to dental services and to the extension of rights to victims of domestic violence, victims of human trafficking. These are certainly positive shifts in this law. What we said back then, I said that I would explain when the debate is under amendments, first of all I would like to express my regret why the LDP amendment was not accepted, it is an amendment to Article 10. We, first of all, wanted to point out with this amendment that both going and going back to work are an integral part of the process of work. With this amendment, we wanted professional illnesses to be out of the question, in the sense of Article 4 of this Law. That's what we wanted to say with this amendment. That member is not intended to be injured by work within the meaning of Article 4, including injuries when leaving and arriving at work. The proposed solution is not in the spirit of improving the exercise of certain mandatory insurance rights, i.e. this does not apply to the extended rights that we have mentioned so many times in our debate. The arrival and return to work are certainly components of the work process and are certainly related to the obligations and rights arising from the status of the employee. So we think you should have had a little more hearing and adopted the LDP amendment. The explanation you gave us, which says that our amendment is contrary to the definition adopted by the World Health Organization, we believe it is simply not true, because the World Health Organization is no closed organisation, but all UN member states are members of the World Health Organization. Finally, it does not say in the reasoning of the law that we are doing these changes and supplements because of the World Health Organization, but rather because of the citizens of Serbia, we are doing these amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59017	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59018	Thank you. This article is about insured persons and certain measures being implemented to preserve, improve health, prevent and combat early detection of diseases, etc., and here we have a number of measures. That's what the proposal says. However, what we do not like is that some of the measures you are talking about, such as health education, are conducted by organising special lectures, etc., i.e. you recognize the importance of health education. However, it was left like this, i.e. it was generally expressed. We add the word "mandatory", I speak of the first position, means "the compulsory health education that is conducted in co-operation with the ministry responsible for education and education activities by organising special lectures" etc. So that's where our intervention is. You answer to me that through this law you cannot interfere in the affairs of the Ministry of Education and Education. I disagree with you, because you are a ministry that has an obligation to take care of the health of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here you're talking about very serious screening programs, etc., so you can notice those diseases and point out to the Ministry of Education that it's compulsory health education, but not in terms of introducing a special subject. And today there's an object called an electoral health education. You even have in the programs of the departmental community entire blocks that are scheduled for health education, some schools, yes, some don't, and those who do so work very well with health institutions in their cities and realize these programs. However, this should not be left at will, for example, to a school principal or a class elder. But if by law you say it's mandatory, then you'll find a model and a way to really reach the youngest of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59019	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about 14 hours today we had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Minister that the conventions that the Republic of Serbia ratified must be respected. We have also seen that view in Article 6, where the right to health care is recognised by persons, i.e. children up to 18 years of age. However, when the SRS Parliament Club submits an amendment to Article 12, where we have proposed that the right to escort be extended to children up to 18 years of age, then we get the answer that conventions can be observed in a partial manner. So it was enough to admit that under the child it was considered a person until the age of 18, and the rest would be arranged according to the possibilities of the country. Also, in the light of why this amendment is not accepted, it says that children aged 15 to 18 who live in health institutions during treatment have complete health care and care by healthcare professionals. It is also a privilege for health care professionals, especially those who treat and care for children. But the problems that occur in practice say that in some cases it is still necessary for the companion to remain after the 15th year of a child's life, not to mention a person with a loss of individual physical or mental functions, including blind, weak eyes and deaf faces. Let the children heal for a long time. I have to mention the boy who's been being treated for leukemia at the Institute since 2001 and who turned 15 this year. The problems parents have faced are truly terrible. I will say more about this about the next amendment to Article 14, as the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of two minutes for the interpretation of the amendment expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59021	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59022	I suggested that you be in Article 13. The bill of law also states that "Article 41, point 1, states: "The examination and treatment of the diseases of the mouth and teeth in children and young people up to the age of 30, older persons who are severely or mentally disturbed in development, as well as persons with severe congenital or acquired deformities of the face and jaw, including facial and jaw prosthetic compensation and fixed orthodonal apparatus". Treatment of mouths and teeth for those categories must be provided in the medical-policlinic stationary conditions. This amendment extends the right to provide dental treatment to the life of up to 30 years. I was already talking in principle about the recent adoption of the Law on Youths from 15 to 30 years of age. On this occasion, we from the SRS said that the text of the law must be incorporated into the part that is binding on health care for that age. So we have a law on young people who don't commit to anyone. It does not oblige the Ministry of Health to provide health care to young people up to the age of 30, in this case dentally, whether or not they are health insurance bonds. In the case of the Young People's Law, all the senseless adoption of laws that do not apply in practice is seen, but are adopted for formal reasons, in order to fill in the number of pro-European laws necessary to show your friends in Brussels. This amendment also provides a legal basis to ensure the prosthetic and orthodonic care of the person with acquired and innate deformities of the face and jaws for that age. These deformities, when they're innate, and in that I mean the cleavages of the list and mouth within some syndromes, are very difficult, not only in functional but also in aesthetic and psychological terms, and require long-term treatment and rehabilitation of those persons. This especially applies to orthodonal patients who need a fixed orthodonic apparatus to complete their treatment. Under the current law, such persons, if they are older than 18 and are not in further education until the age of 26, and we have such cases, do not have the right to this type of treatment that is covered by the mandatory form of health insurance. Obtained deformities occur as a result of extensive jaw resections due to injury or tumorous processes, mostly malignant, and are increasingly occurring in younger people, in the younger age of life. They must deal with prosthetic compensations that will be financed from the Health Insurance Fund. Such patients do not have much and do not need much more resources, as you stated in the explanation for not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59023	National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59024	The rights of the previous legal solution have been significantly reduced and it is good that today the ministry has finally heard of this area, which served in the previous period as experimental in not very successful health reform. It should be said that the health ministry with this bill has indeed done a lot for humanisation and the development of dental protection in Serbia. It should also be said that there are many other gaps in dentistry, and primarily the distribution of services by level, so it has introduced general interference in both health institutions and among inspection services. Because there is no such division for dentistry in any European comparative legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59025	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. People's MP Milet Poscurica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59026	Thank you. Of course, once again, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to call on the minister to consider whether the injuries involved include persons who have been travelling to work, or from work, that we do not spoil 50 years of long tradition and that we do not resort to what the World Health Organization has prescribed. If we do so, we will not be bombed, brought into sanctions, or punished, we will only help our people and avoid the impression that we may have been under the fact of some tycoon offering working relations under other circumstances. So, just to get pregnant, you're losing your job. You know what I'm talking about. With regard to this amendment, we simply wanted to extend the competences of the dental service to protect the citizens of Serbia. She was excommunicated, she was yen in heaven or on earth. There was a bad legal solution, which we had before, and now something is being fixed. Once again, the dentist is the chosen doctor for most of the population. Well, we wanted some of that jurisdiction, those insurance rights to be extended by amendment. You have not adopted, but if anything has been positively done in this law, this shift that has been made is, for example, positive about dentistry, although I am wasting my time on citizens who call and are interested in the Banjski spa of Zlatar Rehabilitation Centre, the question of their status is unclear and how far the ministry's commission has arrived in assessing their status, since you are in the mood to make comments and statements, answers. Members of Parliament, although it's not the right time, the people who are looking at it don't know our time limits, when we can ask questions, make an effort, so tell us something about it during the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59027	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59028	Thank you. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group welcomed the possibility of treating teeth and mouths for the student population in this bill. Also during the principle debate, our parliamentary group pointed to one fact that dentistry is in a non-critical way, practically almost completely shut down in the state sector, except for some prevention and urgent dentistry. During the principle debate, we also pointed out the problem of non-functioning of the dental chamber and therefore significantly reduced inability to hear the power of the profession in this regard. We believe that we need a sustainable and realistic concept of dental protection, otherwise in the long term I think that the state of our nation's mouth and teeth will be catastrophic. With this amendment, the DSS parliamentary group proposed that voluntary blood donors who did so more than ten times be provided with treatment of mouth and teeth. I think the explanation cited for the refusal of this amendment is inappropriate. It shows that whoever wrote the answers or completely missed the subject spoken of, not reading the above reasons in the proposed amendment, or in one malicious way interpreting the amendment with who knows what purpose. The answer is – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment proposed introduces a voluntary blood donation system, which is contrary to standards and the EU directive, which represents the principle of unrewarded voluntary blood donation. I don't think whoever wrote this has realized that this directive, which is being called upon, is talking about preventing corruption and trafficking in blood, and it's not about the very benefits that the state can somehow provide for blood donors. The question is, who's even saying it's necessary to pay these people blood donations? I think it's an insult to them too, because none of these people do it out of material initiatives, but solely for human reasons and for the reasons of solidarity. What the DSS parliamentary group predicted was that people who are more than ten times blood donors should be provided with treatment of mouth and teeth precisely for the reason that blood donors must be in good health. We are all aware that if you leave your mouth and teeth, it can lead to serious health complications throughout the body. We also believe that by providing treatment for the mouth and teeth for voluntary blood donors, the state demonstrates its relationship to voluntary blood donation in general, because if it were to be considered a sort of compensation, how would we interpret the fact that voluntary blood donors are free from paying for the participation for health services? This release from participation is the case in both Croatia and BiH, etc. How would we interpret that, for example, the event "The Night of the Museum" gave 30 tickets as a symbolic gift to voluntary blood donors? I'll remind you of the fact that in Serbia it is necessary that 350 people give blood every day. The question is also asked what is called when citizens are forced to give blood to their family member. By the way, speaking of blood trafficking, etc., I think this government has led citizens into such a difficult, unexposed situation, that the level of frustration is very high, so we are increasingly witnessing that people are really reaching out for some desperate moves, such as trying to sell organs through advertising in the media. So I urge the minister to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59029	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59030	The amendment to Article 14 is the same as Article 12, which now refers to medical rehabilitation in case of illness and injury. So, the child's companion admits up to 15 years of age, and we've suggested that it be up to 18 years, as well as in the previous article 12, which refers to the companion during the examination and treatment in case of illness and injury. I'll finish what I started, since it's about the same essence. Detachment from parents to children who are healthy is no problem at all. On the contrary, it is good for them. For children who have long been treated most of the treatment in the hospital, separation is a separation fear and stress for which the neuropsychiatist Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic says is one of the most difficult forms of stress in children. It's hard to mention specific cases, but I was just talking about a kid who's been being treated at the institute since 2001, since he was five years old. At the beginning of this year, the child was 15 years old in the hospital and his condition had really deteriorated so much that the analyses showed a terrible increase in blood sugar and increased blood pressure. By accepting this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 12 that the SRS has suffered, these consequences which are also harmful to the health of children, at least in these serious diseases, would be a little reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59031	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59032	Statistics suggest that in Serbia 30% of birth rates are below the one that is acceptable to restore the population. That's the exact data. If we know that and we know that we're facing the white plague at this point, then it's really just unknowable that for a long time, for months in this country's law, there's not something that's priority all the time, and that's fighting that white plague. How is it possible only in some special category of healthcare, with only 65% being diagnostics and treatment of sterility? It's for our country and for our conditions absolutely unacceptable. We took this opportunity to use this amendment, using the fact that the bill promoter intervened in Article 16. that we here further intervene and relocate that category from the last group, from 65% insurance to 100% insurance to the first group, because this is leading to certain repercusions in the fund itself and the way in which the rights of their acts and the ways in which these problems will later be treated, including what arises from that, and these are possible artificial fertilisations or other ways of extending species. This is what is very important to us, and that is why we have submitted this amendment. We'd like you to have an understanding of that, as you've had the understanding of getting into health insurance and the necessary change in gender, so I guess you can put in this kind of thing that's important for the survival of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59033	The 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who wants a word. I'm sorry, Vladimir Milentievich, by the way? First Mr. Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59034	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the amendment that caused the most controversy on the Health Committee by discussing amendments. I must admit that colleagues from DS, G17, PUPS and SPS have turned out to be correct and voted in favour of this amendment that we have proposed because, in essence, this amendment is one human need to respect the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I must express in that sense a surprise that you, as a humanist, simply do not exercise your right to accept this amendment. I think that if there is one kind of agreement in the Health Committee that this amendment is very necessary at this point, I see no reason not to accept it either. I don't think it's an appropriate excuse to wait for the day to vote. What specifically prompted us to submit this amendment? The great scandal, Mr. Minister, that 200 children who have been treated for years at the Institute of Pathology have been ruled by Mr. Aleksandr Vuksanovic, director of the RZO, lost their means of treatment and essentially after 20 years this Institute of Pathology will not be financed by the RZO, or it's some whim, I don't know how to explain it, Mr. Vuksanovic. In order to be completely concrete and for viewers and all in the hall to understand what this is about, the RZZO has two billion euros in budgets. The financing of this institute where 200 children who have symptoms of autism and speech disorders are treated is 0.001% of that pool of two billion euros. If it's not a humanitarian need, if it's not a child's concern, I don't know what else to say. There is simply no excuse for Mr Vuksanovic's actions. Again, I urge you to show some kind of humanity. I'm going to give you a few more examples that show that simple things can come to you with demonstrations outside the Health Insurance Office, where your parents, children will come to you and you will have a scandal of unprecedented proportions that will certainly not remain within the framework of the Republic of Serbia. As long as there's such arrogant behavior, I'm going to give you a concrete example and that's something we've heard from these children's parents. Three times, in January, February and March, parents asked for Mr Vuksanovic's reception precisely because of this problem, and he did not find the time, nor did he answer them in writing. I think you'll agree that this is a kind of scandal, an unheard act, and this is the right time to show one good will and to adopt this amendment that just shows that the state needs to finance and treat private institutions because once a month or once in 15 days is not enough for that kind of problem. To be absolutely concrete, conscious or unconscious, I hope unconsciously, if this amendment is not adopted, it will happen that somewhere around 200 children will lose their chance to break out of the claws of autism, precisely because of one boast, and you can't say there isn't enough funding because yet, you will admit, two billion euros is a huge sum, not for the Republic of Serbia, but for a much larger country. So I say again, I urge you to show a kind of professionalism, humanity, as colleagues from the Health Committee have shown. Otherwise, it will turn out that the Health Committee is an institution that has no influence at all and that is, you will admit, strange if the amendment has been adopted on the Health Committee. So it's a problem that can escalate and appeal to you again to show a kind of responsibility and a kind of humanity in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59035	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59036	Madam President, the President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by Rule 71, to quote, where it is said that the chairman of the Committee is required to convene a committee session at least one third of the total number of board members or at the request of the National Assembly president. An hour ago, I came from KIM territory where I spent with citizens the last two nights and yesterday. The situation in KIM is very alarming and is escalating from moment to time. Believe it or not, the Serbs at KIM are at war, regardless of what nobody wants war, they don't want either the Republic of Serbia, but we have to call on reason. It is incomprehensible that yesterday's Serbian day at KIM opened fire where armed conflict occurred. It is an incredible relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the authorities to yesterday's event, at least when it comes to reaction, and it is unacceptable that neither the chairman of the KIM Committee and the members of the board, who have the right to this Rules of Procedure, call on even though the KIM Committee to discuss the difficult situation at KIM, if it is not already allowed in the National Assembly. Madam President, please interrupt this session immediately. If not, to schedule a session of the National Assembly where we will discuss and draw some common conclusions on the subject, and Serbs have combined 99% taken a stand not to accept the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo, at least to invite the heads of parliament to agree before you go on vacation, which you are in a hurry to do something to keep us out of your dog teeth. Otherwise, only if that is not possible, please all MP groups who do not accept such an appeal to at least leave today's work in support, so let's keep working tomorrow, at least we know what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59037	Mr. MP, you have referred to the Rules of Procedure's terms of procedure and committees and sessions. It is necessary that one-third of the committee MPs submit an initiative to the president of parliament, and then they can convene a session of the committee, on the one hand. On the other hand, during an extraordinary session of at least 84 Members or Government may propose a agenda. So these are our business opportunities at our disposal. This means that I will practically respect the Rules of Procedure and all acts which oblige us to work properly. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59038	If you'll excuse me, I'm formally reporting under Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I simply don't have the option to state the position of the SRS on one issue that is important for the Republic of Serbia in general and for all its citizens and, hopefully, for all political parties. It's extremely unreasonable, that's what we wanted to say yesterday to Mrs. Komic, but she didn't want to accept our argument, that we act like a man suffering from autism, to talk about amendments to the Health Insurance Act in a situation where the shearers, here, are trying to occupy Kosovo Mitrovica right now. According to SRS information, KFOR helicopters are always overrun by the territory of Kosovo Mitrovica and the entire northern Kosovo area in general. It's possible that the conflicts will escalate. It is obvious that the sharps enjoy NATO's support of the pact. Yesterday, it's after all, and the news published by all the media, the KFOR helicopters are the so-called. special units of Kosovo police brought to the administrative crossings of Jarinje and Brnjak. So what you can do is, it's to interrupt this session, call a meeting of the heads of parliament, or deputy head of the parliamentary groups, and see how we get out of this whole situation. Even if all MPs of the SRS and the DSS signed an initiative to schedule an emergency session, that still isn't enough to get to magic number 84. The situation in KIM is such that we need to be above the regulations of the Rules of Procedure. So, the situation is urgent. After all, it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure. So now we have to act like we're in an emergency situation. I appeal to the common sense of the leadership of the National Assembly. Call a meeting of the heads of parliament and see how we get out of this whole situation. As far as our parliamentary groups are concerned, we submitted yesterday to the Serbian government about the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the NATO Pact, and today we have submitted a second interpretation concerning the government's relationship with KIM, but according to the Constitution, it is 30 days. We can't wait for that deadline. So our proposal is constructive. Stop this session. All this can wait, but the situation is such that it has to be solved quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59039	I have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which means I have delivered it to the committee responsible, which will appreciate the validity of the interpretation content. As soon as the board informs me of this, I will provide the impelation to the Prime Minister, who is obliged to respond within a month. So these are some deadlines and some rules. We can't bring in any chaos or anarchy. We have to respect the act. If there are no 84 MPs at this point for your idea, it means that most people think that the state is doing everything it can in the ways that are available to it. We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59040	President, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, thinking that you, as chairman of today's assembly, are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think you're doing this in a bad way, but I do have an understanding for you, but in article 106, he says MPs can only talk about a subject that's on the agenda. I do not take for granted Mr. Martinovic, whom I value, whose exposure I have heard in terms of his concern for the Serbs in Kosovo. But yesterday and today, MPs of the SRS and the DSS presented that only they cared about Serbs in Kosovo. Today, by abuse of a pay phone, bringing even unrest among the population, saying words such as Serbs in Kosovo are at war, announcing news that has not been completely checked out, and bringing them out as verified, as has yesterday been shown from the words spoken here. Do not think that MPs on this side, or MPs of the ruling majority, do not think of Serbs in Kosovo and KIM as Serbian territory, or the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that they are less concerned. There are representatives of the Serbian state. Yesterday there were people who were supposed to be and were trying to calm down the situation so as not to have unwanted consequences, and so that Serbs would not have to leave their centuries-old hearths again. In that sense, I believe that this really is the use of a pay phone beyond the right given by the Rules of Procedure. Please don't let the president do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59041	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd just like to tell you that if you estimate any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we can make a statement in the voting day. I think the moment is such that initiatives need to find a form in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and other acts. If they're not there, we can't be mad at anyone. No one here has a smaller or greater degree of concern and responsibility, and we must never share that question. It's quite clear, I agree with you that we have the exact same degree of concern. Demonstrating concerns about this issue is abuse, indeed politics in some daily need which and how the people most concerned are, the situation that is now current at KIM. Mr Aligrudic and Mr Martinovic also advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. First Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59042	Madam President, here's my risk of being punished. Of course, I do not want to enter the daily-political controversy with you or with the distinguished Mr. Veselinović. As far as his grades are concerned, I was saying something that, just as he says, isn't true or not standing. This is Mr. Veselinovic's official news to Tanjug. I guess you believe the saucer. You don't have to trust me. So the news today is 14.00 and 14.30 p.m., respectively. Serbs from Zubi Potok blocked around 14.30m highway Kosovo Mitrovica-Ribaric, as well as the nearest local road leading to the Brnjak administrative checkpoint. The roads are blocked by balvanas that completely prevent the passage of the vehicle from Mitrovica to Brnjak. As Tanjug's reporter reports, KFOR helicopters are intensely overrun. Earlier in the Zubi stream, about 14 hours later, the sirens heard about the alarm, and the locals began to gather more massively at the blockade. This is Mr. Veselinovic's condition, so this is absolutely not about us taking care of more and you being less concerned. This is about an emergency situation, and it's impossible for them to change the Health Insurance Act to wait, and that we can wait 30 days, until the government responds to our interpretation. What are these people gonna do today, tonight, tomorrow in Kosovo and Metohija? You say the government's representatives are present, you know who's present? Mr Bogdanovic, former Thaci's minister and head of the negotiating team, Borko Stefanovic, is present. Half your government is on vacation. The other day Dragan Sutanovac, a man came tanning, like Kosovo and Metohija, they don't care. We call, we laugh, we invite ministers present in the Republic of Serbia, and finally the President of the Republic received some kind of reward in Prague yesterday, imagine for the development of the market economy, a man of the country where people die of hunger he receives a reward for the market economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59043	It's been two minutes, no more words. National MP Milos Aligrudic advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59044	Article 107, you know when it comes to respecting others and dignity, we have to take care of what is said, so be careful and follow what others say, you know the chairman. When we talked about any form in which reality should be respected and what is in progress because of this reality, then logic and every elemental breach of those who speak beyond reality, and not beyond the agenda. And speaking of numbers 84, I'm going to be brief and I'm going to end up right now, 84 as a condition, signatures, and things like that, let's not all be such a wimp together. Let's round up these 84, the Assembly has 250 MPs, I don't choose ladies and gentlemen with whom to collect those signatures. I'm fine with the DS signatures and the SPO, both the SRS and the SNS, and even the LDP, if it will contribute to some discussion and to being here. That's what we're talking about, so I'm asking you that by twisting what's been said, the MPs and our dignity, this home and those voters who have chosen political parties are not offended. I know very well what's said by the DSS, and stating the circumstances and facts that everyone sees over television than this session of ours, ask a few friends, relatives, people you know, if they're watching this. No, they're following the news, what's going on down there. That's what it's all about, there's no abuse, and as far as I'm concerned, we're really not going to take any further part in this because it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. Let's do something concrete.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59045	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic – Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 20th Amendment are jointly composed of mid-national MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The National MP Gordana Paunović – Milosavljevic – submitted the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59046	In this amendment, we wanted to sort of put into order what might not have been possible more decadent than it is, because two parallel laws are being passed, which provides for one of them, that there will be a certain institution. So some kind of centre that will be responsible for the nomenclature of rare diseases, and then the minister, I suppose, using their information, will bring a list of necessary needs for diagnostics, etc. means to pay for treatment and diagnostics. That's why we put "institution" in the amendment. The explanation shows that we were just thinking about these tertiary centres and this organization, which now virtually imagines something that will be dislocated, quite logically, several centres or several health institutions in Serbia to deal with these. That's why we thought simply the minister shouldn't do it alone, at any rate he won't. It's gonna be some kind of expert team, probably formed by a team of these people. It's just that there was no other way to turn this idea into an amendment, but the way we are. So the message you're sending us in response to the amendments doesn't really stand to the extent that you wanted to send it to us. It's probably clear to you why we introduced it, because we just have a combination of solutions in two laws that are changing both of these moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59047	National MP Dusan Milisavljevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59048	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, since I didn't get a word when Mr. Dejan explained his amendment, I just want to say that a couple of false accusations have been made on behalf of the Director of the Republic Fund which, in practice, is not responsible for what happened to this institute. They are responsible, in practice, for people who create a health policy are at the Institute of Public Health, so we need to know who is responsible for abolishing or not eliminating something. The DS will always advocate child care, especially for children with hearing impairment. Here as a professor at the medical school, who's dealing with the otor, we're going to look into this problem as well. So some big words don't have to be used here like Mr. Dejan used it. This is where we politicize. The entire Republic Health Committee is unanimous, except for one abstention vote, voting to find a solution for these children. I sincerely hope that the Republic Health Fund, together with the Ministry of Health, will find some solution and that these children will certainly not remain unsettled by this institute. I can say that in the Republic of Serbia we have good therapists and in other practically republican institutions, such as the Clinical Centre of Serbia, such as the Clinical Centre in Nis, Novi Sad, but certainly the Institute for Instrumental phonetics and Pathology of Speech is an elderly institution that helps take care of this youngest population that is disabled and which has a terrible problem when it cannot hear, then it cannot speak. It's a big problem not only for their family, but for the whole society. The DS is practically promising that we will solve this problem in the next period. A little bit specifically with the formulation of the amendment you went against the existing law. We're going to see that in the next period, a very fast period, we're going to solve this question, that the children will continue to be taken care of in this Institute as well. What I want to say to you, too, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I have the right to say that in time, that the state of Serbia is very poor with a modest economy separates huge funds for these children. I'm going to tell you as a teacher who does even this operation that an early detection of hearing damage is being introduced in newborn children, and what only the most developed countries in Europe and America do, that the Republic Health Ministry, although it's not the minister of the DS, I'm going to commend it, even though it doesn't listen to me. Good funds are being made for a very expensive help from cohlant implants, where a cohlean implant costs between 20 and 70,000 euros. The state of Serbia has found opportunities and more than 50 such cochlean implants have been installed each year in four reference centres: Novi Sad, Nis, the Clinical Centre of Serbia and Starar. I can say that these efforts are for respect and that certainly there was no evil intention either by the Ministry or the Republic Fund, that this is how a good institute dealing with child's pathology of speech gets kicked off this list. I want to confirm once again that we will make sure that the problem is solved as soon as possible. What I have pointed out again several times, I will repeat and now, about the tender that is being discussed in Serbia for these medical aids, specifically for hearing aids, for prosthetics, for hips, for speech prosthetics, for all aids. I'd ask you to centralize these tenders, so we don't have to be in a particular situation for these huge expenditures that we're giving specifically for cohlean implants to make special preparations, i.e.. producers are installing in Novi Sad, special in Nis, special in Belgrade. My wish in person, and the DS is that by centralising these tenders you allow one preparation to be practically obtained and that through practically one option of this preparation, one manufacturer, you get easier records of the possibilities and its installation, reperation. What's more important is to stop by clinical centres, to prevent percentages that go to certain doctors to install these aids. My appeal is once again, to centralize. We're not that rich of land. I'm in favour of decentralisation, but in this case, when it comes to money, when it comes to sensitive things, I ask you to apply these stricter criteria more specifically to the prosthetics of any, whether they're for hip or knee or for hearing, to be central tenders. You'll certainly get a better price, a cheaper price, and many doctors won't get their 10% to 15%, and I think it's very important for this country to save on some things, and we also have one unique product on our market. Again, not to be one product special in Novi Sad, the other in Belgrade, and the third in Nis, which is ridiculous for our country, which has a modest economy, huge resources for health care. We need to behave a little more rationally. I will end this exhibition, many pharmaceutical houses in Serbia can say, that the mechanics and that all of their products are practically placed on our market by making personal contacts with doctors and offering them some commissions, which are why they prescribe certain preparations. That's where I'd make a proposal in front of the DS, not the Ministry, but certainly the directors of the facility determine who and when they're going to go to some professional training. I'll give you an example again, since all my exposure is through examples of life. That's why they're strong. 15 days ago there was a European Congress in Barcelona, the ORL and that of the 400 ORL doctors you have in Serbia, 150 were in Barcelona. I'll tell you that Alkaloid Skopje literally flew a whole plane from Serbia to Barcelona. I'll tell you that's a good thing, that doctors from Serbia travel and acquire new knowledge. I am sure that a huge number of these doctors who have been to these conventions, not ORL, but also cardiological, neurological, are using it as a kind of tourism, use it as an opportunity to walk outside Serbia and not bring some benefit to Serbian health. My message is that the directors of the clinic determine who goes to those conventions. If the pharmaceutical house pays for it, the director of the institution, and not that the pharmaceutical house for the individual makes certain contracts that the director of the clinical centre or the primary unit does not know as part of the clinical centre. This will enable good doctors to attend these conventions, that doctors who have their own work, who have something to say, go to these conventions, not just to use them as a type of tourism. Let's have a little bit of fun, let's see, maybe get some points together. I will also appeal to the director of the Serbian Medical Chamber that collecting passive points does not play a very large role, because given that all these doctors, which I mentioned earlier, are that out of 140 attending doctors, only 30 had works, and these others had no work. To keep these credit points focused only on reported works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59049	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59050	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable presidents, I will quote Article 2 of Council of Europe Resolution 1601 - MPs of the opposition will respect the freedom of speech and MPs of the opposition must be allowed to freely express their ideas. This concerns procedures and guidelines on the rights and responsibilities of the opposition in the democratic parliament. Since we see that there is no need for this session to end, it is also important for us to discuss these legal proposals, but they are far more irrelevant than the situation in which the Serb people are in KIM, we really think that we no longer have what we are looking for here and expect the state to do at least a minimum, and of course, from the Assembly, if anything else, to come out and tell our citizens that we are with them and that they will have our support. It is a minimum required at this time by every citizen of Serbia. If you do not want to bring the emergency situation into Serbia, as introduced in the area of our territory, at least interrupt this pointless session and report and give a clear message to the citizens of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59051	The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Mileta Pocurica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59052	It is an amendment to a member in which we wanted to keep the old solution, since what is proposed by the amendments, although the reason is that it is more precise, is that it determines a range of deadlines in which someone who will potentially achieve health care abroad determines the range in which the chosen physician monitors him whether he has suffered from acute or chronic acute illnesses, which can, when there is somewhere where he intends to go, bind him to a hospital or non-patient health care facility, including, of course, pregnancy and possibly childbirth or complications of pregnancy. This is a way that will require greater appointment of doctors, selected doctors, doctors of general practice. They're going to ask for a bigger rotation by documentation and greater responsibility, because maybe someone in the supervisory system will sometimes conclude that, let's say, some asmatician, by changing his medication, actually has an acuteization of the chronic state. Perhaps some chronic other disease, other species, such as Krono's disease, some diabetic in the worsening of glycaemia, will also be acuteed, and that means that some citizens, unlike the solution of the previous one, will, in such a long time period of retrograde backup, be left without the right to health care, and that means they will not go to the intended destination. We think this is a more restrictive solution, and that's why we suggested erasing this change.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59053	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Paputa and Radovan Rodovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, with a correction, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Zoran Stankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59054	Dear MPs, I'm a little confused with this behavior, given that it is a very significant amendment to the Health Insurance Act. I must tell you that it occurred to me, reading some historical novels, at the time of the greatest siege of Lenjingrad at that time or Petrograd, however you will, because of the poor results in the defense, was replaced by Marshal Voroshilov and there was Marshal Zhukov and he held a session of this military council, the Supreme Defence Council of Leningrad. At one point, an awe - inspiring officer came in and said - the front was breached on that and that part of the Leningrad front. The entire Leningrad city defense command jumped and went out, only Marshal Zhukov remained. They ran out, and when they saw him sitting, they came back one by one, so slowly. They asked – marshals, we have a broken front, and you sit still? He tells them -- gentlemen officers, on that part of the front there are people who are in charge of functioning and defending that part of the front, let everyone do their job. Therefore, we will do our job, officers where the front was breached will do their job. So at the beginning of my presentation in the morning part of the session, I said what we were doing in a specific case. I'm sure the competent state authorities don't sit on their hands. So if we're going to do something here, then let's work and do every job we do. In that direction, not wanting to spread the discussion, I thank you for everything you suggested today, and we will, together with you, hopefully, respond to this difficult task that has been put before us in these last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-27-0.u59055	I thank Mr Minister, I thank your associates and you, as well as all the MPs who have contributed to these significant changes, both in terms of insurance and health care, to be in the form that is most acceptable both for our patients and for our financial opportunities at this moment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(3), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 28 July 2011, starting at 10.00 p.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. So tomorrow at 10.00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by a 104-nation MP. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The MP of the National Assembly is scheduled for the quorum to exist in the day of the vote if, at the session of the National Assembly, a majority of the total number of MPs are present, so I ask you to establish the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 126 of us in the O.R. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic, Milan Dimitrijevic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ENERGETICS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the Energy Proposal to the vote, in principle. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before we move to the amendment decision, I remind you that part of the bill's proposal became an integral part of the amendment of the People's MPs: Vladan Jeremic to Article 3, Milorad Buha to Article 3, Siniš Stamenković to Article 3, groups of 21 MPs of the Parliament group Forward Serbia to Articles 7, 8 and 50, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic to Articles 17, 32, 33, 40, 43, 72, 132, 133, 143 and 157, Arsena Đurić, Milice Vojić – Marković, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić to Articles 20, 24 and 32, Srboljubjuživnović to Articles 22 and 42, Nenad Canka, Bojana Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuge and Milović to Members of 27, Mr Mirović. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. With the name of section 2 above 2 and Article 2 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapcevic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 6. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 8th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapcevic and Milos Aligrudic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 19. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Spajic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Arsen Đuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Lapcevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 25th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new section 5a. with two new members of 26a. and 26b. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 34. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 35th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 41st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 46th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, nine voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 47th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 48th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 52. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 56th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 56. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 59. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 60th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 64th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Pavel Marchok submitted to the 70th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 74th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 82. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 96th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 103. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 135th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 137. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry have submitted an amendment to Article 140. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 158th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the number of titles of chapter 18 above the 179th amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 179th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to Article 179. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 180th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 180th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 191st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry submitted an amendment to Article 193. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry submitted an amendment to Article 195. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 199th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry have submitted an amendment to Article 200. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 116 for. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry submitted an amendment to Article 203. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly have been informed by the Professional Service of the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment of the National MP Paul Marchok to the members of the 70th and 75th. The proposal for a law arises in the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for committees to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted in line with the text of the draft law. I ask that they meet immediately, first of all, the Committee on Industry, and then the Legislative Committee and submit the necessary amendment, that is, the report in Hall One. Please, let's get back to work at 11 p.m. sharp.
