ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-28-0.u50799	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units. By applying the electronic voting system, it has been found that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANY OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF THE SRPSKE BANK A.D. BELGRADE FOR OBLIGATIONS JP "JUGOIMPORT-SDPR" Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and before moving to decision-making, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 4 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the public borrowing of most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the 'Serbian Bank' a.d. for the obligations of "Jugoimport SDPR" in principle. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, accepted the bill in principle. The First Amendment, with a correction, was filed by Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour, so I find that the amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the 'Serbian Bank' a.d. for the obligations of "Yugoimport-SDPR" in general. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on granting guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the 'Serbian Bank' (Serb Bank') by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the SOCIETE GENERALE WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COUNCIL BANK Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the public borrowing of most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia with the Social Generale, with the guarantee of the World Bank, in principle. Of the 131 MPs, 127 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, accepted the bill in principle. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 131 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 131 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Socita Generala, with the guarantee of the World Bank, in general. Of the 131 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia with the guarantee of the "World Bank". We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PURPOSE OF THE YEAR'S PLAN ON THE USE OF Military SERVES AND OTHER ASSISTANCES IN MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2011. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, given that amendments have not been made to the proposal for a decision before moving to a decision-making decision in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this decision. I remind you it's point 2. The draft decision envisions that the decision enters into force as early as the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the proposal for a decision, the Government cited particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect before the eighth day of publication. Given that the National Assembly, on the basis of the adopted Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011, makes a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, it is necessary to make a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011 to take effect the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 133 MPs, 132 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011, in general. Of the 133 MPs, 133 voted for a decision. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011, in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF A SERVANT IN MULTIINATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2011. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. Of the 133 MPs, all 133 voted in favour of this decision. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on a Rules of Procedure on the work of most of the votes of all MPs. I put the motion for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in principle. Of the 133 MPs, 133 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision in principle. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Of the 133 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the motion for a decision, in general. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in general. Of the 133 MPs, all 133 have come forward with the proposal for a decision. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We will now enter into a statement on the re-determination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Code on the Supplement of the Honorable People's MPs, reminding you that the President of the Republic of Serbia, act 43-3398/10 of 31 December 2010, using the power of Article 113(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has returned to the National Assembly for a re-determination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with a written explanation. In accordance with Article 113(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 264. Item 2 and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if the National Assembly decides to vote again on the law that the President of the Republic has returned to its decision, shall be voted on by the majority of the total number of MPs, with the National Assembly deciding on it at the first next session. With all this in mind, I firstly put the motion of the President of the Republic to re-determin the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the President of the Republic to re-determin the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Before moving to a decision, I remind you once again, that according to Article 113(2), The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the law that the President of the Republic has returned to the re-determination, decides most of the votes of all MPs. Consent to Article 160. First of all, I place the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the re-voting of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, one voted yes. The National Assembly did not accept the law in principle, and we do not move to a decision on the amendments made, it would have no purpose. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zeljko Tomic, at a session on 22 February 2011, at 11.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 128 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 2011 session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your participation in the work.
