ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, there are 114 of us. To determine the number of Members present in the room, I ask the Members to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 126 of us. As it's obvious there's more of us, we can work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milos Radulovic and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within the deadline set by Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly, to consider proposals for actions in the agenda as soon as possible, was set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for today's session, in addition to representatives of the proposings of Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, to attend Jovan Ćosic, the head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, the head of the Group at the Justice Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 248. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the 12th Extraordinary Session, to determine the agenda of the session in that request. As you could see, for the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the next Dn e n e d 1 was set. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on litigation, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a Rehabilitation Act, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a decision on fees for work in the National Higher Education Council, which was submitted by the Administrative Board; 6. Proposal for a decision on fees for work in the Commission for accreditation and quality check, submitted by the Administrative Committee. National MP Milan Stanimirović, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), paragraphs 2 and 2. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the Proposal for a decision on work compensation, the National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision on the remuneration for work in the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission. Does Mr. Stanimirovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I put Mr. Stanimirovic's proposal to vote. Please make a statement. Of the 132 MPs, 122 voted for this proposal. I find the proposal accepted. We move to work according to the agenda points, and this is the point of the agenda of the Code of Criminal Procedure. First item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE (Verica Radeta from the City:By Business. According to the Rules of Procedure? Just a minute. I'll give you my word as soon as I open the session. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee of Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is allocated to: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djordža Milicevic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Milica Radovic, the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP New Serbia; MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, MP group LDP and MP Petar Jojic, the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Before I ask the minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, if she wants a word, Mrs. Radeta has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59594	Article 27, which obliges the President of the National Assembly to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and this also means Articles 102 and 101. Rules of Procedure. When all points of the agenda are considered and decided on, the National Assembly president concludes the National Assembly. That didn't happen for the previous session. Article 101. The Rules of Procedure say the president of the National Assembly can interrupt the National Assembly session to hold a new session of the National Assembly, with the obligation to explain the interruption. You have practically interrupted the session because the vote has not been completed, since the whole session includes the vote. You have failed to give an explanation for why you interrupt the session and for an indefinite period of time you are scheduled to vote, and you are obliged to schedule a precise extension of the next session. You said it was delayed indefinitely because some MPs were not present. An hour after that, or 45 minutes after that, there are 126 of you who vote for the new agenda. So, the truth is that you do not have a quorum to vote on the agenda points in the previous session and you were obliged to present that truth in accordance with Article 101 of the last and last position of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59595	Gentlemen, in accordance with article 101, I have just acted when I informed the MPs that I would be later informed of the day of the vote. However, if you consider this my argument not enough, Mrs. Radeta, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) In the day of voting, the assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give my word to Minister Snezani Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59596	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, today will be about the bill of criminal procedure, which is very important for every democratic society, as well as for the protection of human rights and freedoms declared by the Constitution. The Code of Criminal Procedure represents one of the key legislative acts of a country, and the Constitution itself contains a large number of provisions of this matter, which are being developed closer to this code. Principles contained in the Code and norms which elaborate significantly determine the extent of the implementation of the most significant human rights and freedoms recorded in international acts, the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the solutions adopted in this Code can have a significant impact on the degree and speed of detection of committed crimes and their perpetrators, and the efficiency and effectiveness of its implementation constitute a significant factor in deterrence from committing crimes. The degree of success of the prescribed solutions depends largely on the application of material criminal law. At the same time, each criminal code provides a number of key principles. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the full protection of innocent persons from the unjust conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as the protection of the fundamental rights of the accused and the full clarification of the facts relating to the offence committed, so that the sanction imposed corresponds to the crime done. On the other hand, all perpetrators of a criminal offence should also be punished for crimes committed in order to protect public and private interests protected by criminal law, as well as the deterring of future potential perpetrators of criminal offences. When drawing up the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure, a particular account has been taken of its compliance with international acts and other laws of the Republic of Serbia, the costs that its application will entail for all participants in the process, as well as the necessary technical conditions for its application. The work version of the proposed code was developed by a working group made by the holders of judicial functions of all stages and types of courts and public prosecutors, lawyers, professors of law school, as well as representatives of resolution ministries. I would point out that the working group worked very studioly on this text, that it lasted about three years, and that the most modern solutions were incorporated into the text in the laws of European countries, and that certain institutes were taken over from the Anglo-Saxon legal system in order to increase the efficiency of the process, and that the tendency is also in other laws governing the criminal proceedings of the countries of the continental system. I would also point out that in the working versions of the proposed code, there is a broad public debate through roundtables, as well as obtaining opinions from courts, public prosecutors and lawyers. The work versions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were set up on the website of the Ministry of Justice, so that all interested people could get acquainted with their content and give their suggestions and suggestions that were later discussed by the working group. In addition, an analysis of the Council of Europe's experts, as well as the opinion of the OSCE office for democratic institutions and human rights based in Warsaw, has been provided. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to present to you the most important new solutions containing the draft Code of Criminal Procedure. The most important newspaper in the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure is the introduction of a prosecutorial investigation and a party procedure based on the principle of equality before the court. As a result, there have been significant changes in the procedural roles of the authorised prosecutor and the court, and one of the most important concerns the evidence initiative during the proceedings. Instead of carrying out evidence by the court, under official duty, the burden of proving the charge is now on the prosecutor. In this respect, the Court may order a party to propose supplementary evidence or to provide itself with an exceptional determination that such evidence is brought forward, if it considers that the evidence is contradictory or unclear, and if necessary, that the subject matter of the proof would be discussed in a comprehensive manner. The principle of equality is reflected in efforts to ensure the equality of arms between the public prosecutor and the defendant in connection with the collection of evidence during the investigation. The bill allows the defence to collect evidence and material for its own benefit during the investigation. While only state authorities are responsible for the collection of evidence by means of evidence, the defence comes to evidence only with the consent of the person from whom they are supplied, which can only be used as auxiliary material by the defendant and his defender during the examination of the witnesses or verify the authenticity of his testimony. In the event that a certain evidence can be obtained by means of evidence, the defence may propose to the public prosecutor, as the investigating authority, to take it. If a public prosecutor accepts a defence proposal or is ordered by a judge for the previous proceedings on a proposal for defence, evidence for the benefit of the defence shall be obtained in a legally prescribed manner in the context of an investigation conducted by a public prosecutor. That solution avoided the introduction of the so-called A parallel investigation, which could lead to different assessments of the same evidence, as well as unnecessary increases in the costs of the procedure. The new concept of the procedure also resulted in many other changes concerning the procedural role of individual entities in criminal proceedings. The papers relating to the court should note the introduction of a judge for the previous proceedings which, in the investigation procedure and investigation, constitute a form of judicial protection of fundamental freedoms and rights, as well as the introduction of a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions. It is also significant that the jurisdiction of an individual judge is extended to criminal acts for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to eight years. The new role of the public prosecutor in the investigation process and the investigation entailed a detailed regulation of his rights. The public prosecutor handles the investigation process, decides not to take or delay criminal prosecution, conducts an investigation, concludes with the defendant's agreement on the recognition of the crime and the agreement on testimony, raises and before the court in charge represents an indictment on the main investigation, and is also authorised to declare the complaint and file emergency legal remedies. In addition, the situation damaged in criminal proceedings has been significantly changed. The right of damage has been introduced to be able to state the objection directly to the senior public prosecutor and to require him to reconsider the decision not to take or abandon prosecution. On the contrary, the resignation of the public prosecutor from the indictment after the prosecution has been confirmed, that the right to declare whether he wants to pursue criminal prosecution and represent the indictment has been damaged. When it comes to the defender, it is a newspaper that the right to provide defence in certain procedures is conditioned by a certain professional experience of defenders. In a criminal proceedings for which a 10-year sentence is prescribed or a more severe sentence, a defender can only be a lawyer with at least five years of legal practice. Cases of compulsory defence have also been extended when the proceedings are conducted for criminal offences for which a sentence of eight years or more severe punishment is prescribed, then when the accused is detained or prohibited from leaving the apartment or has been detained, then when the main search is held in the absence of the accused for incompetence which he himself has caused, when the breach of the order is removed from the courtroom until the completion of the evidence procedure or the completion of the main search and when the search is held in the absence of a duly called defendant who has not justified his absence. In the event that the defendant rejects the defendant appointed under official duty and declares that he wants to defend himself exclusively, the defendant under official duty has a limited field of action against the defendant under official duty, whose appointment the defendant has not objected to. The bill makes the difference between evidence actions and specific evidence actions. In addition to the existing evidence actions, such as the hearing of the accused, the examination of witnesses, skills, insights, reconstruction of events, temporary confiscation of cases, search and verification of suspicious transactions, it has been done both by correcting and taking samples. The Law distinguishes between the protection of a particularly sensitive witness and the protection of witnesses from intimidation. It is important to point out a new procedural institution within the framework of skill. It is about an expert advisor, or person who has the expertise in the field of skill, who has the right to attend the art, to examine the subject of the art and to propose to the expert to take certain actions, to make observations on the findings and opinions of the experts, and to ask the expert and to be questioned about the subject of the art. When it comes to specific evidence actions, the proposed code provides for the following actions – covert surveillance of communication, covert monitoring and recording, simulated transactions, computer search of data, controlled delivery and undercover investigator. It is predicted that specific evidence can be obtained if evidence of prosecution or their collection is not available in other ways. It is important to note that when deciding on the determination and duration of specific evidence actions, it is necessary to assess whether the same result could be achieved in a way that would less limit citizens' rights. The circle of criminal offences in respect of which specific evidence actions are applied involves first acts which are laid down by special law to be handled by the prosecution of special jurisdiction, then crimes against constitutional order, corporate crimes, as well as criminal offences which have been estimated not to be sufficient to prove the classical evidence. For reasons of different systemics, there are no witnesses among specific evidence actions, but the provisions on this procedural establishment are within the scope of the investigation. That part contains provisions on the public prosecutor's agreements and the defendant. Two types of agreements are provided for: an agreement on the testimony of the accused and the witness agreement of the convicted. In relation to the current legal solution, as well as new independent measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings, a ban on access, meeting or communication with a particular person, a ban on leaving the residence and a ban on leaving the apartment are provided. The possibility of determining bail has also been extended, so that this measure can be replaced by detention, in the event that the defendant is tried for a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for over 10 years, i.e. a sentence of over five years for a criminal offence with elements of violence or the sentence of a first degree court has been sentenced to a sentence of five years or more severe punishment. The claim for the determination of the guarantee may be submitted by the parties and the defendant of the defendant, the person who grants the guarantee for the defendant, and the court may, under official duty,, if he considers that the conditions for the determination of the guarantee have been met, after a public prosecutor's opinion has been obtained, determine the amount which, in a specific case, may be deposited as a guarantee. Article 211 of Article 1(4) of the Code provides a precise reason for determining detention, so that detention can be determined against persons suspected of committing a criminal offence, if a criminal offence imposed on him for over 10 years, or a sentence of over five years for a criminal offence with elements of violence or sentence of a first degree court has been imposed on him for a sentence of five years or a more severe sentence, and the manner of execution or severity of a criminal offence has led to public harassment, which may endanger the smooth and fair conduct of criminal proceedings. This provision in the draft law was found in the opinions and views of the European Court of Human Rights. The papers proposed in the field of written delivery should significantly contribute to the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. As a basic rule, letters are provided by means of an official, decision-making body, through mail or other organisation registered for writing services, local self-government authorities, by means of a request via another state authority, by means of telecommunications or electronic means, and exclusively by police. Delivery may be carried out by pointing out on the advertising board or the website of the authority of the procedure, with the consent of the person to whom the delivery is to be carried out, and by means of a letter-receiving authority, via postal fache or e-mail. In the event of the inability to submit a letter accused of the address notified by the authority of the procedure, the supplier will leave a notice that it will be displayed in writing on the notice board or on the website of the authority of the procedure and, at the end of the eight-day period from the date of the expiry of the written submission, the delivery shall be deemed to have been made. The criminal proceedings cover the investigation and investigation, which constitute the prosecutor's part of the case, while the indictment is a phase that begins the judicial part of the case. The investigation is conducted by a public prosecutor who is authorised to take action to prosecute perpetrators, and can also trust certain actions to the police responsible for carrying out his warrant. In an investigative procedure, the police themselves are authorised to take certain evidence actions, which is required to notify the competent public prosecutor without delay. The investigation is initiated by a public prosecutor's order against a certain person, when there are grounds for doubting that it has committed a crime, with the news that an investigation can also be conducted against an unknown perpetrator, when there are grounds for doubting that a crime has been committed. The order to conduct an investigation shall be delivered to the suspect, his defender, along with a call, or notice of the first evidence action to be attended. The public prosecutor may also examine the witness without inviting the suspect and his lawyer to attend the investigation if he considers that their presence may affect the witness, but in that case the court decision cannot be based solely or to a decisive extent on that witness statement. The order to complete the investigation will be brought by the public prosecutor when he finds that the state of affairs in the investigation is sufficiently clear, and in addition, the public prosecutor may interrupt, suspend or supplement the investigation. The suspect and his defender have the opportunity to appeal directly to the senior public prosecutor by the end of the investigation for delaying proceedings and other irregularities during the investigation. If the objection is adopted, the competent public prosecutor shall be given a mandatory instruction to remove identified irregularities during the investigation. In the event of a refusal of the complaint, the suspect and his defender may appeal to the judge for his proceedings, which, if he considers that the complaint was established, will require that measures be taken to remove irregularities. The prosecution comes, as a rule, after an investigation has been conducted, when there is reasonable doubt that a person has committed a crime. However, if the public prosecutor considers that he has sufficient evidence to form the basis for the indictment, the indictment may also be brought without the investigation. The indictment is delivered to an emergency council, along with files made by the public prosecutor during the investigation. Immediately upon receipt, the council is questioning whether the indictment is properly drawn up, so if he finds out it isn't, he will return it to the public prosecutor to correct the shortcomings. The failure of a public prosecutor to correct the shortcomings has resulted in a solution to dismiss the indictment. In the case of a private lawsuit, the private prosecutor is believed to have dropped the prosecution and the indictment is dismissed. The defendant to whom the indictment has been delivered may file a written response to the indictment, which may be done by the defendant without special authority of the defendant, but not against his will. During the investigation of the indictment, an outsider can order a public prosecutor to complete, or conduct an investigation, and a private prosecutor to collect certain evidence. In the event that an outsider considers that there is no place for the main search to be held, the solution will depend on whether the prosecution preceded the investigation, suspend the proceedings, or refuse the indictment, or otherwise confirm the indictment. Immediately upon receipt of the confirmed indictment, the president will begin preparations for the main search, which includes: holding a preparatory hearing, determining the main search and making other decisions concerning the management of the procedure. The party's preparatory hearing shall state the case, explain the evidence to be carried out in the main investigation and propose new evidence, determine the factual and legal issues to be discussed in the main investigation, decide on the contractual recognition of the criminal offence, the detention and suspension of the criminal proceedings, as well as on other issues for which the court considers to be relevant for the maintenance of the main investigation. The preparatory hearing shall be held before the President of the Council, without public presence and shall be mandatory when it comes to criminal acts for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than 12 years, while criminal offences are threatened with an easier penalty left to the President that, according to the allegations, the evidence submitted assesses whether it is necessary. In the event that the public prosecutor, the accused and his defender have reached an agreement on the recognition of a criminal offence in relation to certain charges, the preparatory hearing shall be designated only for part of the indictment which is not covered by the agreement. The determination of the main search includes activities related to the time and place of search, the call of parties and participants in the process, the separation of illegal evidence, the determination of additional judges, the examination of witnesses or experts. At this stage of the procedure, evidence may be proposed provided that no preparatory hearing has been held. When it comes to the provisions on the management of the main search, one of the newspapers, which should be specifically referred to a criminal offence which has been discovered or carried out in the main search. In that case, the president's obligation is to notify the competent public prosecutor of the criminal offence committed by the defendant, or another person on the main investigation. Similarly, it is handled when there is a suspicion that a witness or an expert has given a false statement in the main search, when a special report is submitted to the competent public prosecutor. The new solution, contained in the proposed code, is that the main search, provided that the necessary assumptions are met, begins by adopting a solution to maintain the main search. In the event of a change in the president's position in the delayed main search, the search party may, after the party's statement, decide that due to the expiry of time, the protection of witnesses or other important reasons, witnesses and witches may not be questioned again, but to review the record of their statements given in the previous main search. The main investigation begins with a statement of charges, a statement of the indictment, followed by the opening statements followed by the parties briefly presenting the evidence they are going to carry out, suggest facts that will be proved and legal issues to be discussed in the main search. The process of proof begins by the president announcing his beginning. The order of evidence to be carried out in the main investigation is such that the defendant is first heard, then the evidence proposed by the prosecutor, then the evidence proposed by the defence, after which the evidence determined by official duty and by the proposal of the injured, and ultimately evidence of the facts of which the decision on the type and extent of criminal sanctions depends. Following the completion of the evidence process, the parties give final statements, and then the solution finds that the main search has been completed. At the end of the main search, a verdict is made and announced. The verdict can be reluctant, liberating and judgmental. A significant newspaper is the solution that, in certain cases, the verdict does not have to be reasoned, i.e. it can be partially explained. The bill lays down more precisely criteria for the imposition of fines and fines in the public interest, as well as for replacing them with a prison sentence. The bill, as regular legal remedies, provides for a complaint against a first-degree verdict, a complaint against a second-degree verdict and a complaint against a solution, while emergency legal remedies are a requirement for repetitive criminal proceedings and a claim for the protection of legality. In the light of the legal proceedings, the paper states that the examination of the breach of the procedure under official duty by the court is significantly narrowed down, in line with the new role in the procedure. Instead of a significant breach of the procedure that exists, if the sentences or arguments of judgment contain certain shortcomings, the proposal for a code provides that a significant breach of the provisions of criminal proceedings exists only if the sentence of judgment is incomprehensible. Also, unlike an existing solution, this breach is not determined by the court's official duty. In addition, in accordance with the principle of economicity, if any of the evidence is found not to be permitted, it is provided for the Court to consider whether a factual situation has been sufficiently clarified without that evidence, or whether the same judgment would be reached, unlike the existing solution provided for in that case, that the judgment would immediately be abolished. The bill introduces a new institute for the decision of the first-degree court on appeal. This institute provides that if the facts and the proposed new evidence, which can contribute to a comprehensive discussion of the case of evidence, can be reopened and the main investigation can continue. A complaint may be made against a new ruling by the first-degree court, which confirmed or modified the earlier verdict. If the first-degree court assesses that the facts and new evidence proposed in the complaint cannot contribute to a comprehensive debate in the case of evidence, it will submit a complaint to the opposing party, starting with a second-degree procedure. When it comes to emergency legal medicines, the paper presents that a request for protection of legality, besides a public prosecutor, can also be declared by the defence under certain conditions. In addition to the existing solution that this legal remedy can be countered by judicial decisions, the possibility of refuting a public prosecutor's decision has also been introduced, given that he is handling the investigation and making certain decisions. The Supreme Cassation Court shall decide upon a request for the protection of legality only if it considers it relevant for the proper or uniform application of the right. In addition, a new reason for the declaration of the application for the protection of legality is introduced, if the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights finds that the human rights and freedoms of the accused or other participant in the proceedings, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, have been violated. In the end, I'd like to make a few notes regarding the final provisions of the proposed code. A delay in the application of the Code is provided for in criminal proceedings for organised crime and war crimes until 15 January 2012, i.e. until 1 September 2012. The suspension of entry into force of the Code aims to ensure the professional training of judges, public prosecutors, police, lawyers and other persons relevant for the application of this Code. It is also necessary to provide adequate equipment as a prerequisite for the successful functioning of new legal solutions. At the end of this presentation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to thank you all for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in the National Assembly, the bill will be adopted, creating normative assumptions for a more effective criminal procedure, which is one of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the process of obtaining EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59597	Before I ask if they want a word from the rapporteurs of the committees, two notices about authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. National MP Djuro Peric and the mandated representative of the group of MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia, MP Biljana Miladanovic, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Also, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18 hours today, and until we are done working on a principle search point that is open and under way. The work break will usually be between 14 and 15 hours. I'm asking if they want the word of the committee's informants. The chairman of the Legislative Committee? MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59598	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Malovic, for allowing me, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, to sublimely submit a report to the Committee of which I am chairman. Given the fact that I consider it an extremely important law, I would say it is a revolutionary law that will drastically change the legal life in this area, so in criminal procedural legislation. The law is not only based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the relevant provisions of the Constitution, but on important international documents, as well as on the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. What is also important here to point out is that the support of this law was also given by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, based in Warsaw, and that not only the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia participated in this law, but also that the professional public was very closely involved in drawing up a draft or proposal for this law. I'd like to remind you, as an MP and as someone who's a lawyer, that Article 3. The criminal code defines the basis and limits for the determination of criminal offences and the regulation of criminal sanctions, which are the protection of human and other fundamental social values, in the first place constitutional and other social values, and that is what is the basis of criminal law in a material and legal sense. The Code of Criminal Procedure is a procedural law of systemic importance. It represents, practically, tools or tools or what you have stated in the light of the law, procedural weapons in the hands of the prosecution and defences on the other hand, as a party to the procedure, therefore, a procedural instrument for the implementation of the Criminal Code as a material law. What is revolutionary in this law are, above all, his principles on which he rests, which are: principles of fair trial, fair and fair trial, principle of economics, principle of proportionality. We lived in a criminal-price environment for about 50 years, where we had so-called. The inquisitor principle, i.e. where the court in charge of the proceedings managed not only the process but also the identification of the evidence to be carried out, ex-office decided what was to be carried out. Now we're entering a completely different terrain. As someone has already noticed at the Justice Committee session, we have a combination of Anglo-Saxon rights, which I welcome, and continental law and what is a good tradition in Serbian legislation. I'll remind you that many countries from the so-called so-called A continental law corpus, such as Italy, Germany, also have a prosecutorial investigation incorporated into its criminal-processing legislation, and that is what I think is one of the key newspapers in this legal matter. Therefore, the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation, i.e. the conduct of a key role as a public prosecutor in the initiation of investigations, investigations and all that we have so far referred to as pre-criminal proceedings and the stage of the investigation is moving from the court's investigation to the field of the public prosecutor. Therefore, the independent status of public prosecutors has been largely ensured essentially by these provisions. Independent in the sense that no one can influence him, but at the same time the principle of hierarchy or control of the handling of a public prosecutor by him directly to the prosecution. It is also important to point out that the principle of contradictoryness of the proceedings in this code is brilliantly brought to an end, i.e. all the details and all the details, so to speak, by the burden of proving the prosecution this time on the prosecutor, and the evidence is being carried out on a proposal of the parties, as you, Your Honorary Madam Minister, have said. The subject matter of the proof is facts which make the mark of a criminal offence or which depend on the application of some other provisions of the material law, that is, the Criminal Code, as well as the facts of which the application of the criminal proceedings depends. One of the important issues I would also like to highlight in this brief statement is that the assessment of evidence and the determination of facts relating to evidence is regulated by Article 16. He says court decisions can only be based on evidence that, in itself or in the way of supply, is not contrary to the Constitution, the laws, the general rules of international law and approved international contracts. The principle of "and dubio prophesy", therefore, in the case of doubt, more favourable to the defendant, which we had only nominally in our current legal order, is here, in particular, pointed out by the indirectly binding state or public prosecutor who personifies the state that when it enters the criminal proceedings, when it so happens to open the case, there is a solid corpus of evidence to determine the main investigation and the condemning verdict, thus reducing improvisation, reducing irresponsibility, any public prosecutor, any defence, and thus reducing the possibility of manipulation, achieving the effectiveness of the conduct of the criminal proceedings and we have a great balance between the authority of the public prosecutor and, on the other hand, the defence and the rights of the defendant.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59599	National MP, five minutes and 45 seconds. Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? He has the word MP Đuro Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59600	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Ms. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we begin a assembly debate on one of the most important legal acts in our legal system – the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the proposed Code, we have a number of newspapers and improvements to the current provisions which, without any doubt, will, in the opinion of the PUPS parliamentary group, place this code in line with the most modern legal acts of this kind in the world. It should be pointed out that the effectiveness and effectiveness of its implementation, as well as the effectiveness of the prescribed solutions, will largely depend on the application of material and criminal rights. It is important to underline, too, that the proposed Code is in line with international acts and other laws of the Republic of Serbia. In the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure, it is of great importance, among other things, to define the new role of the public prosecutor. It was necessary to ensure that it plays a significant role in the process, as well as greater powers in the pursuit of criminal offences, but these increased powers also require increased responsibility in all stages of the procedure. It is certainly one of the most important newspapers in the proposed Code of Criminal Procedure and the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation and party proceedings, and one of the essentials is the evidence initiative in the course of the proceedings. Instead of carrying out evidence by the court on official duty, the burden of proving the prosecution is on the prosecutor, and the evidence is being carried out on a proposal by the parties. One of the key issues regarding the evidence concerns the assessment of evidence and the determination of facts. It is prescribed that court decisions can only be based on evidence which in itself or in the way of supply is not contrary to the Constitution, the laws and rules of international law. The new role of the public prosecutor in the investigation and investigation implies a detailed regulation of his rights, which is also done in Article 43. The law. The public prosecutor handles the investigation, decides on the taking or delaying of criminal prosecution, conducts an investigation, concludes with the defendant's agreement on the recognition of criminal acts and the agreement on testimony, raises and before the court in charge represents an indictment on the main investigation, and may give up on it. He is also authorised to make an appeal and to submit emergency legal medications. The proposed Code has seen significant changes in the situation damaged in criminal proceedings. Chapter 6 of the proposed Code is dedicated to the defendant and the defendant in general. The defendant's rights are governed, as are the special rights of the arrested. As for the defenders, it is envisaged that only a lawyer with at least five years of legal practice, i.e. a lawyer who has served for at least five years as judge, public prosecutor or deputy public prosecutor, can be a lawyer with at least five years of legal practice. The papers relating to the court should mention Article 22, in which it is specified that, in the first degree, an individual judge, for crimes for which a fine or sentence of up to eight years is prescribed. Introducing the judge in the previous proceedings, i.e. in the preliminary investigation and investigation, it is a form of judicial protection of fundamental freedoms and rights. The news is also a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions. In addition to existing evidence actions such as the hearing of the accused, the examination of witnesses, the skills, the insights, the reconstruction of events, the temporary confiscation of cases, the search and verification of suspicious transactions, and proof of correctness and sampling was introduced. One of the newspapers containing the provisions of the proposed code also refers to the protection of witnesses, with the difference between the protection mechanism of a particularly sensitive witness and the protection of witnesses from intimidation. It is also important to point out a new procedural institution within the framework of skill. It is about an expert advisor or a person who has expertise in an area where skill is determined. The Code also proposes specific evidence actions and these are: covert surveillance of communication, covert monitoring and recording, simultaneous transactions, computer data search, controlled delivery and undercover investigator. There are no witnesses among the special evidence actions, as the Ministers said, and the provisions on this procedural establishment are contained in the case which regulates the investigation and which contains provisions on the public prosecutor's agreements and the defendant. Two types of agreements are envisaged – a witness agreement and a witness agreement. Special evidence actions shall only be applied if evidence of prosecution cannot be obtained otherwise if their collection is significantly difficult. It is important to underline that when deciding on the determination and the duration of the specific evidence actions, it is necessary to assess whether the same result could be achieved in a way that less limits the rights of citizens. The scope of the criminal offences to which specific evidence actions are applied covers the first acts for which the special law provides for the prosecution of special jurisdiction, then criminal acts against constitutional order, corrupt criminal acts against constitutional order, corruptive crimes, and criminal acts which have been estimated not to be sufficient for evidence. For the sake of more effective conduct of the proceedings, independent measures are provided for to ensure the presence of the accused, as well as the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. These are: a ban on accessing, meeting or communicating with a particular person, a ban on leaving the residence and a ban on leaving the apartment. The ban on leaving the residence covers not only the place of residence but also the territory of the Serbian state. The possibility of determining bail has also been extended, so that this measure can be replaced in the event that the defendant is tried for a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for over 10 years, i.e. the sentence of prison for over five years for a criminal offence with elements of violence or the sentence of a first-degree court has been sentenced to a sentence of five years or more severe punishment. The papers proposed in the field of written delivery should, in our opinion, contribute significantly to the more efficient conduct of criminal proceedings. In addition to the usual methods of sending letters, the proposed laws also provide for the possibility of a call for a major search or another call being made orally to the person in front of the authority with a warning of the consequences of no arrival. The delivery may be carried out by pointing out on the advertising board or on the website of the authority of the procedure. The proceedings include a pre-examination procedure, an investigation, which is part of the prosecution's case, while the indictment is a phase that begins the court's part of the case. The investigation is initiated by a public prosecutor's order against a certain person when there are grounds for suspicion of a criminal offence. The news is that an investigation can also be conducted against an unknown perpetrator when there are grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed. The indictment comes, as a rule, after an investigation has been conducted when there is reasonable doubt that a person has committed a crime. Following receipt of the confirmed indictment, the president of the Council shall immediately begin preparations for the main search, which means holding a preparatory hearing, determining the main search and making other decisions concerning the management of the proceedings. The new solution contained in the proposed code is that the main search, provided that the necessary assumptions are met, begins with a solution to maintain the main search. As far as the verdict is concerned, the paper constitutes a provision on the absence of an argument or a partial argument of the verdict. The PUPS Group considers that it is very important that the proposal for this Code contains consistent implementation of certain principles relevant for criminal proceedings. This, in our opinion, will enable the criminal proceedings to be more effective and the verdicts to be passed within much shorter deadlines. In this respect, the principle of a reasonable trial is particularly important. In the proposed press code, it is to specify the court's authority to assess and prevent the taking of procedural actions that may lead to the abuse of the right to delay proceedings. It's about the way we're tried within a reasonable time frame. For example, the court will, by means of a solution against which the appeal does not retain execution, deny the party, the defender, damaged as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor, as well as legal advocates and attorneys and the right to an action which is clearly being misused by the law in order to delay the proceedings. This, in our opinion, is a very good solution because it was often in practice. The proposed code did not explicitly provide for the principle of economicity, but it shows that it provides for a reduction of the duration of the procedure and a reduction of budgetary costs, as well as the costs of other participants in the process, and always has the protection of the rights of participants in the process in relation to the economicity of the conduct. The economics of the procedure, for example, is that only disputed factual and legal issues, avoiding double or multiple implementation of the same evidence at different stages of the procedure, are identified in the main search. The introduction of an agreement on charges and defence also extended the circle of criminal acts for which the judge is an individual. We think it is important to prepare the principle of proportionality, although this principle is not explicitly foreseen. The essence of this principle is that in situations where there are more options for action, one that is most favourable to a particular participant in the process is implemented. I must stress that a significant step has been taken in modernising the criminal procedure, which is very important. The proposed code contains new solutions that predict the use of modern technology, new methods, as well as new scientific and expertise. It enables the use of modern information and communication technology, enabling different kinds of communication with participants in the process. In particular, it is necessary to underline and highlight the impact of the new solutions contained in the proposed code on participants in the procedure. The proposed law significantly changes the role of the court in criminal proceedings because instead of a solution under the applicable law, in which the investigating judge played a key role in the stage of the investigation, the role is now left to the public prosecutor in connection with the investigation phase. The role of the court is to ensure that the rights of the defendant are protected, and at the main stage of the proceedings, the court carries out the duties of the court. On the other hand, the court has a very significant role to play in investigating the indictment. The role of the court is to scrutinise the indictee and the evidence collected in the investigation. According to the proposed code, the newspaper is in criminal proceedings, a prosecutor's investigation is under way. The public prosecutor is now responsible for the success of carrying out the investigation and the defence of the indictment throughout the proceedings, which increases his responsibility in relation to the resolutions under the current code. The burden of proof is primarily on the public prosecutor, while the court is now in a neutral position in some way. The public prosecutor and police are obliged to unbiasedly clarify the suspicion of a criminal offence for which they carry out official activities and to examine with equal care the facts of the defendant, but also the facts that are in his favor. I think it's very important provisions that significantly narrow down the discretionary authority of public prosecutors. We also think that a good solution is given in the proposal in Article 16 which is the rights of the defendant very comprehensively, in detail and properly set up. It is prescribed that the accused must be brought before the court as soon as possible and be tried impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. It is new that the defendant must have a defender if the proceedings are conducted for a criminal offence for which the sentence of eight years or more is attributed. So far, it's been 10 years and a harder punishment. Compared to the provisions so far concerning rehabilitation, new provisions are more precisely regulated in this area. It is foreseen that the convicted person is entitled to three grounds: the exercise of the right to compensation for damages, the exercise of the right to moral satisfaction and the exercise of the right to the recognition of a working internship or of an insurance internship. It should also be pointed out that solutions under the proposed code significantly improve the status and rights damaged in the process by the court being obliged to decide at the same time, in addition to the decision to impose a penalty, on the property claim damaged. This avoids the conduct of a litigation procedure after a criminal trial has been completed and prevents the occurrence of obsolescence. There is no doubt that witness protection is one of the basic conditions of successful evidence and the conduct of criminal proceedings. The provisions of the proposed code specify the way in which witnesses are protected, while the institute of a particularly sensitive witness is prescribed in Article 103. In the end, I would like to point out in particular that we have received a really modern, modern and comprehensive criminal code, which has included and introduced so much new and missing, which is necessary, making it a solid basis for much faster and more efficient functioning of our entire judicial system. Because of this, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote for this new code of criminal procedure in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59601	It was used 15 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59602	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, listening to my predecessors cannot be surprised by the surprise, it turns out that everything here is great. Everyone has a right to think that they're probably talking some time and something they don't mean. I'm deeply convinced of that, especially in the case of that first discussion. We must, as a New Serbia parliamentary group, express our dissatisfaction, first of all, that such serious system laws, which we all agree they are, come Wednesday, and it's quite a miracle, it's gotten a little bit of time, that this debate is separated. These laws require deep analysis for at least a month. All of this is suddenly put in front of the MPs, so we'll probably have trouble pointing out in these 20 minutes all the serious objections that apply to this law. The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted 15 amendments. We'll try to make some balance with them eventually. However, I would like to begin with the last amendment immediately. My discussion will be just since the last amendment, and this is a proposal that, if voted, this legislative proposal should be moved to January 1st, at least until 2014, and the reasons for this will be explained further. The proposal for this law is a devaluation of the principle of truth and a completely adversarial construction of the main search, with a minimisation of the role of criminal court. That's the main remark. In further exposure, I will stick to some of the perhaps professional things, but the essence of this House is to give citizens what it means, the simplest thing. Is it possible that by criminal charges of the police, in this case, the prosecutor, who is reviewing these files, when they are filed with him, he is the one who initiates the procedure, does he have the elements of the crime, then is he pressing charges or not giving up on prosecution? Does such a party in the process so far, along with lawyers, need and can conduct an investigation? It's very simple to say, when someone is responsible for the crime so far, the prosecutor has been in office to collect evidence and that he is being charged with, but also those evidence that is favourable to the defendant. Does anyone think, in this room, that whoever file charges, practically initiates criminal prosecution, will be able to be objective in this gathering of material truth, and the essence of any trial is to get to the truth? I'm absolutely sure that won't happen. Is it possible that the court will now be just one silent observer of the duel between the prosecutor and the possibly accused and his perhaps humble or elite lawyer? It is likely that this battle will lose the party by this principle. I'll tell you, when you're presenting all the facts, the fact that a mixture of this continental, which we have in practice, rights and Anglo-Saxon or adversial law exists. We cannot ignore the solution that, like New Serbia, we have accepted the guilty confession as one good model from this Anglo-Saxon, adversial right, but in principle, all of what we have heard earlier, discussions, were just something that is good, something that will be good, but where is there a fair trial and where is the party in the proceedings, or blame, regardless of whether he is guilty or not? The bottom line of the story is that we're not presenting the fact that in the Anglo-Saxon judicial systems for this kind of prosecution investigation, he practically knows no one. I'll tell you there's no prosecution investigation in America. That's the investigation run by the police. In Canada, too. There is one in Italy, but if you wanted to file an investigation, then you should have inserted those elements that these legal systems contain. In Italy it is always mandatory to defend, there is no selection of whether it is eight, five, six years or over 15 years, which is both in our criminal law and in some other parts of the obligation. In these systems, where the police are conducting an investigation, there is always a obligation to defend themselves and, in some ways, puts the party in an equal position. That's the fundamental difference, we take everything that's favourable and good for the state. I repeat, guilty confession is one good model, but we can't put a party in the full seal, and we're here to say that everything is great, that everything is fine. But nothing is good, because such a strange mixture of Anglo-Saxon or continental law, I'm afraid our judiciary will lead to a dead end. I'm just going to try to say that the completely adversial model of the main search is not adequate for criminal proceedings in Serbia. This could in practice lead to very serious difficulties. In such a model of criminal proceedings, only parties could formally have the same position. The truth is not come at all costs, so that when it is objectively not possible principle and dubio pro reo must be applied. This is no longer the case under this bill of criminal procedure for Serbia, which is a very bad solution that requires serious criticism. The lack of the principle of material truth from criminal proceedings is contrary to other fundamental criminal-processing principles. It is absolutely pointless that the draft new Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of appeal against a verdict because of the incorrectly established factual situation. The abandonment of principles, the determination of material truth in criminal proceedings is essentially immoral, because the truth in criminal matters can be observed beyond the general context of the relationship between law and morality. Most citizens expect the truth, both in the context and as a consequence of criminal proceedings. Such truth often has historical significance. So, as I said, the basic objection is the devaluation of the principle of truth and a completely adversical construction of the main search, with course the minimisation of the role of criminal court. I'm asking the question -- is in practice, given that we had a reform of the judiciary, that certain judges were put where they are, and that there are a number of prosecutors, would that make sure that there might be more judges at some point, and now less prosecutors? How will this and how will it be solved, etc.? The New Serbia's proposal is, if it enters this concept, to provide both mandatory defences. Mandatory defense for all crimes, no matter what. Otherwise, if we're already applying this adversion procedure, then the question of thinking is also about the jury. If we have a plea of guilt, then only the court in America makes, without a jury, its decision. Here we have everything, I repeat, which is useful for the state, which may make it easier, perhaps certain judges will be pleased that the investigation will move on to prosecutors – "my concern is to move on to another," but is that good? Of course, there are some technical things here and through the amendments we'll take care of, and we'll try to make sure that something good is accepted. I don't know if it's going to be so fast, is that going to be okay? There's a lot of speed here. It seems to me that we have had one reform of the judiciary that has been implemented in some cases, probably correctly. There are some things that aren't right. We're changing very quickly, Ministers, Crucial Laws, these system laws. Of course, as I will say about the litigation process, there are extremely good things, and it is very good in principle to regulate the Law on litigation. I think this law is in a hurry. That's why I think it's necessary to move a little bit of this application. I think it'll be useful. Because I'm sure we'll get into a situation where on September 1, 2012, we'll probably meet you, or some other government, probably, or this government, with a quick desire to make this go away because it's not going to get adequate conditions. Of course, the law is ahead of us. I repeat that in the debate in detail, New Serbia will propose some things, and we hope that some things, in particular, this last amendment that I have repeatedly potentiated, will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59603	It has been used for 12 minutes and 40 seconds since the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59604	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us an important system law, on such laws rest in fact the legal systems of the serious states. We can evaluate this law in various ways, in a manner consistent with the approach offered by the legislator. First of all, I would refer to some good things and some objective necessity that follows this law. Was it necessary for the judicial reform to follow legislation as well? Yes, of course, it was necessary. Was it necessary for fundamental laws, as the Code of Criminal Procedure, to be laundered in this reform? Yes, of course, and that was necessary. Of course, that opens up some questions. First of all, I would refer to what Mrs. Minister said in her exposé and what is essentially something that needs to be followed by good laws and good reforms in countries like ours. Ms. Minister spoke about what is in the law and some of the principles of which, in fact, the functioning of the judiciary, or its criminal segment, should be improved in the entire system of justice. I'll try not to repeat what's already been said. I will especially try not to convince in short lines what is in the code. The point of what we're getting in the material is that they're not being convinced, they're having a discussion about the essentials. A few things have been said here about improving speed and efficiency. Of course, we have to support that, in accordance with the facts of our criminal proceedings and similar facts, that some of the criminal acts that were essential to the changes in our society have been endless, some have not yet been completed, and some have ended in a sloppy way. Because speed and efficiency are going to be improved, it's something that needs to be the essential attribute of one of these laws. There's also the protection of innocent faces. All criminal codex, criminal code, had access to no one who was not convicted, or for the presummation of innocence, could be treated as guilty. We see some improvements here and that's really good, because if we want European standards, then we have to put European standards into all segments of legislation. Something has been said about harmony. When I talk only about the measure of the law, I'll stick to that question. We really need compliance with European regulations. But whether that harmony should go so far and whether we should be more Catholic than the Pope, that's the question we can argue about, but about which we can agree. In the end, a few things were said about principles. All of us who have studied law know of the essential importance of principles in any procedure, in criminal and procedural law itself. I would refer to the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time and I would refer to the principle of economics. As pointed out, only disputed – factual correct questions are being identified in the main search, avoiding double or multiple implementation of the same evidence at different stages of the procedure. Not to list the other attributes of this principle, but I really think that's what was wrong with our judicial system, not only about the criminal proceedings, but also about the other segments of our judiciary. Now I would also refer to the general picture, that is, the character of the debate that we are having in Parliament on this system code, which is the foundation of the functioning of the judicial system and the entire political system of a state. I have a question – what approach have we had so far in determining the place of a system code in our judiciary? What's the social role? What kind of message do we send to society with this kind of approach? Accordingly, the question – what are the perspectives of applying good solutions in the code? What is the attitude of the legislator toward what is apparently bad in the code? Why am I asking these questions? First, I will refer to something called – the reasons for the adoption of the laws by emergency procedure. It is said in the explanation – the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. I don't know why the word law? It could also have been explained to be the law, because we know the difference between the law and the laws. It is said that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed in order to comply with international obligations and to comply with EU rules. We know that's what we're in for. Where have we been? This job was supposed to have been set up a long time ago. Here we have received information that almost three years have been done to determine the text of the Code and such a long period should give one guarantee that everything has been done thoroughly and that it has actually insisted on good and applicable solutions. But let us remember a proverb, which the serpents have eaten, which the lizard is afraid of. To remember, what did we do with the Code of Criminal Procedure in the preceding period, or what is the Code of Criminal Procedure that we have been applying so far? Remember, we've been making, or deciding on amendments and additions to the already delegated Code of Criminal Procedure, which is in the legal normation of a non-ense, in order to avoid conflicts in criminal law, as it could have caused inapplicability of the laws, or law that was in force. However, it was at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so it can also be understood why such a galatijas apply, i.e. the creation of such regulations, but given the many attributes of ineffectiveness of the government of Mr Cvetkovic, it may not be surprised at such an approach at this time. So, with all the praise that this is such an important job, how-so, closed end, I would now look back on the scale and ask some questions. I'd like to get answers to those questions. When I spoke in principle, with all the praises and all the positive attributes of what they bear the principles for whose application was given to the explanation of this code, I would refer to the principle of material truth. That principle, we all remember, when we passed criminal procedural law, was one of the basic principles of criminal proceedings, and here in the law I don't see it that way. To remind ourselves of the alphabet of the criminal proceedings - the request to initiate the criminal proceedings is a reasonable doubt, the indictment - probability, first-degree verdict - certainty, second-degree verdict - true. Is the absence of the principle of material truth in criminal proceedings possible for us to stick to the alphabet of criminal proceedings? I understand the legislator's intensities that, with the application of certain institutions of Anglo-Saxon law, he has this approach, but I would like to get an explanation for why such an approach and what did the legislator want to achieve? I would also like to get an explanation of the decision to separate the investigative and investigative proceedings. There are reasons both for and against. Why did the legislator have such access? Now I would refer to what is the most significant newspaper in this code compared to previous legislation, which is a prosecutor's investigation. An explanation of why it was meant to be done we heard and these arguments are in place. The prosecution investigation is something that leads us to comply with EU rules and we talked about it earlier when we talked about principles and reasons. But the question arises how will the prosecution investigation be applied to our current judicial system? Speaking of application, I'd like to do a crackdown, and I'd like to go back to another previous question, that's Article 608, where it's said that the application of the code will start from September 1st of next year, except for cases of criminal proceedings in organised crime cases. As a law professor, I'm interested in what if during the process, it's not about organized crime, it's about ordinary crime? What about it? How does a prosecutor's investigation move on to what is an investigation conducted by an investigative judge? This procedure is not clear enough and is not adequately explained. I'd like to get an explanation for what it's been done like that for. Now to return to the prosecution's own investigation, or the attributes of the prosecution's investigation. I have the impression that with the prosecution's investigation they were somehow smuggled in, forgive me for that expression, and some attributes of Anglo-Saxon law. I'm under the impression that now the parties will have a criminal trial like a lawsuit before a state authority, where we have two opposing parties, one is a prosecutor, and the other is accused, or accused, and we have a court that does not deal with the principle of material truth, but will act more like a litigation. I know that's not the case, but I'd like to get an explanation for how such a solution happened. In particular, when we talked about harmonising with EU rules, we can also look back on German law, they did not go so far as to apply prosecution investigations and they had a very different relationship according to the principle of material truth and everything I spoke about in my previous presentation. I would refer to something called the tradition of procedural legislation in the Serbian people. We have a rich legislative tradition, both constitutional and legislative, and thus we can rise, not among the countries in the Balkans, but among the countries in Europe. But, to remind you, by 1929, the prosecutor was, apart from the military legislation, or the military prosecutor's office, the prosecutor was part of the court, or one of the judges of the court. In 1929, we're getting the State's Attorney's Office Act, but then we don't get a prosecutor's investigation. Until today, it is not in our legislation. So the prosecution investigation is one serious newspaper. Is our current justice system capable of applying this paper? When I talk about it, I would ask a question about education, that is, is it enough for a year to carry out education and that the staff we now have are, what are they, preparing for the application of one of these laws, especially because it is quite contrary to the tradition of procedural legislation in Serbia? I'm not saying it's bad, but I'm asking how? In the end, I would refer to something called mandatory defense. Has the legislator considered an ignorant party that is poor? Will such an unskilled party be left to the prosecutor's mercy and mercy, who and how did he prepare for him to be convicted against whom he was being prosecuted? So I'd like to get an answer to that question, too, because if we don't get an adequate answer to that question, maybe we'll have a problem with the Strasbourg court. We don't need that at all right now. At the end of one general look, I would refer to what we LDP talked about from our anti-constitutional campaign to today. It's okay to investigate the prosecution, it's okay to seek and seek to uniformize our rights, or bring the right of EU countries closer, but it's a notorious fact, that's what we said when we criticized both the content and the way the Constitution was adopted, that the prosecutor was dependent on the executive authority because of his choice and how it depends. Is this all we talked about falling into the water because the prosecutor and, I would say, a good part of the judiciary depends on the will of the executive authority and the will of certain parties? How do you get in the way of that? We know, we need to change the Constitution, but how at this point? At the very end, I will add that, of course, it is necessary to support the adoption of one of these system codes, of course, to support the unification, that is, the approximation of rights in the EU, but of course we should also insist on improving the text of the laws, insist that all the issues raised here be clarified, because before the EU, we cannot with unexplained questions and cannot in the way we have gone so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59605	Sixteen minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Two minutes of replica, clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59606	This is only because of the mention of Vojislav Kostunica in the context at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who is otherwise the president of our party and Mr. Rangelovic's statement hurt us and our voters, to a rather extent. In fact, if the question of the judiciary is put into a negative context at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and this context is spreading and who knows what else, by the reputation of a wonderful TV station, whose name I won't mention here, which the floscule otherwise invented, and the tour of the people is every little bit, it is, after all, not correct. For reasons of clarity, I would like to remind you that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, a strategy of justice was adopted and established. This strategy has not been implemented to the day of today, but has been distorted, twisted and produced by one freak, a miracle that today is marching around this assembly in the light of the various amazing regulations proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The speech we just heard is absolutely well-founded, professionally strongly supported, but the problem is that if such a speech contains elements that politicise it to the point of low politics, then it is not a basic discussion. Then everything else is devalued. So, these regulations are inconsistencies, perverse, and if we talk about them rationally and worthily, then we can't chase down the grandmothers and frogs, especially not as though, by the way, disqualifying some political opponents, by establishing a totally amazing and insane mantra that everything was bad at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so probably if the snow was falling, if a bird froze, it's probably because it was the government of Vojislav Kostunica, you know. And at that time there was a social gross product that was bigger than today. At that time, important reforms that have not yet been implemented have been launched, precisely because of the obstruction of the current government. It is essentially the whole truth about the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59607	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, two minutes of replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59608	I thank you for your word. I was just talking about the principle of material truth. I'd like someone to tell me what's in what I put out the lie. I got a qualification that it was politics. The fact is that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, something was done with the Code of Criminal Procedure, for which we shoot down students in exams. I am sorry that this has happened in my country and in this parliament, but that is also the case no one can dispute, as no one can dispute the fact that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has done what is unacceptable. We remember the change in the president of the court's special court, the change in the Special Prosecutor's Office, at the time of the process of killing Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Not from a political, legal, human, moral point of view, it is inadmissible, which was done by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I'd like someone to tell me I'm wrong and prove it didn't happen. I'm sorry, that's what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59609	National MP Milos Aligrudic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59610	So I'm going to tell you that you're wrong, simply because we're talking about important things here, not the flat-rates and what you think or how you imagine things were happening. We're talking here about the established facts. The facts are that during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, a system reform was launched in which it was interrupted with practice that prosecutors were appointed by the executive authority, the same ones that were replaced in the way they were set up, the legislative authority changed. So, the fact is that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, people lived better than they do today and the fact is that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, this country and this people had some perspective, which they no longer see. The fact that you, as an alleged opposition representative, do not see these circumstances and these facts, serve you as your qualification in front of the voters. It's not our burden, it's yours. The inventions or structures that you brought out here, about who did what and connected it, especially with the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, is really shameless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59611	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59612	I'm sorry to bother you again, but according to the agenda, I was convinced that today's debate on the Criminal Procedure Act and criminal law and on the functioning of the judicial system in the area of criminal law, not on how the people lived. These can be flat-rates, like this or something. The fact that something has been done or has not been done, that the president of the court has been replaced, that the prosecutor has been changed, that during the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica there has been and how, fortunately, failed attempts to destroy the Special Court. It's facts, it's not politics. Of course, witness associates were killed, so I don't count what was done. No one here can say it didn't happen. Unfortunately, it happened in the state of Serbia. It's notorous facts and it's sad that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59613	National MP Milos Aligrudic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59614	I thought I'd give up on the replica, but again, that qualification that is, in fact, some kind of insidious planting in the assembly debate. You want to make an impression on citizens who are looking at this so it can be that I am Vojislav Kostunica, the DSS or then the government has something to do with killing witnesses. No, you're gonna say you didn't want to say that. Then what were you saying, that she was ineffective in preventing it? Compare this government, which you support today to a pretty good extent, and this is seen through the way you vote in this assembly and how you give the quorum at certain times, when there was a critical situation in this government, and here you can see who's on which side. I only react here because certain words spoken consciously by those spoken have a certain meaning or a certain sound to make an impression. I know, politics is probably all that's allowed when a political opponent attacks, and don't expect to do that, and you'll be left without a replica and no answer to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59615	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59616	What my colleague Aligrudic was talking about are impressions, and what I was talking about are facts. It's two really different categories. I did not say Mr Cvetkovic's government was good, but I said that the government of Vojislav Kostunica was disastrously bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59617	National MP Djordje Milicevic has the word, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59618	Mrs. Comic, respected Mrs. Malovic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, first of all, I want to say that Serbia's clear commitment to gaining EU membership candidate status is. On the way to European integration, one of the most significant segments, one of the most significant preconditions for Serbia to continue the successful path of European integration, is to bring Serbia's judiciary into line with a European, or successful reform of the Serbian judiciary. On the agenda of the current session there is a set of judicial laws: a draft law on criminal proceedings, a draft law on litigation, as well as a draft law on rehabilitation. First of all, we want to ask a question, realizing the importance and importance of the topic we are talking about today, will Serbia round up its obligations by gaining EU candidate status, or how successful it is in this pre-accession phase when it comes to the area of justice and what is more necessary to do in order to round up our commitments to obtain EU membership candidates when it comes to the area of justice? Today we are talking about the draft law on criminal proceedings, which is shown as one of the three laws that we will talk about in the coming days, which should also allow for a different and better quality functioning of the judiciary in Serbia. The law on criminal proceedings, as well as the draft law on litigation proceedings, are essential laws on procedural proceedings before courts, and this has already been discussed. And these two laws, along with the law on the executive procedure that seems to have come into force in September, are the reasons for expectations and are the basis for expectations that the judiciary could function in an absolutely different, more complete and quality way. Of course, we support the objectives of procedural laws, the acceleration of the process and the more efficient judiciary, i.e. increasing efficiency. Among other things, it is one of the essential reasons why justice reform has entered Serbia. We feel that we need to speak openly about efficiency, the protection of people's rights in the process, and the quality. Because each of these three segments can in a bad way affect the legal order. We need to do one analysis of the methodologies that have been verified and that are very real and it's very important that we do it as soon as possible. It is therefore doubtless that the adoption of a new criminal code is one of the most important newspapers in the judicial reform process and criminal procedural legislation in Serbia. The papers provided for in the proposal for this law, as among other things, should include us in the order of countries which are in one modern way, but at the same time in accordance with the legal order, resolve the issue of criminal and legal procedures and powers, i.e. the responsibility of participants in criminal proceedings. However, it seems to me wrong to believe that the entire system so far has been contrary to European models and anachron, or in general to European practice. For example, the Code of Criminal Procedure has been applied since 1976, with fewer or more changes, which still speaks of the quality of some legal solutions. One of the most significant and major changes in the content of this law is the entirely new role of the public prosecutor in criminal proceedings. Instead of court, the public prosecutor will lead the investigation in the future. Instead of the court, the prosecutor will be carrying out evidence, on a proposal by the parties in the process. Also, the public prosecutor is given new authority and role in the previous procedure. Now the prosecutor, therefore, is handling the previous procedure, he decides to take the criminal prosecution or postpone it. All this gives the prosecutor a whole new role and a huge responsibility for the whole criminal procedure and its ultimate outcome. It seems to us, again, in some ways, when we consider this proposal, that there is no equality in the position of participants in this segment. On the one hand, the prosecutor has a number of options and powers at his disposal, while the accused is not available even in the process. The question of equality in the process is therefore raised. What needs particular attention is that the new role of prosecutors in the investigation is based on the practice of Angolan law rather than on the European and Roman rights on which our legal system relied. This difference is also based on the way the prosecutors choose. For example, in America, the prosecutor is elected in public elections. So in some ways it is contrary to our practice and legal order. The burden of responsibility of the prosecutor is therefore his new legal authority, that the defendant may conclude a plea agreement and a witness agreement with the defendant. By his judgment, he's pressing charges or giving up on her. These powers, which are brand-new and so far unknown, in our criminal-processing legislation mean a great, individual responsibility of the prosecutor, who must be both impartial and unsuspecting, high-moral and with extremely high experience and knowledge. Otherwise, it seems to us that the new prosecutor's role cannot yield positive results. The implementation of these legal provisions will require one serious preparation, the education of the prosecution, which so far has been known only by comparative criminal law. And not only the prosecutor, but the court also gets different powers and different roles in criminal proceedings. The bill introduces a new judge's office - a judge for the previous, investigative procedure and a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions. There is also a newspaper in the evidence process, because, in addition to the evidence actions that have so far been provided for by law, the introductions of samples in the investigation procedure, then the witness protection institute against intimidation, as well as new forms of evidence, special evidence actions involving the use of modern electronic means of surveillance, recording, computer search of data, covert surveillance of communications, etc., are introduced by the Institute of Undercovered Inspector, Secret Tracking, etc. The criminal procedure introduces the use of new technologies, information systems, contemporary and scientific expertise, etc. All of this should contribute more effectively to the conduct of the criminal proceedings, but neither human rights nor the protection of the defendant's position should be forgotten. The question arises – what will be in a specific case the protection of the mechanism from abuse? However, in order to avoid abuses and violations of basic human rights and the rule of law that no one is guilty until proven otherwise, one serious and extremely responsible relationship between the judicial and public prosecutor's functions in the implementation of this law will be needed. In practice so far, it has been present, almost as a rule, delaying proceedings, due to the absence of a party in a non-response procedure, i.e. avoiding a call, so court disputes persisted for years, and very often there has been obsolescence. A newspaper is now being introduced to inform participants, i.e. in delivering written notices, so that the party can be informed and orally, in progress, but also by pointing out the advertising board of the body conducting the procedure, which, among other things, was the case. So here increases the responsibility of the participants in the process. There is another newspaper that should contribute to efficiency, which is to prescribe the possibility of conducting an investigation and against an unknown perpetrator, when there is a reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed. A good solution is also new legal provisions introduced into the Code, and should prevent the delay of the proceedings itself and the elimination of those procedural actions which are delayed. At the end of the line, all these changes should shorten the procedure, but also contribute to the fair conduct of the proceedings and respect for the human rights of the parties leading the litigation. For example, the law provides for opportunities when there are several alternatives to the choice of procedure, i.e. the choice of procedure that is most favourable for a particular participant in the procedure. Therefore, in all stages of the proceedings there are newspapers that need to contribute both efficiency and economicity to the conduct of the criminal proceedings, from investigation to enforcement. This is significant progress, especially when it comes to the fact that criminal and particularly litigation proceedings last for many years and some decades. The legislation also introduced provisions concerning rehabilitation, defined rights that can be exercised before the court, which we see in light of the Rehabilitation Law proposal, which is also on the agenda at this session of the National Assembly. There are also provisions in the proposal for this law which, in our opinion, should be made more clear. For example, a legal provision governing the reasons for the detention of the accused in custody. It must also be specified here what are particularly difficult circumstances for which detention is proposed. Therefore, it should be stated that the multiple perpetrators of serious crimes are already convicted of such acts, and if there remains such an inaccuracies, in our opinion, it may look like punishment before the sentence is imposed, as this measure can be misused in practice. When it comes to an agreement of guilt, we think that this institute is very dangerous, because one who has a great interest, and by nature things are also unreliable, in some sense, very easily manipulated, by someone's order, can present false facts, under the circumstances, which, of course, is not good. So we think it is necessary to introduce a control measure to control the quality of the announcement. The key thing in the implementation of this code, I would especially like to point out, is the capacity of prosecutors to play a key role in criminal proceedings, which he takes over from the court, because so far the court has played a key role in investigating and carrying out evidence, and now that burden falls on the public prosecutor's shoulders. The fact is that the quality of pre-examination and investigations depends on the overall court outcome. So, the prosecutor of this law sort of becomes master and life and death, and that role will have to be performed with honor and responsibility. It'll be big and professional for the D.A. and the D.A., but I'd say a human challenge. We believe, of course, that the state will do everything necessary to train a public prosecutor, or public prosecutor, in the shortest period of time, to train a public prosecutor for this brand-new, but definitely, extremely difficult and extremely responsible job of a participant in the sharing of justice. At the very end, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club, in voting day, will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59619	It's been used for 12 minutes and 20 seconds since the MPs' time. We're finishing today's morning work, since there's only five minutes left, so now I'm setting a break. We will continue at 15.00 hours, with the continuation of the session and according to the business obligation, that the words are given to the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups from less to bigger. Thank you. [[After a break.]] People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon session with a principled review of the bill's proposal. We are in the course of the session when the right to speak is given to the presidents, i.e. the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Further notification that the authorised representative of the ZES MP is a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59621	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am very surprised by this debate today, more precisely by the decision that the debates that are on the agenda today are not coming together. It's something that's unexpected, but in any case it's a good decision that deserves every praise. On the other hand, I am very sorry that I cannot say the same about the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it is an extremely bad legal proposal that deserves serious work. Of course, I'm not just saying this as a representative of the opposition. I'm saying this as someone who is deeply concerned about the sustainability of the judicial system today after all those earthquakes that suffered after the reform, so-called. judicial reform and, of course, re-election. Instead of solving one problem at a time in the judiciary he has over his head, the door is actually opened for new problems and never to stop it. So there is no end to new problems, which we will soon see and when it comes to this bill of criminal proceedings, because in one completely wrong way it regulates what should be the matter of this law that leads to a more efficient, fairer judgment, which should represent its very purpose. I believe that there is no one in the professional public who would say one word of praise for such a bill because the main characteristics and main features of this bill are the full elimination of the principle of truth from the criminal proceedings, the full passivity of the court and the full unfair role of the parties in the procedure that is expected to be fully inferior to the prosecutor himself, and then the clear question arises whether the purpose of the criminal proceedings here is fulfilled and whether justice will be served in this way. Now, evidence instead of the court is being carried out by the parties themselves who are so equal that on the one hand there is a prosecutor who is part of the state's apparatus, who is part of the executive authority and as such in that role can count absolutely on the full support of such a same state apparatus, and on the other hand there is a defendant who can hardly have the right to a wanted defender. Now, what are his chances of success in such a procedure? Well, maybe it's looking-out, if it's a financial power man who can hire good lawyers who will undoubtedly give him the best possible defense, but what if it's a person who doesn't have the basic survival conditions, what if it's a man who doesn't have the privilege of being rich today, and there's more and more of that every day? What is it with a face like that and what are his chances of success in the process? Here it is crucial to the quality of defence provided by the defender and here it is in the most frequent cases related to the price of the same service. It is doubtless and it is certain that only one number and a small number of defendants will have the privilege to hire the best defenders to give him a very high-quality defense, but there will also be a huge number of those who will have no chance of that. Such a defence is no doubt different from what it provides and will be provided by the defender under official duty in the cases provided for by this bill, and we all know this, we have noted when it comes to the debate on the bill of attorney, that the defence provided by the defender under official duty is significantly different from the defence provided by the defendant chosen by the same defendant. Here, in addition to not being motivated by such a defense, there are also inherited problems in practice, which is that costs and rewards for his work by the court are very difficult to pay. I think the court is now, at least that's how it used to be, that they're late for those payments and more than a year. How important the matter of quality defense is best shown on one case by former football star O.J. Simpson, who was cleared of the double murder charge, the murder of his wife and the murder of her lover, simply because the quality of the defense provided by the lawyers who represented him was at an incredibly high level. What happened after that? Then there was the publication of the book by the same defendant, or later released, in which he indirectly admits that he committed the crime in order to admit it in a recent show by Opre Winfrey in fact. So he admitted to killing his wife in self - defense and knew very well that such a crime would not be held accountable because he was being prosecuted for the same crime. That's how important defense is in one case. I'm not saying this because the purpose of criminal proceedings is to avoid the truth, as provided for in this bill, I wanted to point out how important it is that everyone in the procedure has adequate defence. The bill also envisions a prosecutorial investigation that replaces the current judicial investigation it is conducting, has so far managed and will be conducted for some time by the investigative judge. I personally have nothing against the concept of a prosecution investigation and I think it's good and has its advantages in relation to a judicial investigation, but if there are clear rules of conduct. I do not understand why nothing has been done since 2006 to provide material and technical conditions for the security of such an investigation. It's just that we know from the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure that the prosecution investigation is inevitable and that it will have to be introduced into our criminal justice system. The question arises why this issue was not taken into account at the beginning of the reform and why it was not resolved at the time. Today, we'd have a much more relaxed approach to the court's solution to this problem, we'd have some prosecutors, the prosecutors deployed, they'd have adequate hearing rooms, that is, to carry out the entire prosecution investigation. Given how the overall reform of the judiciary has been implemented and how it is implemented, it is no wonder that this issue is within the scope of all the problems we have faced in the reform of the judiciary itself is of little importance and therefore no wonder that it has not been solved. I'll just remind you that some cosmic bill is the number of courts, and therefore the number of prosecutors is reduced to an unreasonable number, which was later seen in practice as a huge problem. Also, after that, the number of judges was found outside the judicial system, and some today did not get a reason why they are not similar to still doing the job. I will point out that there are former judges who have not been given an explanation for such a decision. A later report by the European Commission said it is inevitably undermining itself as a problem of judicial reform with a specific focus on re-election, where it is said it is necessary to revise the overall procedure for unselected judges. It was somehow accepted as an argument, and it went into the process. Afterwards, the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, who also said that the network of courts established earlier is simply not good and that it is mature for change. It just confirms how far the surface has entered the entire reform of the judiciary, how far it has been carried out without any vision and how much it has, I must admit, been carried out without any necessary knowledge. Now we are in real trouble that what this proposal provides for a criminal procedure code, the question is whether it will be possible at all to be respected in time, or whether everything that the bill proposes will be provided in time. I will remind you that the time limit for its application is ordinary, so I say, if there is at all such a kind of terminology, an ordinary terminal, September 1st, if I'm not mistaken, in 2012, and now the question is, will all those conditions that are necessary to bring this code into force be provided by that term? Simply, I have some reservations about it, and now I want to take advantage of Mrs. Minister's presence and ask – do you know where the First General Prosecutor's Office will be moved, since it is understood, and I believe you know that it cannot be in the same building where the court does, because that would make even greater inequality between the parties established by this bill even more pronounced? But these technical questions, I simply leave you to them. I will return to this Code of Criminal Procedure, where I said that the prosecution investigation is something that deserves in any case my positive comment, but if it is clearly determined, if clearly defined, whose aim should be to determine the truth rather than to flee from the principle of unbiased determination of truth. Of course, in order for all of this to be achieved, it is necessary for the main role to be played after the investigation, which is inevitably in the hands of the state prosecutor, to have a court. It is very important for him to decide which evidence is to be presented and which one is not. In various countries that have a similar criminal-processing system as we have, we are told that where the investigation is in the hands of the state prosecutor, the main role of the court must exist after the investigation has been completed. I'm only going to refer you to the criminal-processing system, say, the German or the Austrian criminal-processing system that once represented role models in our criminal-processing concept. The question arises – did the proposer ever come from the exact assumption, when he said that if we have a state or prosecutor's investigation, does it necessarily have to assume this adversial, or party concept of the main investigation? Here, in the bill of law, it came from the fact that it does not exclude one another, or that one necessarily stems from another, which I do not agree with, not only me, but also the professional public, because there are cases and in the largest number of criminal laws, where the prosecution investigation is provided for the prosecutor himself, and later, when the investigation is completed, the main role is taken by the court. I guess the purpose of the investigation itself should be to decide whether or not there are any elements to press charges at all. Now, I believe that none of those who took this bill seriously believe that the prosecution investigation will be impartial and that it will in any way take care of the evidence that comes in favor of the defendant. At the very least, why would that be? On the other hand, we have the defendant, we have his defender, who are now fully independent in gathering evidence, but the question is, will they be able to collect all the evidence necessary to defend the defendant themselves? They won't be able to collect them because there is meaning that the person over whom a certain evidence shop is carried out must give his consent. Will it give its consent, say, specifically in the witness hearing? I don't think it's going to be practically enforceable. Even if it were, then the question arises – before whom, in such a concept, does the witness take an oath, whether it does so in front of the accused or in front of others, if the parties themselves are the main bearers of the evidence process in the criminal proceedings? These are issues that are unfortunately not resolved and I think that here, in a situation where the defendant is unable to take over a certain evidence store on his own, it was necessary to foresee the role of the judge for the previous proceedings, but not in the way provided for in the bill, because it implies that his role is more than exceptional, but that in any case the judge for the previous proceedings should have the obligation and the need to take such an evidence action himself, if nothing is to determine the truth in the procedure itself. You don't have to run from it. At the very least, the procedure itself would be much fairer, it would be more efficient. Then the question arises: What if, by any chance, the public prosecutor and take over the store that the defendant has asked him to do, will he take the correct action, and will he do it impartially? I have a lot of reservations that I doubt it'll be like that. As a result, I believe that in this part of the bill, a greater role was needed for the judge's previous proceedings. Of course, it should not be forgotten that the D.A. is a fact-finding part of the state's apparatus, part of the executive board, and that in his role, he will certainly not be immune to the many pressures that come from that side. Now, the situation at the main search is even more drastic. This is the role of the court, among other things, that he can give the party a warrant to take on certain evidence actions or exclusively to determine them, only when the evidence actions that have been carried out so far have been contradictory. There is no obligation here for the court to take certain evidence actions to prove the truth in criminal proceedings. That no longer interests anyone, it is no longer the subject of this debate today, and that is something that is our greatest regret for this bill. Something that is inconclusive has also been tried here, which is that on the one hand the investigation is offered, to say, that the investigation is entrusted to the state's attorney, and that all evidence carried out in the pre-crisis procedure, or in the investigation, can later be used in the course of the main investigation itself. It's also something that absolutely doesn't have its own justification in criminal-processing practice, even in those typical adversial, let's say, party procedures, like the American system, the investigation isn't formalized. She is in the hands of the police, but rarely any of these investigations can be used later in the course of the trial. Don't forget there's a jury in the American system. We don't have a jury, there's only parties. Today, such a criminal code and a proposal have seen something that should never happen, which is the complete conversion and attempt to turn a criminal procedure into something he is not, which has much more similarities with a paranoid procedure than with a criminal procedure that should look completely different. Because I don't have enough time, I'm just going to briefly point out some other major problems that have been found in this bill and that I'm going to talk more about in the discussion of details. For example, the issue of writing has been dealt with very badly. The issue of using judgmental evidence in the course of the entire criminal proceedings has been dealt with very badly, and the question of the presumption of guilt has been resolved very badly, as there is no longer any presumption of innocence anymore, but is being replaced by the assumption of guilt. About that, since I don't have time, I can't talk anymore, but there will be time to discuss details. At the very end, I can say that this Code of Criminal Procedure is a great deal of shortfalls, huge failures, and, in general, failures, and that is why it would most entirely be that he withdraws from the congregation procedure. I don't think he's sure, as he's conjectured, he's not going to provide an exact verdict, and without an exact verdict, there's no good justice. For the judiciary, we know what condition he's in. It's after so-called. reforms and re-elections, which are in fact placed upside down, so threatened that they can believe in it and believe only those who are invited there to share justice, if that is even possible today. I believe that such a bill contributes to further compromise of criminal proceedings and in order to simply avoid it, it is necessary that it withdraws from the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59622	Ljiljana Miladanovic, an authorised representative of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59623	The respected presidency, respected ministers, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which lies ahead of us, should, in the opinion of the promoter, aim at reducing the crime rate, then, a more effective trial and more consistent protection of human rights. I am rightly doubtful that it cannot meet any of these objectives, and for that I state the following arguments. The bill did not go through the necessary professional and general public, and it is a very important legal text. Even the European Commission does not require priority adoption of this law, and therefore it is not clear why it was so hasty. If the promoter thinks it's the same text that the judicial public was familiar with in 2007, then he's wrong, because there are many different solutions ahead of us. Also, there is no explanation why it ever gave up the original proposal. To us from the SNS parliamentary group, the expert public and the people, it's clear why you did it. Because you have waited to withstand the worst judicial reform in the modern history of the planet - set up a number of similar and professional prosecutors, presidents of courts and judges to protect yourself from the sword of justice. You're mistaken, if you think it'll go away. There will be no exemption from the criminal desolation of the economy, links with organised criminal groups and other brutal abuses, including those of the so-called "Crime". By reviewing the decisions of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. The law seems nicely packed, if read in a hurry. Many important things to bring, thinking that this will make Serbia reach EU accession. The current government will tell the people that she has fulfilled everything she has promised. The proposal is not in line with reality. Clearly, the law is passed for the future. In order to be efficient from the first days, the possibilities for realization should be reconsidered. We've been pointing to failures in judicial reform. We've apostrophed the significantly increased costs you manipulate and hide them from the public. We're asking a question -- how do you plan on conducting a prosecutor's investigation with a network like this? It significantly deviates from the police network which plays a very important role in the process. How will the investigation, as one of the most significant stages of the whole process, be effective, when a large number of prosecutors, executives and deputies travel 80 miles from home to office? You will say: The police have authority. Yeah, but we're not. A very important question of quality, because the police with a high or similar school can certainly not do a lot of evidence - searching and entering the apartment, although there have been a lot of complaints from lawyers about legality. What about the police arrest and bringing in the prosecutor at a bad time, for example? Will the police station from, for example, Guce bring in the suspect to the state's attorney who lives in Topoli, and that, in the snow? Or the police from the minister's home Ubb, suspected of leading the prosecutor who lives in Užička Požega? Or is he going to apply that famous provision for a 30-day deadline to inform the D.A.? A series of absurd situations will happen. That is why the law on a network of courts and prosecutors should first be amended, and, of course, annul the entire December 2009 election procedure. The D.A. doesn't have the capacity to conduct an investigation. What was good and what was good, you drove it away. There are very few experienced judges for the previous trial, and a large number of new young deputy prosecutors, some of whom came from public enterprises, insurance, businesses and the like. I'm sure they won't be able to conduct the investigation. The trial within a reasonable time frame will be even further, a dark number of crimes far greater, and not only because of the predetermined grudges, because and now the real reports we get from honest unscared judges and prosecutors and citizens, suggest that the trials have never been slower. It'll be slower because there's no acceleration mechanism. So far we've had a delayed pursuit of so-called. the settlement and the like, but how much it's applied and what it's done. There are no sanctions for disrespect, and deadlines are imprecise. The plea agreement is well imagined, but there is no explanation or research, and we show why it is proposed unlimitedly. communication for all criminal acts. Why not for crimes up to 12 years, like in the current text? The famous folk singer case has created a serious suspicion in this institute. It is now proposed that, for example, the prosecutor settle with Saric. There is no excuse either for what the institute does not provide for which actions the prosecutor may give up, or how long it will take, and what it will look like to negotiate with the defendant and the defendant. Why is the application deadline delayed for 1.9.2012? Are there any material and technical conditions for application? No court, of course, and the D.A.'s office, except for the special one, no video or tone recording. The D.A. doesn't have the money to pay for an expert. Speaking of expenses, the provisions in the proposal are unscheduled. What about the costs of the investigation that are being suspended, i.e. why it is stated that the court, i.e. The President of the Court, deciding on the costs when he's in this situation and doesn't need to know that there's been an investigation? The SNS parliamentary group therefore proposes to withdraw this law from the procedure and its basic audit, with of course a reasonable deadline for the professional public to make its remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59624	The time spent since the time of the parliamentary group's representative is seven minutes and 25 seconds. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word in this part of the session? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59625	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, the new solutions offered in the Code of Criminal Procedure do not give assurance that this will be a criminal procedure in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with international agreements ratified by Serbia and other states. The SRS has numerous objections to the proposal and project of this Code. In addition to a number of modifications to the existing provisions of the Code, more unsuccessful, which we will show in the amendments than successful. The proposal provides for a number of new provisions which we have not had in the current code so far. Among them, special attention deserves provisions on the new organisation of the previous procedure and on the procedural protection of witnesses. The most extensive newspaper proposed in the proposal is the transition to the new type of previous, i.e. the investigation procedure. In the process of adopting a new law on criminal proceedings, the very serious undertaking has not yet been subject to the necessary conditions. In the process of building a rule of law, on yet unstable political occasions, with a still unreformed public prosecutor's office and police, whose organisation is still based on ideological criteria, an investigative judge, although technically unsupervised and less efficient, is a safe authority to conduct an investigation and an incomparably better protector of human rights and rights than any executive body and body of government. In our case, political opportunities are still unstable, human rights are internationalised, and especially after the ratification of the European Convention on their protection, so there is a legitimate concern that executive-government authorities could often abuse powers if these laws were given to them under the current circumstances. Our country has agreed that the decisions of its authorities are subject to the control of the European Court of Human Rights, which was the basic reason for the introduction of an investigative judge. Under the conditions of extreme international control, all state authorities are obliged to be equally careful and careful towards the citizen and his human rights. Nevertheless, the new criminal investigation organisation should not be approached hastily before the question of whether the change has really come. In particular, it is objective to determine whether all the necessary conditions are created for such a transformation of the criminal procedure, not only politically, but also for the organisation of the state services to accept the investigation, in particular whether the public prosecutor's office is organised humanely and technically ready for such a large enterprise? Of course, the question is whether this bill has prepared a normative basis for moving to a new model of criminal investigation sufficiently studied, acceptable and adequate? In the proposal, the proposed model of the investigation process consists of two interrelated phases, previous investigation and investigation. A previous investigation is conducted when there are reasonable suspicions that a crime has been committed and until the perpetrator is yet known. It takes evidence and others, e.g. detention, but which have the force of proof in further criminal proceedings, i.e. A court ruling may be based on their results, which is absolutely unacceptable. These actions are taken in the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, as a rule by a public prosecutor, who can trust them with internal affairs authorities. That's what's very dangerous. As a rule, by the public prosecutor's office, individual evidence activities in the previous investigation are carried out by internal affairs authorities on their own – temporary confiscation of cases, search of the apartment, and under certain conditions they are given the authority to exercise insight and determine the skills that does not suffer the delay. The investigation is being conducted by a competent public prosecutor, according to your proposal, on his own, but for issuing orders to search the apartment and person, orders for temporary confiscation of matters and orders for the autopsy and exhumation of the corpse, an investigative judge has been authorised upon a proposal from the public prosecutor. However, this too, according to the SRS, is absolutely unacceptable. The provisions of the proposal show that evidence actions are taken in the investigation, such as the hearing of the accused, the insight, the hearing of the experts, the search of the apartment, the hearing of witnesses, but there is no record of whether these actions have power only in the investigation or in the main proceedings. This means, if these actions are taken in an investigative procedure, that tomorrow someone can use them as a basic means of proof, therefore, in a contradictory procedure, so that judgment can be reached on these evidences, which, in our opinion, would absolutely be counter-constitutional. In addition to giving orders to search the apartment and the person, temporarily taking things away, for the autopsy and exhumation of the corpse, a solution to determine the detention, the investigative judge, however, decides on a complaint against the solution to the investigation. On a proposal from the public prosecutor, he imposes disciplinary penalties on some of the participants in the investigation and takes evidence actions that could not be taken in the search. He also carries out other evidence, on a proposal from the public prosecutor and other authorised prosecutors. Injured as a prosecutor, he is the only one who can ask him to conduct certain actions. Before the indictment is filed, the provisions of the proposal for a previous investigation and investigation are difficult to assess as satisfactory. They have neither the essential nor the legal and technical deficiencies that the SRS points to. The actions of the previous investigation should be essentially informal police reconnaissance, and that, Madam Minister, is your case in France, Germany and Italy. Taking these actions should not even be regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it is already governed by the Police Act. Do you agree, Madam Minister, with that? I think we should, and you have in mind and that fact which is the authority of the police under the Police Act. Therefore, these actions are taken under the official duties of the internal affairs authorities, but it should be foreseen that these authorities also take over at the request of the public prosecutor, who is required to carry out his duties. The previous investigation shall not be opened by any formal decision against which the person under consideration would have the opportunity to use a legal remedy and which shall have no consequences for that person and, even less so, the hearing of the witnesses and the suspect from that stage of the proceedings may be treated as formal proceedings, and even with evidence of force in the future proceedings. There is no real need for these hearings, because right behind this informal procedure is a formal investigation in which all this can be done on a regular basis. In these preliminary reconnaissances, it is enough to collect information and collect other police actions, aimed at detecting the crime and the perpetrator, and the person to whom this procedure is being conducted does not need to know. The hearing of witnesses and suspects, except by the public prosecutor, for the purpose of making a decision to open an investigation, is absolutely out of the question. Those powers should not be given to the authority of the administration. So, Madam Minister, there is no need in the new model of the previous procedure to reflect today's pre-criminal procedure, and to make it even more formal than it has ever been. The only thing that was allowed was to hire an investigative judge to take those evidence actions that could not later be taken. It is not clear what is understood by the proposal for this law as the concept of criminal proceedings and when it begins. The actions and measures of the previous procedure may be left to the administrative authority. So, to the administrative authority, but only when they separate themselves from the decision on freedoms and rights of citizens, which in the rule of law belongs only to the court. That's why every judicial investigation has to be torn into two. The authorities of the administration cannot be trusted only to take investigative actions in an operational sense, and the court must be left to approve and control the application of the coercion necessary to take those actions. It's legal and there's a guarantee of protection against civil rights. This is the first and most important function of the investigating judge, as it is called in the proposal, which can be called otherwise – e.g. Judge for the previous proceedings or judge for previous hearings, as resolved in some countries in the parallel law criminal proceedings. You can easily see this from a study that, when we were working out the Code of Criminal Procedure in 2000, we were preparing a law adopted in 2001, in which all the powers they have, primarily the police and the authorities of the administration, and whether the actions performed in the previous procedure can be used in a contradictory procedure in the main search. In addition, the investigative judge in the judgmental previous proceedings and when it is necessary to take procedural actions which cannot be repeated in the court's hearing and which are important for the establishment of a court ruling. The proposal, however, gives the investigating judge two more functions. In some cases, it should also be the authority to impose disciplinary penalties and the authority to take over complete investigative actions, and in an operational sense, whose execution is sought by authorised prosecutors, i.e. damaged as a prosecutor, and even a public prosecutor, as predicted. These provisions of the proposal call into question the whole idea of moving on to a new model of the investigation process. If an investigative judge is to conduct one number of investigations, why wouldn't he still lead them all? The problem could be solved by the investigation being completely and not only partially transferred to the public prosecutor's jurisdiction, but over 10-15 years, when conditions arise, as has become impossible to introduce any other form of control that needs to ensure that the public prosecutor does not harm the principle of lawfulness of prosecution, instead of today's subsidiary lawsuit. Therefore, the criminal proceedings involve the trial, the determination of the facts and the application of the right by an independent and impartial court. That's why no part of the trial can be entrusted to other non-judicial authorities. This would, however, happen if, according to the court, the application of law in its verdict was based on evidence carried out by other authorities, I mean the authorities of the administration, therefore, the police and the prosecutor. That is why the evidence actions, as you have baptized them, instead of the evidence that has been taken in the previous procedure, cannot be compared to those taken in the main search. So says the professional public and court practice. That's why the procedural principle, Madam Minister, is the directness of criminal proceedings, because we have the principle of directness here, because they are provided to citizens with the right to cross-examine witnesses who have been heard or, if a statement is given to the police and to the public prosecutor. So, Madam Minister, approximately legal practice is taken from The Hague. In The Hague, the only man to stand up to the American machine and some of its satellites, and this adversarial system of procedural rights, successfully opposes Professor Vojislav Seselj. He could only write the provisions of the law on criminal proceedings that would apply in Serbia, so as not to insult human and fundamental rights. That's why they're holding him, Madam Minister, not nine years old, with false witnesses, just taken all over the former Yugoslavia. Here's the outcome of the procedure. All these witnesses, when they come before Vojislav Seselj and President of the Council Antonetti, are just capitulating and disarmed, the court is established, already seen, the public saw it, that it was liars and false witnesses and bribes because someone in Serbia for political reasons was not responsible for Vojislav Seselj being in Serbia. Mrs. Minister, contrary to this proposal, the principle of the directness of the trial would be almost annulled and destroyed. The supplement is really dangerous. The court would once again become a transmission for verdicts based on evidence prepared by the police. The proposal is a crown principle directly in many other places and in many other ways. The exception is that the council may decide that instead of inviting experts or authorities entrusted with the art, in some cases only read their findings. Madam Minister, we have tabled numerous amendments. Among other things, you suggest in this law that there be a provision that the judge and the court have the right to call on the expert, that he must change his opinion and his findings, and that if he does not act on the order of the judge to change his testimony, he will be punished by a fine of 150,000 dinars. Where's that? Imagine, if he's an expert on the list of artists, from the register that you run, when that expert comes to the judge and the judge gives him a warrant and tells him – you have to change the findings and opinions. How can he change it? You're gonna change it, you didn't do a good job. In what? He doesn't give a specific order what he needs to do. What remains of that expert, to act by order of the court, to prepare the findings and opinions that will suit the judge to make it easier to write the verdict and solve the case. It can't. The artist must face it, as it is in France, Germany, Italy, he must face the defense, to face the defendant. The accused has the right to ask cross-questioning questions, and without that, there is no court or trial. Do you agree with that? I hope you agree, but not enough. The question is how much you've been influenced by some of the people who've been preparing this. These provisions question the proposal for this law and the view of compliance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, particularly with the provisions on the right to a fair trial. Who has a fair trial, if I, as a prosecutor, offer the court evidence that I prepared through the police or personally as a prosecutor and now deliver them to the court, that the court lays down its decision based on false witness statements? The one in Chajetina that the statement, not seen by the defendant, is not seen by the defender, is not seen by the judge and now the prosecutor has said – I agree that you have this statement taken in Chatitina to classify it as evidence, to read and even make a decision on it. Mrs. Malovic, I believe you don't agree with that either. You're a lawyer, you have experience, and you certainly won't let things like this pass and the law be passed. This provision of the Convention provides for a fair trial, and it does not exist if I cannot examine it at the trial of witnesses and experts directly, only if coercion is used. This provision provides for the right of the accused to be seen in a literal sense and to face witnesses in front of the court, not on the street, not in the pub, to bear witness directly. That means you need to see a man who's lying against you, that witnesses are being questioned anyway. Are we taking the rules on the conduct of the UN tribunal's criminal proceedings? Mrs. Malovic, that's exactly what this looks like to me. Our code doesn't fully provide it now, but we are faced with one bitter truth, which the bitter fruits of the Hague tribunal will read in front of Vojislav Seselj... (President: 20 minutes. If you please, just one more sentence. Mrs. Malovic, equality of arms. Can you compare the Brazilian team and the Congoese team? Do you have any idea which party will succeed in the dispute, who will win, 11 players from Brazil, 11 players from the Congo? The state machinery stands behind the prosecutor, and the accused naked as a mouse, he is the one who has to choose the means and defend himself, and he is also under-educated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59626	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, representative of the ZES parliamentary group. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59627	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the new Code of Criminal Procedure should be observed in the context of a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, which certainly includes reform of procedural legislation. We have before us a proposal for a new, more modern and more efficient criminal code, which will represent a powerful means in the fight against organised crime, which will enable us to overcome the problems we have had with the delaying proceedings so far and which is absolutely in line with European standards and bring some new institutes into our procedural legislation. Since 2009, when judicial reform began, both legislative and institutional, exceptional results have been achieved. I think that many of these results are due precisely to the changes we have made in the past period and to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The prosecution has initiated hundreds of criminal proceedings some of them have been completed, they have received signs of their epilogue in court, some of them continue to last. I think that we are all witnesses that it was unimaginable, before the judicial reform of Joca Amsterdam to be convicted and imprisoned, that Andrija Draskovic was convicted after many years, how long it was against him, that all those who consider themselves to be fans were convicted, and in fact they were hooligans. That those who have been characterised as members of extreme groups who have spread hate and violence on the streets of Belgrade have been convicted. Of all procedures, of course, the most significant is against the group and the Darko Saric clan for 3.5 tonnes of cocaine and money laundering. In addition, the 2011 criminal group, so at the end of 2010 the prosecution also initiated 22 cases against other members of crime groups involved in drug trafficking, kidnapping, murder, human trafficking, money laundering and other serious crimes. Currently, an investigation is under way against former Serbian Road Director Branko Jocic, the prosecutor's office of organised crime is conducting a criminal case involving abuses in Kolubara, the trial of Milenko Sarancic, former director of the Zeleznica Serbia, is under way, the trial of persons on the run, Stanko Sutotic, Slobodan Radulovic, former director of the "Ce Market". If we take statistics, we'll see that in 2011, so to the first half, by 50%, the number of criminal acts of corruption has increased compared to 2010. Also, we will see that over 300m euros in assets seized by criminals. Such results would certainly not have been achieved by the prosecution, nor by the judicial authorities if we hadn't started to amend procedural, criminal procedural legislation in 2009 and introduced some new institutes that we are now developing with this proposal and we will continue to make it possible to fight even more effectively against the perpetrators of criminal acts. The significant results the prosecution has achieved over the past period tell us about a high degree of expertise, professionalism and the willingness of the prosecution to act in criminal acts of organised crime. I think that's one of the reasons why this Code of Criminal Procedure shows additional trust, new trust to the prosecution, and we allow the prosecution to have more authority than it had before, but it carries a much greater responsibility with it. We heard today during the debate that the main newspaper in this bill is a prosecutor's investigation. What's a prosecutor's investigation? This means that the public prosecutor is solely responsible for the investigation, he is responsible for the success of the indictment, i.e. the sending of the indictment throughout the proceedings. This means that the prosecutor bears much greater responsibility, which means that the burden of proof is primarily on the public prosecutor and that the court must be neutral and judge on the basis of evidence proposed by the prosecution and the defence. So it's the public prosecutor who has to convince the court that the defendant committed a crime because otherwise he'll be released from the indictment. All this speaks of significantly greater authority of the prosecutor, but the prosecutor's position should also be observed in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, which provides for his criminal and disciplinary responsibility, if he exercises his jurisdiction in an unlegal manner. I want to send a message to the prosecutors in this place, which is that they have to justify the trust that they are told by the adoption of a new Code of Criminal Procedure, that they must always bear in mind that they are responsible and that they will answer if they pursue someone who is not, who is not suspected of committing a crime and, of course, how they fail to prosecute someone who is suspected of committing a crime. In line with the declared fight against corruption and organised crime, the provisions of this law in the work concerning organised crime and corruption will begin to apply as early as January 15th 2012, and this is important if we bear in mind that the prosecution is now responsible for organised crime and for the crimes of high corruption, therefore, when criminal acts of corruption are committed by a person elected by the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say in the end that today we are building a system that is completely resistant to corruption and organised crime, that is, to acts of organised crime, and that is an effective way to fight these monsters, the Code of Criminal Procedure. This modern-day Code will undoubtedly contribute to the construction of a society based on absolute rule of law, and therefore DS MPs in the Serbian Parliament will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59628	Seven minutes spent from the time of MPs' group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group want the word, to use the right in this part of the session? If not, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a written application and with a number of MPs, submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, the New Serbia MP group, the ZES MP group, the DSS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to the part of the session when it comes to MPs and according to the order and according to the application for word in the general search of the Code of Criminal Procedure. First reported for the word, MP Judita Popovic, followed by MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59629	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while listening to today's debate, some of the problems that are actually crucial to the debate on such an important law, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, have been raised. The first question that is raised is whether this bill strengthens legal certainty in Serbia? The second question concerns whether this bill endangers the human freedoms and rights of the suspect, the accused, or the accused, is in any way threatening the criminal proceedings of his refusal? The answers to this question will be given in two stages. The first phase will be when the debate ends both in principle and in particular, when the government decides which amendments will be accepted by the MPs. So when we have the final text of the law to be voted on. The second stage is the one that will follow after the entry into force of this law, the answer will give the application of this law in practice. So only then will we be able to say whether this law strengthens legal certainty and threatens rights and freedoms in any way, i.e. endangering this criminal procedure. Legal certainty is a very important element in establishing the quality of certain draft laws. In the next two weeks, when we discuss four very important laws, we can say that legal certainty will indeed be the main issue when we draw our conclusions, when we talk about both criminal proceedings and public property, as well as about restitution. So if these four laws really respond positively to this ambition to strengthen legal certainty, in this case we will be able to say that to a significant extent the system of values is changing in Serbia and that in Serbia the approach to understanding, functioning of state institutions, and how these institutions accept those standards that we are constantly discussing here when we talk about the EU. The Law on Criminal Procedure gives opportunity and space to ask some specific questions as to whether the law in question is really the kind of newspaper that will significantly improve the quality of the criminal proceedings? Does the law in question strengthen the principles already in place and introduce new principles, does it actually give a new incentive for the development of criminal proceedings in Serbia? The papers themselves mean nothing unless they have a clear and concrete content, unless they are directed in the way they should actually be directed, which is to improve the role of all participants in the criminal proceedings and prosecutors and judges, the judicial council, the accused, the defendant, or the suspect, his defender and all others. The press, first of all, is about prosecutors here. So for the first time, it appears in the Serbian Code of Criminal Procedure that the prosecutor will play a major role in the investigation. So for the first time, the prosecutor gets huge obligations that result in enormous responsibilities. The prosecutor has so far been an important factor in our judiciary and has given a significant amount of attention to the conduct of the proceedings, but he has never been to that end a figure of criminal proceedings. So far, the prosecutor has had opportunities and played a significantly greater role in processing certain crimes, or perpetrators of crimes than is assumed. However, the general public focused on the judges and the judiciary, and somehow the fact that the prosecutor is the one from whom the trial is actually initiated, i.e. from whom the case against someone who committed the crime begins. It was up to the D.A. to see if we'd have any of those big affairs that the public had for months at the end and the finals. The prosecutors also depended on why many of these affairs are lost somewhere in some drawers. It should not be forgotten that the prosecutor has had a certain weight so far, but that weight is changing today, that is, with this legislative proposal, because the role of the prosecutor is much more illuminated. The question arises – is the Serbian prosecutor's office ready to carry such a heavy burden? Can he respond to the demands, expectations and legislators, as well as to the public who expects to be a positive outcome as a result of the adoption of this law in terms of the functioning of the prosecutor's investigation? The prosecutor, as an essential element of criminal proceedings, must be only one of the factors of the case and in no case may be favored and must play the same role and importance before the court, as the other party has and in that case the criminal proceedings shall be significantly moved towards one centre, as regards the judge. The judge will be the one, he will lead the proceedings, he will be the arbitration officer, the neutral party, the one who listens to both of them and decides on the basis of all the evidence provided, what decision he will make, or whether he considers that the facts are clearly established and clearly proven by the person on whom the burden of proof lies, which is the prosecutor's side. You will allow, there are very big changes to practice so far, and to a great extent, it narrows down discretionary opportunities and the prosecution and the court, when things are, or when criminal proceedings resulting from a certain decision are being conducted. For this reason, this member is 16. The bill and how significant, in particular the position of the 4th member, which clearly states that the court can base its decision only on the facts of which it is certain. So this is a very big change in the quality of the criminal procedure, and it is practical to determine whether this change is really positive in the Serbian criminal procedure. The new principles proposed by this draft law, the principle of a reasonable trial, the principle of economicity, the principle of proportionality, as well as the possibility of influence on the court, are of paramount importance, given that they significantly alter the present approach of the court to the accused, or accused, as well as the overall time spent to conduct the criminal proceedings. It doesn't matter if the criminal procedure is to be conducted in a few months, whether it will be conducted for years, and that, among other things, is the pressure on the one against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. So when it comes to a reasonable period, it gives us a chance to have a much more effective judiciary, a much faster trial in criminal matters. When we talk about proportionality, it's also a newspaper that raises the standard of criminal conduct, which is actually of the utmost importance for the one against whom the defendant is being charged, or for the defendant, because he is always seen as choosing what is least restrictive on the defendant or accused. A court that has a role to play in the investigation of only some kind of arbiter, or someone who decides whether the prosecutor has done his job well and whether the prosecutor has in some way compromised the rights of the defendant, or the suspect, in this case, takes the role of the suspect, or the defendant. It's also one newspaper and that's what's also in the interest of the person who's being prosecuted. So the whole debate today can actually focus on the prosecution investigation. However, the prosecution investigation is just one of the newspapers in this entire Corps of New Solutions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and there is no way that some of the proposals under the law or envisaged solutions will speed up the process that will raise the quality of the trial and also raise the quality of the protection of human rights as far as possible in one criminal procedure. It is not good that enough space has been left for certain arbitration for certain possibilities to be interpreted too widely by individual provisions, i.e. solutions to the same views of detentions. It is not good that the prosecutor was given the opportunity to assess to what extent some of the witnesses were at risk when investigating these special proceedings involving organised crime, or war criminals, that he was given the opportunity not to even invite the suspect or his lawyer during the witness hearing. So all of this actually indicates that this is just one step, that there are good solutions, that there are no apriors to be afraid of newspapers, but that there are still a lot of amendments to this law as well as other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59630	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, respecting everything that my colleagues are before me and what my colleagues are going to say after me, I must say that I have seen that mostly speakers are people who are professionally engaged in the law and indeed their word and their judgment of this law to me is precious to me. I am someone who, in this case, will speak from the visor of an ordinary citizen who can come, as well as most citizens, therefore, under the influence of this law, and on this side I am very interested in that law to allow not only efficiency but also more justice for anyone who comes under the influence of this law. What is presented today as an objection and what can truly be supported is precisely this new different role of prosecutors, greater powers, what can be doubted, certainly, under the same conditions or at least under roughly equal conditions, and the prosecutor will be able to perform evidence, because if we look at how they relate, especially in criminal proceedings, defenders on official duty, and this is in those cases where people are really the most vulnerable and material and in any other way very easily able to disprove some procedure purely in order to satisfy justice and to demonstrate justice. Then, considering that motivation by the defense attorneys on official duty, we see that they are not exactly in a position to consume the justice that the state is obliged to provide for every citizen equally. So what's been put here as an important observation is that in the prejudgment of innocence, the prejudgment of guilt is now assumed. Until now, it has been claimed that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, and now it will be that everyone is guilty until proven innocent. If we're going to logically observe it then we're going to see that that's a pretty serious difference when someone comes into a situation to be hit by a criminal code. What I am really interested in as a citizen is the problem of detaining and treating inmates and the length of detention. So far, it has been very common for people in custody until proven guilty, to be released from custody and to initiate a procedure for compensation for such a procedure, that the state must pay off, so it would be interesting to see how much damage has been done so far and who is responsible for such a thing, because it is the prosecutor who represents the state. What we expect from this reform of the judiciary which has not proved itself to be the most efficient of all is that citizens have one fairer judiciary, one impartial judiciary and that they can at any time feel that the state in which they live is equal and just. Otherwise, if we do not keep this in mind and if this law is not in the course of the adoption of amendments, there are important changes in some members, i.e. amendments that significantly change some members and allow justice to be made available to all ordinary citizens in whose name I speak, then we will be in a position to often remember that the sharing of justice in Serbia is somewhat like the best Westerns when justice was shared by Gary Cooper and John Wayne, and we do not want to do so. We want that solicitation to have that steady sauce for anyone who needs to be judged. So, such a bill, I think my colleague Srdjan Spasojevic, who explained it very professionally, will not support New Serbia in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59632	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59633	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with great care I have followed all the debates of distinguished colleagues and the evaluation of the SPS MPs is that we have one reform law, a very important law for the stability of a society, for the fight against crime, a very important law for the respect of fundamental human rights. We think that the defence minister who has indeed made extraordinary reforms in his sector and the Ministry of Justice in this reform work is one step at a time, according to us, the best ministry and indeed the minister and her team have taken on a very important job and it is certain that there are both political and financial and organised crime interests to oppose the existing situation which is largely chaotic. Mr Nenad Konstantinovic has spoken since the reform of the judiciary, which all criminal structures have been processed, who everyone who was once untouchable now in prison. We believe that this Code of Criminal Procedure will also be in that spirit and the law of litigation. In an informal conversation with colleagues from all parliamentary groups, they said there are no more serious objections to the very text of the law on litigation. It seems to me that a number of amendments have been passed to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I don't see any important changes here either, and I wouldn't be someone who, I say, would hold one side. I think there is, to a large extent, a legitimate concern of distinguished colleagues who have submitted amendments to the maximum protection of the position of the suspect, or accused or accused in criminal proceedings, and in that part I recognize indeed one good intention. The very fact that the criminal proceedings with us on average lasted between three and five years, that it was the right to trial within a reasonable period of time most often trampled, that we had an inherited procedural criminal law that had been without some major changes in application for decades, and the fact is that the new time really required a modern criminal code to be passed. Of course, if we had a court that was in some way an extended hand of the prosecution, even if, for example, the physical building of the court and the prosecution were shared together by the prosecutors, the maltenes were daily in these informal communications and agreed -- let's see how much more evidence we can find, to construct some evidence building so that the indictment would survive in the legal force and that the defendant in the criminal proceedings would be punished, which we don't think is the state's interest. The interest of the State is to determine the material truth. The state's interest is not to let the state, if it's a prosecutor's office, and it is one of the branches of the government, get in the way of criminal proceedings. Of course, with the physical separation of the prosecution buildings and the court buildings, there is a clear intention that such types of contact would no longer be the very fact that the prosecutor who once, I mean, until the adoption of this code, sat in his office, went to the investigative judge, represented the indictment on the main search and he had a rather lax and rather smudged position. The police and the court, on official duty, were supplying evidence, and the prosecutor was someone who was stationing. Now, as in the litigation procedure and in civil litigation, the burden of proof on the person representing the indictment is, so the prosecutor, after the entry into force of this code, will have to disintegrate himself, to collect evidence in the same way as the one against whom the indictment has been brought, and the court is, of course, in such a relationship of power in a more neutral position, which is good for a fair trial. It is certain that, since the prosecution investigation is an absolute newspaper in our legal system, there are also legitimate concerns as to what the consequences in practice will be. It is good that there is a different distribution of responsibility for carrying out evidence in the dispute, that there are judges for the execution of criminal sanctions, that we now have an objection damaged directly by the senior public prosecutor during the proceedings, which was once unimaginable, that we have an extension of cases of mandatory defence, and I think that in good intention many colleagues have indicated that, especially among people who are ignorant and poor, and the subject of prosecution, that even that compulsory defence, that they must have a mandatory defender, they should be seriously considered. Here, for three and a half years in this assembly, I have represented the view that in both art and criminal and litigation proceedings there must be a counter-expert, there must be someone now called an expert advisor in the Code of Criminal Procedure, regardless of whether the expert advisor is an expert assistant, an expert assistant. In any case, it is a person who will contribute to the determination of material truth. When it was the Law on Judicial Experts, the Minister promised that this provision, since my amendment was rejected, would be entered into the Code of Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code, it was the Minister who kept it, but not to be someone just my personal endeavor, I will say what it means in practice. Most of the time, according to the ensuing schemes, the judges chose the artists. Artists have always been between artists objectively, professionally and impartially, so for years they started representing one side. This led to the fact that all the judgments had this type of phrase, that type of reasoning, of which all those who for the sake of such skill were deprived in some right of their own, were really sick of it. The finding was made by a professional and impartial expert, whose objectivity the court had no reason to suspect. The court will now, instead of accepting all the nebuloses written by a judicial expert, have to be a judge in the right sense, it will have to take into account the expert findings of the expert advisor and how it can properly explain that the verdict would survive. This is a major contribution to the determination of material truth both in criminal and in litigation proceedings. It seems to me that I've expected everyone to pay attention to this significant institute, because, let's not forget, in a large number of cases, the judgments are based on the findings and opinions of the experts. It is good that the investigation and investigation have been separated, that there is an objection of the suspect and the defendant, and directly to the senior public prosecutor, and that a senior public prosecutor can give the lower public prosecutor a mandatory instruction that he must act on, which is again a new institute, which is once again a new quality and again a fact that no one has pointed out today. The defendant's response to the indictment can be brought under an institute that already existed through the indictment's complaint. It is good that there is also a preparatory hearing for the main search without public presence, precisely because the main search would be as simple as possible and as quickly ended. Good news on legal medicines is also good, as so far the application for protection of legality could only be filed by the competent public prosecutor, but it was by the rule in case someone had a good variety of connections with the public prosecutor, and then the public prosecutor was interested in the case. Hundreds of thousands of these initiatives can also be talked about so that the D.A. makes a claim for protection of legality in cases where the law is severely violated, but that the prosecutor didn't do it. These are now the rights that belong to the parties in the dispute, which is a new quality. What will certainly be the subject of the debate in particular and what I will try to make my contribution to, is what I mentioned earlier, the mandatory defence, especially in cases of an ignorant and poor party or a defendant, a suspect. Then, a testimony through a written witness statement from particularly sensitive groups and witnesses who are threatened by intimidation. I think it's good institutes, but it's also good fear of some mass application of these institutes and their abuse. The defendant, a lawyer who has five years of experience for crimes over 10 years, for which a prison sentence of over 10 years has been threatened, I don't know how much this institute has suffered its justification, precisely because of the fact that lawyers had also passed a professional exam and certainly prior vocational education, etc. Is this about depriving human rights lawyers who don't have five years of work experience? It is certain that there will also be talk in the discussion of the details of the trial, whether the judge is an individual, if we refer to many institutions of Angolan law that have been brought to life in this criminal code, and they are good institutes, and we also know the role of a jury in Anglo-Saxon law, whether it is good to remain that the judge judges a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison is threatened for up to eight years. With all my thoughts on the issues, and it seems to me, without any sharpness, no cheer, no praise, indeed, for the extraordinary normative activity of this ministry. I want to end by saying that the evaluation of us from the SPO, because we followed this criminal code, and it's not true that there was no public debate, it lasted three years. In the Working Group, in addition to the ministry's representatives, representatives of the Bar Association, the professional public, professors of law schools were. The Council of Europe and the OSCE and anyone who says that he did not participate in the public debate, or that there was no public debate, has been uninformed, as it is certain that there has been no public debate unless such information is available. That's why, Madam Minister, go ahead. Every time you come with such good legal proposals in the Assembly, you will have the support of SPO MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59634	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59635	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although so far in the National Assembly has been a practice to bring everything together and in one of the previous discussions we have had the opportunity to see that the Law on Lawyerry and Executive Procedure has been joined. We are now in a position to separate the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution. But, looking at the matter, you were absolutely able to bring together a debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure and a litigation. Indeed, two litigation procedures are joined together. Today's debate, if anyone really knows the matter we're discussing, just points to the fact that there is a serious shift in the interest and goal of the state when it comes to criminal law. Looking at the prosecutor's position, looking at the court's position, looking at the position of the defendant and the damage to the proceedings, especially the court's position, is it not clear what is the fundamental interest of the state? Is the primary interest of the State a criminal prosecution, or is it the fundamental interest of the State to pass judgment on the basis of established material truth and according to positive law? It completely outweighs the impression that the state's interest is only criminal prosecution. With the debate within this time period that I have as a member of the DSS parliamentary group, I will point out exactly these problems and contradictions, as well as the fact that Serbia is entering criminal-processing legislation. We've heard here many times today that so-called "introductions." A prosecutor's investigation. It's not a disputed prosecution investigation, it's a disputed court position. That's what disrupts the whole concept that's set up here. The court may not in criminal proceedings be brought into the position it holds in the litigation procedure. In the litigation process, parties in the process have different interests, we will talk about it tomorrow, but also different positions, strength than they have parties in criminal proceedings. This is what my colleagues talked about today very specifically and extensively. In that situation, the court must play an active role in the main search. He's got exactly the same thing they have in litigation. That's where we get into a series of problems that will arise in practice. When it comes to the court's position and the matter of material truth, we are here today talking about this, that this is not the purpose of criminal-processing law being defined by the Code of Criminal Procedure. The aim is to get into a situation and to pass judgment based on party disposition and behaviour. The criminal procedure is this type of procedure that directly affects fundamental human rights. It takes public presence and a way to control the whole process. We have a situation here that a judge is judging an individual for crimes where a sentence of up to eight years is threatened. So the judge is an individual who's in a passive position. It's an absolutely unacceptable position. Furthermore, the judge himself in criminal proceedings, as defined by the Code of Criminal Procedure here, does not have that kind of initiative to establish material truth and propose new evidence. Moreover, in the course of the main search itself, even though it is an advantage here, it will be in a position to do, in the part in which it is located, damage other persons in the process. Let's say, for the damaged one. Although it is said here that the advantage of the situation is damaged, which he will now have, by ruling him on his property-law claim under the same procedure, so he won't have to go to litigation. But in a situation where the court is limited to evidence collected by the prosecutor or accused, to what extent he will be able to bring a fair verdict and protect the interests of the injured in criminal proceedings, only to speed up and avoid that litigation. You will see that there will be many greater injustices, but that I am damaged says: well, condemn that accused and let me go to trial and finish the job, and bring out all the evidence that I consider to be and propose to the court, in order to achieve my interest. The essence of the whole story is that the court, in this passive role, cannot in the best possible way protect the crucial interest of every society, and that is, if convicted, condemns it on the basis of the correct and fully established factual situation, in a situation where the court has the opportunity under official duty to propose and collect evidence. As far as the prosecution itself is concerned, we have talked here several times about the first issue that is controversial at the moment, which is the issue of the prosecution's capacity to take on such a very important role. The reform of the judiciary, the reduction of the number of prosecutors, the accumulated cases the prosecution now has to deal with, the question is, can the prosecution now, with these facilities, take an active role in the investigation? Second, today we have not received an answer at any time why the investigation and investigation process are being separated? We didn't get that answer at all for a moment. We see neither in the processive nor when we look at norms, the explanation of such an act. The biggest problem, and that's what practice is and what you can see, when things get deeper into the judiciary, is that by retaining the provision that the police will collect evidence and that these evidence will, in fact, be spilled into the prosecution's order to launch an investigation, and then, to press charges, and then, these same evidence will be dragged through the investigation. To the greatest extent possible, the bad situation we have will remain, which is that what the police are finishing, 90% will be the verdict. It's a key problem that we have in this law. It was absolutely justified to point out criticism that the entire state apparatus behind which the prosecution stands would be able to collect evidence against the defendant. Let's not get carried away by the story of the prosecution's objectivity here. We can talk about it in principle, but in practice, a system like this will put the prosecutor in a position to have the only interest in solving the case. When he presses charges, he has to win the case. It's that practice we have in Anglo-Saxon law. There's a jury out there who decides about guilt. It's a different story now that we're getting into and what's gonna happen. The suspicion is backed by the fact that the possibility of concluding a plea agreement is widened. Now the prosecution will have incredible opportunities to press the defendant to make a deal. The whole machine that exists behind him, he's going to use it now, because the prosecutor is thinking about his career. Let's not talk here outside of life and beyond reality. And he's gonna have someone doing stats tomorrow, so he's gonna see how many of his indictments have passed. He will now be in a position, in every way possible, to come into a position to solve the case if he suspects he can push him through court, to resolve him with a plea agreement. You will be witnessing various settlements and various situations. As for the defendant himself, of course, it's unacceptable that the prosecution has the possibility of hearing witnesses without the defendant's presence here. I don't see why that norm is held here. That absolutely puts the defendant in an even more unequal position. Please, there is no need to write declaratory norms that do not conform to life. We can write that it all looks nice, but now that it's the state's authorities, the apparatus will side with the defendant, the defendant and help him collect all the evidence, and all the evidence is against the prosecution's interests. It's not life, it doesn't drink point in real life. It can write, but it's not gonna happen. It's better not to fool ourselves, let's say – it's not real. The prosecution will have the opportunity to have access and help to all the defendants and that's a fact and that's how it is in reality. The only protection so far has been the active role of the court, which you are now disfellowshipping here. In the matter of power of attorney, and who can be a defender, this norm that's been threatened for over 10 years if he's a lawyer for five years, I don't really know who suggested it to you. What's the reason for that? And lawyers specialize. There are a lot of lawyers here. You have a lawyer who passed one law firm as an intern where all lawyers are guilty and he can have full capacity and ability as soon as he passes a judicial exam to sign up to the phone book to represent. You've got lawyers who've been litigators all their lives, and maybe no search has left, and they've had ten years of experience. What are they qualified to be defenders for? The very fact that they've had five years of experience, but maybe they haven't been on any search. I don't see what the motive of this is. Then you'll have to work it out, and you'll have to introduce a specialization within the framework of the bar, and then let's say -- those lawyers who are mostly involved, dominantly, or are exclusively in criminal law. The defendant's position is further complicated by another provision. You've introduced here the possibility that a second-degree court of appeal is solely inspecting the correctness of the established facts in a first-degree verdict. You've brought a situation that didn't exist before, that can be ruled against the defendant's harm, although he alone has filed a complaint here. That's absolutely unacceptable. It destroys all possible principles that have been so far. Turns out I'm being charged because he filed a complaint can put himself in a more unfavourable position. On the side of the fact that you can't change legal qualifications, you can't change the level of punishment, you can change the facts. It's a change and it could be worse. I don't know where you found that reason to lock up again. We're going back to the time that we used to be, that the public's disturbances determine detention. We thought we were past that time. But at the same time, the right to guarantee is extended. It will be very interesting in the case of the guarantee who will be able to avoid detention, although there are the first three points in 211, but these four are, as I understand it, brought to the SE or European Court of Justice's suggestion that because of the public's anxiety, someone is being detained. As far as delivery is concerned, it can also be made a series of objections, to whom everything is delivered, can be received by the neighbor and everyone else, so it's not only the goal of delivering, but it's simply the goal of solving the matter fairly and in the right way. Thus, a series of problems and a series of major gaps. Yes, a prosecutor's investigation, with the removal of this very important and great imbalance created by the prosecutor's position in the investigation, but, with the court's strengthening, in stressing the role of the court as a protector of the state's fundamental interest to be ruled on by established material truth and to have the verdict passed in accordance with the law. It's not the state's interest just to be prosecuted. The interest of the state must be truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59636	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59637	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a good and important proposal. It is easy for us as MPs by segments to attack individual members, or proposals from members of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and to propose improvement. It was difficult to make a comprehensive bill proposal in 608 members and keep the whole text in the right direction of an honest fight to achieve the most significant human rights and to improve the degree and speed of detection of crimes committed and their perpetrators and the effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation, all in order to deter criminal offences. A task force that many experts have entered, and it is the holders of judicial functions of all degrees and species, courts and public prosecutors, lawyers, law professors, all of them have tried to today, and here, today we are at the opportunity of, considering this bill. I have to say I come from law school, because since 1985, I've been in law enforcement, so 26 years ago, I've been actively engaged in this matter, among other things, in criminal law. It was in 1985 that I was able to consider the Law on Criminal Procedure from then on to this day to face both good and bad solutions in the postgraduate studies with Professor Zagorka Jekić. The fact is that it is very difficult to reconcile, on the one hand, the need to carry out the procedure quickly, and not only in Pancheva where I had experience both in the municipal or primary and in front of the county or higher court, but also in front of other courts in Serbia, we witnessed insufficient efficiency in the work, and, among other things, criminal courts. I must say that the parties were also damaged in the situation where the existence of a crime was determined and there were no elements of criminal responsibility for any individual. Among other things, at that time, I was just about to get to a first-degree verdict after about five years of conducting the proceedings before an earlier district court and now a higher court and arrived, the truth in the first degree, to the acquittal. That's exactly what I see the need to speed up the process and prevent those consequences from being unwarranted for a lengthy period of detention, in this case for acquittal, 27 months was an unwarranted detention, at least according to a first-degree verdict. So that's why, in order to prevent these consequences, I think we need to get to an extremely high-quality criminal code. In any case, one of the most important newspapers in this Code of Criminal Procedure is the introduction of a prosecution investigation and a party procedure. There's been a lot of words about the D.A.'s investigation right now. In many segments legal solutions have been attacked. But, on the other hand, I must say, in the discussions of some of our colleagues, it was mentioned that the suspect or accused or accused is not sufficiently protected, that the rights of the defendant are not sufficiently protected. Each of us, looking at legal solutions, was in a position to submit amendments. This very good text of the law, I was able to try to fix with 11 amendments, stressing that Article 202 which I believe should be corrected in some way, that we have the opportunity to do so on the Justice Committee. Anyway, I have to say that there are a lot of good solutions in the law that can correct any kind of irregularity in the context of the prosecution's investigation. There is a possibility and the bill defines the role of the judge for the previous trial, precisely in the event of the need to correct something in the prosecution's investigation. It has been defined how there is a possibility that during the proceedings, it is precisely the judge for the previous proceedings, the intervention. Again, I must say, what has not existed so far has been introduced. So far, we have had a complaint against the indictment and after resolving the case against the indictment, it has moved towards a dispute over the indictment. At this point, we have, under the bill of law, a response to the indictment, on the basis of which the court's answer is greater, as set out in Article 21(4), may decide. There is an opportunity to appeal to this particular solution, directly to the higher court. I think it's something new that extends the possibility of parties in the process, that even at that stage of the procedure intervenes and corrects some kind of mistake. So far, we have had an emergency legal remedy for the protection of legality. So far, the prosecutor's role has been to apply for legal protection, I'm not talking about initiatives to apply for legal protection. At the moment, the bill allows the party to play the role of the party itself, for example, the defendant in certain situations can initiate a legal requirement. That couldn't have happened by now. In any case, it was difficult to reconcile all these requirements set before members of the task force, to reach such a quality text of the law. Some new institutions have been introduced or are more detailed. Among other things, a particularly sensitive witness and a rule and an examination of a particularly sensitive witness has been defined. True, there is a need, in my opinion, to re-evaluate the 300th and see if there is an opportunity for certain adjustments to be made, on the one hand, not to allow the procedure to be carried out quickly and efficiently, but, on the other hand, to try to maximise the rights of the defendant and the defender, possibly accepting that by the rule, only the absence of the accused from certain stages of the evidence process. I think that we should be able to listen to each other and put any useful suggestion into the bill, to get to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will be for example and Dick not only in Serbia, but also in the environment. The colleagues have already talked about the institution, the rights and duties of an expert advisor. I think it's a good thing it's defined this way. My colleagues spoke about the institution of guarantee, and I am just saying that in Article 202, I believe that, especially with regard to Article 211, certain corrections should be made. Article 202 defines that there is the possibility of a guarantee being made, not only in the event that the defendant is hiding or cannot determine his identity or in the capacity of the accused, clearly avoids coming to the main investigation and if there are other circumstances that indicate the danger of escape, but it is defined that a guarantee can be laid down and if a criminal offence imposed on him has been imposed on him for more than 10 years, i.e. a prison sentence for over five years for a criminal offence with elements of violence or a sentence of a first-degreed court has been imposed on him for five years or a more severe sentence, and a way, execution, etc. They've brought a public disturbance. On the one hand, we can talk in public anxiety, there is an open opportunity to represent both views. I could kind of think about putting up a guarantee if a five-year sentence or something was imposed for over five years, in a situation like this while waiting to go to a prison sentence, but I don't think there's any excuse for a bail. And aside from talking about public harassment as an institution. With regard to certain other solutions in the bill, I must say that it is very difficult in these few minutes to refer to the entire law that is in 608 members. This text should regulate a large area, but I think it is right here, in front of all of you and the citizens of Serbia, to mention something that has never existed before, which is that the bill introduces a new institute to decide the first-degree court over the appeal. It is provided that if the facts or the proposed new evidence are presented in the complaint which, according to the first-degree court's assessment, can contribute to the versatile development of the case, the main search may be reopened and the evidence procedure continued. This allows us great savings, because so far we have been in a situation where the case of appeal goes to the second-degree court, until it comes to order, until it is decided, if there is a suspension of the verdict, it is only then that it moves again into the execution of this evidence, where the first-degree court can, in that direction, make certain additions and then that the case itself, when it is decided on the appeal, goes complete, and not to return the cases and, firstly, loses time and secondly, to increase costs. I must say that what some colleagues have pointed out is that this prosecution's investigation has not protected the right to be blamed in terms of the principle and the dubious prophecy, meaning that in the event of doubt, the more favourable it is for the defendant. I believe that an esteemed colleague of the lawyer, who spoke of it, had overlooked that in Article 16(5). The bill explicitly states "the suspicion of the facts of which it depends on the conduct of the criminal proceedings, the existence of a criminal offence or the application of any other provision of the Criminal Code, the court will, in a verdict or decision that corresponds to the verdict, resolve for the benefit of the accused". In any case, in the event of a suspicion, there is a validity of this principle. That's what his colleague Spasojevic mentioned, but he's not here, he probably overlooked that provision at the moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respecting your time, I suggest that, when we discuss this amendment law, we all get actively involved. There is a possibility that this good bill of law in certain members can be corrected and that we can reach the ultimate criminal code, which I have no doubt. In any case, I call on you to pass the Code of Criminal Procedure in the day of the vote, following the adoption of certain amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59638	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Milica Radovic, in her presentation, made it clear and reasoned in a brilliant analysis of the proposal for this law that the concept of the new CAP was completely wrong. The basic principles that should also be the real aim of conducting a criminal procedure are the fair procedure and the principle of determining material truth. Why? Because every CAP, no matter who proposes it or who adopts it, should contain rules that will allow for a fair procedure and that will lead to an innocent person not being convicted in the process. As a result of such a procedure, it is certainly a sentence for a criminal offence provided for by criminal law. However, the proposal for this CAP has completely devalued the principle of truth, where many of my colleagues have spoken and it stands in this code and it cannot be hidden and cannot be masked in any way because the truth in this law is not the aim of conducting a criminal procedure. On the other hand, it has indeed been reduced, a minimalized role of the court with the introduction of a so-called party, a parallel procedure or investigation. You have introduced the passivity of the court by law, by means of evidence by the parties, and the court will be there to assess and to exercise control of the legality of the court proceedings. Why do you do that? Because this code has confused the concepts of a quick and effective trial. I agree that speed is very important, that the procedures in Serbia have lasted too long but speed is not the most important element of the criminal procedure. We believe, indeed, that both the fairness of the proceedings and the equality of the parties and the quality of the judgment is much more important than the speed of the procedure itself. The party's proposal to this law is only formally equal. The defendant doesn't have to have a lawyer, and I don't know if anyone from the Department of Justice has ever wondered what the defendant's position against the prosecutor is and who the entire logistics of the state's apparatus stands for, and he doesn't have a lawyer in the process. Mandatory defenses are prescribed only for serious crimes so that most defendants can but do not have a defender. It's going to look like in practice, so, as much money, drugs, weapons, crime as some punk has for himself, so many legal teams, so many private detectives in his defense, looking for help and evidence for that defense. The fact is that the proposal of this CAP is in fact an unsuccessful attempt to recapture a situation like the United States government in practice and some colleagues have already talked about it, there 90% of the cases end in a settlement between prosecutors and defences, and only 10% are going into proceedings, but in continental Europe, our system, there is a master of the proof process everywhere. The best example is precisely Germany and I am surprised that in a recent visit to the Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, it is not pointed out that just keeping this European continental law is conditions for joining the EU, not for Serbs to give up their institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and to cut their own hand. It is absurd that you, self-called Europeans, accept that this law fully abandons the principle of European law for the sake of obtaining EU status. You have abolished, i.e. you are proposing the abolition of the court's dominant role in the process, and as one of the reputations of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade said, you are turning the court into a professional jury that will be successful in proving the prosecutor on the one hand and the defence on the other. It is likely that some of the judges who have been through this reform sieve will be eager to await such a law, will let the parties in the arena conflict with each other, they will get away with it and only think about how their verdict, their decision, will be confirmed in a higher court. Someone also said, perhaps in this way, a excess judge will be created, perhaps with the application of this CAP, there will be a lack of prosecutors. I don't know, really how all this is finally going to end, but I know every law that came from the Justice Department had to come to the rectification at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I'm sure that this law will be on the agenda again very soon. The law provides for a public prosecutor's investigation and Mr. Palilic and Mrs. Radovic have made it clear that we have nothing against a public prosecutor's investigation, it should speed up the procedure, it should establish that the prosecutor is significantly more active in the process. Believe me, 12 years ago I was in a trial where the prosecutor fell asleep, woke up when a cigarette burned in his hand, then smoking was allowed in the courtroom. Perhaps this procedure will leave more options and more time for the court to deal with what is most important, which is the quality of judgment and will be able to look at all the relevant facts in all this, but I don't think it will fix it and it will affect the speed of the proceedings itself because the evidence collected in this way as you predict can be truly discriminatory in the further phase because in the main search itself, I'm not sure that the process will be accelerated if it is taken into account that these evidence collected is not judicial evidence and it is indeed a huge objection to this bill and I can dispute the main search. There are also unacceptable structures that provide for this proposal for a code related to parallel investigation. Or the defendant's right to collect evidence that goes in his favor and we feel that this is directly contrary to the principle of prejudgence because in a situation like this, the defendant must collect evidence that he is not guilty. In addition to this investigation as you've imagined it, it's not meant to determine the truth and I can't imagine the situation that the prosecutor will consider and accept, he's interested in paying attention to the evidence that goes in favor of the defendant. He's an organ of persecution and he wants to win in the arena and in that duel. In the bill of law, there's also a possibility that the suspect and his defender are gathering evidence in favor of the defense, but what are the chances of the defendant hearing witnesses? Nothing. What kind of police, what kind of prosecution, who will allow the defendant to conduct a witness hearing. The burden of proof is on the prosecutor, and the court will carry out evidence on a party's proposal, he can give the party a warrant to propose additional evidence or will specifically determine that such evidence is being carried out. However, this is interesting, the court can make evidence even when they have not been proposed by the parties. Why would a court do that in this situation? His work in such a procedure is not to establish the truth, he will release both sides and I say once again make a decision just to be such as to be confirmed by a higher court so that some of his results will be positive at the end of the year and not come under the influence of the High Court Council. In this way, I'm afraid that the concept of the whole law has been made senseless and will not give the expected results. The introduction of party evidence and the full limited activities of the court are foreseen. Which is inadmissible. Please tell me what importance it will be in the appeal process because of the incorrect or incomplete fact of the situation. Therefore, the party is in a position to appeal against the factual situation for which it is itself responsible, i.e. for determining that the court decision could be valid. What I also find inadmissible to be in this law, in this form, is that the law does not provide for a restriction of the plea agreement. As you have written this agreement on a criminal offence, I suppose it should be in the law to commit a crime. Then the possibility of making a deal with any crime was created. So the defendant and the prosecutor will agree on a serious murder, rape, pedophilia, human trafficking. It means everything the criminal law provides for. It's really completely incomprehensible why you've been playing with definitions in the legal text. You've introduced three degrees of doubt in article 2. In addition to the grounds of doubt, reasonable doubt, you've brought in reasonable doubt. It's an example of a violation of the prejudgment of innocence. What in the CAP does the definition of organised crime, organized crime groups want? Here stands the deprivement of freedom is an arrest, it says in the CAP. Then why didn't you stop leaving your apartment and write a giggling bracelet? This is inadmissible for something like this to stand in procedural law. At the end of the text of the law is large, overcrowded with norms of which some are contradictory, some unclear, some of which are completely unnecessary. The proposal for this law is a criminally bad and unsuitable text that we will try to fix and edit our amendments, but we sincerely hope that in this form it will not become a source of law in Serbia. Regardless of Mrs Malovic's expectations in your opening statement, we at the DSS are sure that Serbian citizens expect that when a criminal court gives a verdict she is based on the truth, not on what the parties will prove in the process in a mutual duel. I think if the law is passed in this form that it will cause public harassment and therefore the DSS cannot support such a bill on criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59640	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word is Mrs. Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59641	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are contemporaries of comprehensive judicial reform and amending procedural laws, so we have before us a bill on criminal proceedings. In the first place, I would refer to the explanation of basic legal institutions and individual solutions. So far, during the debate, there has been talk of a prosecutor's investigation, and what does that mean? Instead of carrying out evidence by the court on official duty, the burden of proof is on the prosecutor. The prosecutor's new role in the investigation was to regulate his rights. It is decidently provided for in Article 43. The draft law on criminal proceedings, which implies that a public prosecutor conducts an investigation, conducts an investigation, concludes with the defendant's agreement on the recognition of a criminal offence and the agreement on testimony, raises and charges before the court in charge of the investigation, and may give up on it, and is also authorised to declare the complaint and file emergency legal remedies. Furthermore, in Chapter 6 of the proposed law, attention is paid to the defendant and the defendant. The defendant is scheduled to respond to a call by the authority of the procedure and to inform the authority of the intention to change the address. As far as the defenders are concerned, I think this is a good solution, because the right to provide defence in certain proceedings is conditioned by a certain professional experience of the defenders, in a criminal procedure that is being conducted, for which a 10-year sentence is prescribed or a more serious criminal sanctions and a defender can only be a lawyer with at least five years of legal practice, which I think is a good solution. In the proposed code, a distinction was made between the evidence actions and the specific evidence actions. On specific evidence actions, the proposed code provides for the following actions, covert surveillance of communication, covert monitoring, simulated tasks, computer search of data, control of delivery and a covert investigator. It is noted that there are no co-workers among the special evidence stores. As new independent measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings, a ban on access, meeting and communication is envisaged, a ban on leaving residences on leaving the apartment and other measures. So far, there has been no question of being a member of 201. Proposal for a law, provided for a restrictive sentence of the detention measure as the most severe criminal sanction for the presence of the accused during the criminal proceedings. I think it's a good solution that's been accepted here, because Article 210. The bill states that detention can only be determined under the conditions laid down in this law and that the duty of all authorities involved in criminal proceedings to provide legal assistance, that the duration of detention, and here the essence is reduced to the shortest possible time and that they deal with particular urgency, if the defendant is in custody. The possibility of bail has been expanded. What makes me particularly happy is that the paper is submitted in the field of written delivery, and should contribute to the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings, and the letters are submitted by mail from the official, the authorities that have made the decision or directly to that authority, through mail and other organisations registered for the delivery of letters. We all witness that the delivery involved a number of problems, both in criminal and litigation proceedings and in the procedure conducted in executive cases, it is important to point out that delivery can also be carried out on the advertising board or on the website, which is a complete newspaper of the authority of the procedure, with the consent of the person to whom the delivery is to be carried out, or the authority to receive the letters, which is a provision that exists in the Law on the litigation procedure, through the postal fache or e-mail. The issue will be resolved by basic parent and material regulations, a law on residence and residence that will soon be found at the next session of the Serbian Parliament, so I believe that the solutions recognised in practice as a problem implemented in the draft law and that the new law on litigation, law on enforcement and security that enters into force on 18 September, we will have excellent results in this area as regards procedural legislation. There will be more details when we have a discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59642	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS have at least 104 objections on the proposal of this Code, we have submitted so formally the amendments, but we also have general remarks that we want to talk about, as we will discuss the amendments in that second part. The text of this Code of Criminal Procedure is also questionable from the aspect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that you are instituting a prosecutor's investigation, and that the Public Prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is this the direct influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority? We say it is, and you'll probably say it isn't. You are in the legal system through this proposal, trying or trying to introduce many parts of the Anglo-Saxon system, which is also unacceptable, and you are trying to completely change Serbia's legal system in a radical way and by EU order. That's what we can't leave out. This text that we have, this fat book in front of us, is contained on page 202 by the members of the proposal for this bill, and on page 262 of the directive and all that you boast that you have listened to from the EU. It's absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. We don't know how this suicidal urge in the representatives of the Boris Tadic regime, what else the EU needs to do to you, so to speak, we won't talk to EU representatives anymore. They've destroyed everything for us, and with their help, you've destroyed it in the last 11 years. You have destroyed all democratic principles, millions of people are out of work, at the site of former factories, major malls, every day new layoffs, Serbs kill in The Hague, take away and take away KIM from us. What else should my people do to you and say, we will no longer think about Serbia's entry into the EU? You step over all of this and keep listening to what some third-rate officials from some European countries tell you, and then you tell us here, not only when it comes to judicial reform, you boast about how some comprehensive public debate has been conducted, so we have the expert public's views on every proposal you present here. You, Mrs. Malovic, were saying today that this proposal of the Criminal Code has also passed a public debate. You haven't told us a single sound name. Who thought this was good for you? You say, "Professors." Which one? Plagiars – Gašo Knezevic and Stevan Lilić. Give some serious professorial name, give some serious name from the professional public who will say that this is in accordance with both the Constitution and the applicable and good for our judicial system. You don't have a proper expert or public hearing at all. If you had, then it's impossible, you know that you wouldn't show up at least one legal expert who would tell you that this isn't good, even if it was good, even if it was great, someone would say that for some reason it wasn't good. No, you're having a public discussion with your co-workers. Approximately, since every law that you represent here is first presented in public by Slobodan Homen, and then this public debate is actually brought down to public debate by the resistance of Slobodan Homen and Secretary of State Slobodan Homen. Speaking of Mr. Homen, you have spoken here, the representatives of the ruling majority, what has been done in this time while you are minister and while this government is ruling, what has been done in the area of justice. We don't have time to return to a catastrophic network of courts, speaking of this law. I hope you've become aware of that by now. You cannot meet a judge without asking you, "Aman, is this going to change?" Judges complain how much their numbers have increased, so those who travel from one place to another, without talking about those who have lost their jobs, who still receive wages today. Now Slobodan Homen, known, if you forgot to remind you of two things, first of all the fresh ones, remember that correspondence between Ciric and him, they were both state secretaries at the time, Ciric is now a minister, about when Cirić asked Homen to suspend the execution of judicial solutions and decisions and such someone recommends what is good in the legal system. Or, here I read Serbian Politics, for example. When it comes to the Resistance and the period when he burned and burned Free Homen there, he says – when it comes to money, it should be noted that in 2004, the Coordinator of the Resistance from Subotica sought control of the resistance financing since 1999 because of the suspicion that the then head of the Free Homen, a lawyer, now State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and his brother from the aunt Nenad Konstantinovic, had been illegally available with 10 million dollars that they had received in the name of aid from the United States by 2004. According to US data, by October 5, 2000, the Resistance received over $2.6m and another $800,000 from February 2001 to November 2002. In addition to the above, there is two million dollars to be added here for various campaigns – fighting crime, fighting corruption, the law today, who is guilty and the like, and what all goes into the 10 million dollars mentioned. When it comes to members and activists... (President: Mrs. Radeta, please refer to the Code of Criminal Procedure. ) Mr. Novakovic, please allow me to explain why I think Slobodan Homen as State Secretary is incompetent to represent this law in public as good. My question, Minister Malovic, is, since it is listed here, Mr Konstantinovic listed all of the epochal successes of the judiciary, has something been done in the judiciary on this subject that I have just mentioned? If it is, how is it done, is it finished, at what stage? I guess the public needs to know that. Gentlemen of the Department of Justice, you have long introduced Hague principles into our judiciary. First, you did it in the Special Court and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and organized crime. We really need to note that Vladimir Vukcevic was the poorest man, this war crimes prosecutor, who boasted on a television show that he left some old wine he was supposed to drink with Karl Del Ponte, when Mladic was arrested. Every normal host in Serbia leaves old wine and old brandy to open it when his son goes to the army, when his son is married, when he gets a grandchild, and Vukcevic kept old wine to open it with Karl Del Ponte, when General Mladic was arrested. Here he said he had never said it, although he said it directly on a television show, as Brammertz boasted that he was touched under the table by the knee when General Mladic was arrested. This Mr. Vukčević is also talking about Cameron Manter, Wikiliks. One of the "Vikliks" depesa says -- Serbian war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic told the embassy's legal adviser that Haradinaj's acquittal had a negative impact on the SRS leader Vojislav Seselj's Hague trial on 16 April 2008. Vukcevic said Seselj applied the same strategy as Haradinaj, the intimidation of witnesses, as he saw how successful the strategy was in the Haradinaj case. Some witnesses, including an associate who earlier testified in the Ovcar case before the Belgrade court, have already voiced concern about personal security, Vukcevic said. Because of this lie, Mr. Vukcevic will have to answer. They've already started certain procedures in which we'll see if they'll confirm this, to prove these disgusting lies of theirs. Imagine, Mrs. Malovic, if this were true, God forbid. Whose responsibility would that be? Well, Vladimir Vukcevic. So what would he say as a prosecutor, as they call him here, a local prosecutor, says Manter, about war crimes, if he knows something like that was happening why he didn't do anything. Of course, he lied. For the sake of illustration of how you apply the Hague principle in our judiciary, I will present several characteristic parts, i.e. the elements of the trial of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj before The Hague tribunal and I will explain how Vojislav Seselj fully exposed The Hague tribunal. (President: Mrs Radeta, I apologize, but the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is a proposal, does not apply in The Hague tribunal, so please return to the topic and discuss the Serbian Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Novakovic, I've been talking all along, but I don't know why you don't understand, that you're introducing a tribunal of our judiciary. That's what I'm explaining. I'm sorry you don't understand. I am not talking about the Regulation and the Statute of the Hague Tribunal, but about the proposal for a criminal code to be presented to us on behalf of the Government of Mrs Snezana Malovic, who, when she represented in the opening statement, said that this law provides for the agreed testimony of the accused and convicted. That's what happens in The Hague. In what way? By the UN tribunal's investigators collecting statements from future witnesses, they do so under pressure, trying to corrupt them, by threatening them. That is why Vojislav Seselj filed criminal charges against 44 false witnesses who appeared in the trial against him because, using what you are now predicting in this code, because they were extorting under the threat of coerced and blackmailing statements from these potential witnesses, Vojislav Seselj also filed criminal charges against prosecutors in The Hague tribunal who took part in it. You're talking about special status for a protected witness. Em's a protected witness, but he still has a special status. He says – a particularly sensitive witness. What's he particularly sensitive about? For money? You will buy witnesses, as they are bought in The Hague. Yes, and then you will have judgments according to that people's -- two without a soul, one without a head. We've had this before here in many processes that have taken place in the Serbian judiciary after several years. Should I remind you of the sheepman case? You must not mention that it is Alexander Vasiljevic, or responsible for the crime on Ovcara. He says -- when the Croats wanted to launch and announce a case against him, then says Slobodan Homen -- it's not the time to discuss it now, as if there was some time that was or wasn't to expose war crimes. That time, it always exists. You have Dulovic, who appeared as a false witness both in Belgrade and The Hague tribunal, several times. Imagine that his diary was not considered by Mrksic as evidence, who then again called him to testify in the process of Vojislav Seselj. So that's what you'll do, unfortunately, in our Serbian judiciary. You say, "If the defendant does not have a defender, then the defender will have limited rights." Which will have rights if he is not blamed, Mrs. Malovic? If the defendant doesn't want a defense attorney, then no one can impose a defense attorney on him with limited or unlimited rights. Should all the accused in Serbia strike hunger, as Vojislav Seselj led the hunger strike to the brink of life and death, to fight to defend himself? Are you asking all the defendants in some of the procedures in Serbia? How do you think you're gonna say - if the defendant doesn't want a lawyer, the defendant will have limited rights? He won't have any, he can't show up in court unless he's charged. I hope you must accept this as one of the flows of modern international law, Mrs. Malovic. You're talking about a five-year-old defense attorney being an official defender. That's pretty amazing. If someone passes and finishes law school, passes a lawyer's exam, you've also introduced an academy, a master, what doesn't, all of it ends, and you're going to, what, license lawyers to work for the state? Even so, they say what they're doing now is that you haven't paid for them in a long time, not by the craftsmen, not by the witnesses, not by the jurors. I don't know how you're going to secure these by official duty lawyers with more than five years' work experience? So this is also unconstitutional and this is discrimination and you have no right to do this, Mrs Malovic, neither you nor the representatives nor the rest of the government who offered us such a law. So, we had it again, since you're talking about these special witnesses, I also have to mention examples from The Hague tribunal, although Mr. Novakovic doesn't like it, but just to tell you how bad it is. We have an example, for example, where a witness in one statement is also a witness from Vojislav Seselj's case, and that witness was talking about the crimes that took place in Zvornik. He says that in the first statement she gave to the representatives of the Muslim government, she doesn't mention either Seselj or the "sexel" anywhere. In a second statement to the UN tribunal's representatives, it also does not mention it, but even some diverting Seselj's squad mentions during the testimony. So they're doing what they're asking, doing what they're asking, witnesses saying what the UN tribunal is asking them to do. Witnesses are bought with money, bought by moving into a third country, threats and blackmail. You are now, unfortunately, crossing it all into this criminal code and boasting of this code. Believe me, there's nothing to brag about. They spoke here of colleagues who would vote for this law that all major processes had been completed in the last few years. You didn't have a problem with the law if you didn't let Saric get out of the country. But, of course, I don't mean personally, but I heard from you personally on one television show that Saric is so powerful that he can affect all governments in the region. Of course, I conclude, then the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why, for example, did he run away? You didn't mind the existing Code of Criminal Code, the Criminal Code to keep it. Why didn't you find a way to write a real warrant for Stanko Subotic Canet? You talked – because you didn’t have a certain crime, etc. That's not true. Two days ago, in a video address to reporters via video link, the man said he financed DS nicely, that I don't know how much money he gave Ruzica Djindjic. That's why he can get away. Then boast – he is arrested, there is a case against Sarancic, against this road director, Jocic, etc., and you do not mention, for example. Goran Knezevic. At what stage of the procedure, where Goran Knezevic explained how he kept the DS money I don't know in what quantities in the municipality of Zrenjanin, 200 million? Mrs. Malovic, we will talk in detail about all these 104 of our remarks, when it comes to this law, but this is a very bad proposal for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59644	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59645	How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59646	Over 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59647	Thank you. We listened carefully to the Prime Minister's opening remarks and saw him insisting on taking over parts or legal rules of Angolan law. We believe that this is wrong, not only because it is a fact that every student of the first year of the Faculty of Law is clear that the Republic of Serbia belongs to the continental legal system, but because it is a fact that the professional public, as my colleagues have spoken before me and respected professors of the Faculty of Law who deal with criminal and procedural law, such as Mr Milan Škulić, who is not a member of the SRS, has no doubt whether we are subjective or not, has made it easier to express ourselves in this so-called. under allegations of a public debate on this law of serious criticism and serious doubt in this draft, i.e. in this bill. I remind you, Minister, that the representative of your team for the making of this law, Mr. From the Court of Appeal, Mr. Majic, had as some kind of duel with Mr. Škulic in the daily list of "Politicals". I am literally quoting Mr. Shkulic, a professor of criminal procedural law, who says this bill completely erases the principle of truth. You certainly know what the principle of truth is one respected colleague from the DS here mentioned Mrs. Zagorko Jekic, that is this book and every law school student in the last 20 years when he took criminal procedural law he used this textbook. In this textbook, it states that the principle of truth is an obligation, above all, to determine by the President of the Judiciary, not by the Prosecutors, but by the Judicial Council and the Judges by this definition may be neutral in one process. I think it's perfectly clear, and I'm showing this again so it doesn't turn out like some colleagues from the DS say that waist and law and criminal procedural rights are behind them. So this is evidence that cannot be challenged. Also, Mr. Škulic states that it is simply incomparable to apply the principles of Angolan law to our opportunities. I'll give you a specific example. You must know that it's possible for someone to be a lawyer in England, and I repeat that by not graduating from law school. The most famous example is Mrs Margaret Thatcher. So it's something that can't be applied here and that I don't get into other details that there's no actual constitution there, either. It's completely wrong to apply such a thing in our legal system. You can say that the EU is asking us, you can say that these are EU standards, that this is not just about Angolan law, but it is not true. You are here, as Mrs Verica Radeta has said, listed some 200 and some sides and I see that it is some sort of pattern that is repeated in every law, a statement of compliance with the aquimuner, with EU law. These 268 pages state compliance with the EU Directive, i.e. more specifically the European Parliament and the 2010 Council. I can tell you here for 15 minutes, that this directive is not in line with Serbian law, because you listed it in the form and in several places it says -unharmonised, impossible to apply, etc. So you deny yourself and state that one EU directive is not applicable in the Serbian legal system. Also, I am amazed and I cannot believe that no one existed on this team that made the bill, that you do not know, not personally, but in this team that simply, it is not the correct translation of the EU directive, but in the legal theory - Budimir Kosutić, Mirko Vasiljevic, who deals with European law, uses a term of instruction. So it's a manual because it's a proper translation, not a directive. The directive already reminds of something that is mandatory in general, something that is used in military matters, and the instruction is something that is indicative and something that is not binding for EU Member States, and as far as I know, and thank God, we are not EU members. It is therefore entirely inappropriate for such a significant law, a law that has over 600 members to be justified, by calling for a directive that is not, more specifically, a directive that is not mandatory for EU Member States. Also, you are talking about an explanation, you are more specifically writing in the light of the bill's proposal that the bill is in line with the members of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the transitional Trade Agreement. That's, you have to admit, nonsense. The transitional trade agreement concerns the economic parts of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and has nothing to do with the Criminal Procedure Act. Also, as far as the arguments are concerned, which are supposed to prove to us that compliance with EU law, under the heading – compliance with the EU's primary sources, stands for nothing. That's amazing. You have agreed with the SPP, with secondary EU law, but there is no talk about, for example, a Lisbon agreement that is valid, and one of the EU's "constitutions" can be said. There is no argument there, which shows that the one who wrote that reasoning of the law has no idea about European law. It would be a little bit more accurate to do those formulations, because this is a shame for someone who writes the following text of an explanation of such an important law. As far as this fact is concerned, it is not clear to me, and I ask you – will it be applied, if it is not already mentioned in the reasoning of the law, parts of the Lisbon Agreement that say that soon a general European prosecutor will be formed, who will have jurisdiction over all EU Member States, if the EU's financial interests are at stake. It's a very serious legal issue, and it's unserious, and it's inappropriate for it to be accessed in the draft of this law. As far as the law itself is concerned, I believe, and my colleagues have also brought it before me, that very controversial provisions concerning protected witnesses are. You will admit that it is one substance that has been regulated and in the countries that you have listed, if I am not mistaken in the opening presentation as role models, it is Germany and Italy. In particular, in Italy there is experience in fighting crime, experience in working with protected witnesses that you have demonstrated to respect it, if I am not mistaken, given the name of Judge Falkone to a judge. On the other hand, I will remind you that in this bill you state that a protected witness can testify under protective measures – that his name is not known, that his appearance is not known, that even his voice and identity is eliminated. Minister, I will remind you, and you certainly know it as a lawyer, that the most famous crime and mafia process in Italy is the famous "Maxie Process" from 1986 to 1987, where more than 400 members of the Goat Nostra were accused. The main witness, a protected witness who was murdered by two children, closer and further relatives, all of his associates, was Mr. Tomazo Bushetta. You'll admit that it's still a very sensitive testimony, how you use the bill definition. The very fact that there was this trial in the bunker that cost $100 million at the time. However, this gentleman, a former criminal, testified without any safeguards. In particular, I ask you in public, in front of all MPs – is it possible that there is greater danger in the Republic of Serbia for protected witnesses than the one that is famous in the legal theory, in legal practice, in all trials dealing with particularly sensitive protected witnesses. I'm not going to talk about this any further, you must know how they went and how Judges Falkone and Borselina were killed, and how that trial was a high-risk trial. It makes no sense that it is possible to compare it to the situation, regardless of the crime in the Republic of Serbia. Also, I'd ask you, and you're saying in an explanation that there's an alleged equality of weapons, how is that possible? On the one hand, you have the state, you have the prosecution on the one hand, which, according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia 2011, has several tens of millions of euros in their register, and on the other hand, you will have the defendants who can have an average salary in the Republic of Serbia of 30,000 dinars, who have to pay lawyers, who have to pay extra costs and are now talking about some kind of gun equality. You'll admit, logically, linguistically, any systematic and historical interpretation says it's nonsense. It's nonsense, because there can't be equality between such sides. The only guarantee of equality is the judge, the President of the Judicial Council, the Judicial Council. It's something that basic logic, legal interpretation, language interpretation, or whatever you want, speaks. Also, I must warn you as a lawyer and as someone in charge of the judiciary in this country, that excessive use of a protected witness leads to another phenomenon to the appearance of false witnesses. Ms. Verica Radeta has given you the process of Vojislav Seselj, and I will give you concrete information. There are 40 false witnesses in this process. Forty. From that total number of witnesses, about two thirds of them are protected. You have a direct connection between the so-called. protected witnesses, between exaggerating danger and giving false protective measures, and the appearance of false witnesses. That's why I think these provisions of the bill are harmful and will lead to the huge and massive appearance of false witnesses in these processes. I can tell you as many examples as you want from the local justice system, but I think it's the most famous, and you know it, and of course I'm not going to name names, an example of a trial in Ovcar. You must know that two protected witnesses, I won't mention their names, accuse each other of cross-examination, and make the worst lies and accusations for each other. It turned out, and then we saw in their testimony in The Hague, that it was pathological killers, war criminals, and these are people who are simply not worthy to say anything credible. There are dangers, and I think this is a law that's been made lightly and it's one matter that has to be prepared for years, and simply, it has to be with one serious approach, not just as far as the application of Angolan law is concerned, which is wrong, not only so-called. alignment with European law, but also these phenomena, so-called A witness, actually, a false witness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59648	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59649	Madam Minister, when a man reads all the provisions of this bill, and especially when he is kept on those provisions that represent, as you say in the light of this bill, the paper, then in itself, certain conclusions are imposed. The first conclusion to be made, by reading the Bill's proposal, is that we couldn't have expected anything better on this matter. Why? Well, because this is simply a logical consequence of everything you have been calling since 2008 - the reform of the Serbian judiciary. And from the order of the courts, from the election of judges and prosecutors to these essential laws, the law of criminal proceedings and the law of litigation. This law, as well as the one that we will have, simply, Madam Minister, is a point on i), both on those $100 million and on the complete reform of the Serbian judiciary. For this reform of the Serbian judiciary, Madam Minister, you no longer seem to need criticism. You don't need criticism because you're just here enough for yourself. We criticized you a lot when you made proposals for these laws in the field of judicial reform, but, I say, you're enough for yourself. If you don't believe it, then read WikiLeaks, and you'll see there, you can see everything, and how you've edited the courts, how you've elected judges, how you've elected prosecutors, how you've gossiped to each other in front of Americans and everything else that's about judicial reform. Everything there can be seen. Because of all this, then, one general conclusion is that this bill on criminal proceedings is merely a logical consequence and your reform of the judiciary, and this law, in relation to the powers that you give to the prosecutor and the powers that you leave to the court in a pre-criminal former procedure, really represents something that can be said to be good only for those judges who have come to court and elected from agricultural cooperatives and those judges whose main reference is that they are good party comrades. This law will only be good for them, and the rest I'm not sure about. The second conclusion that is in itself imposed, reading the bill, is that you here seem to have had some kind of air support. Seems like you've had a lot of help here. I would say that here, direct assistance may have been from some attaché from the US Embassy or some expert from the Hague tribunal, because simply when this paper is given such a logical conclusion, it is imposed itself. Why? Because this is simply a sort of blend of continental, Anglo-Saxon and Hague criminal procedural rights. Now let's start with some concrete things. The full introduction of the prosecutor, Madam Minister, in the current pre-criminal procedure, so the introduction of the prosecutor into an investigation, where the prosecutor becomes an alpha and omega in gathering evidence, and the court becomes only a silent observer in this part, in establishing the material truth, which should be the essence of this procedure, is something that absolutely has no basis, neither in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and especially in our criminal procedural practice. In addition, Madam Minister, it is out of every sense that a complete pre-criminal procedure is being put into the hands of a man, even if he was your famous public prosecutor. Who do you, Madam Minister, think you can convince that this law on criminal proceedings will allow the protection of the fundamental rights of the accused, that such a law on criminal proceedings will bring a full explanation of the facts relating to the crime? Furthermore, Madam Minister, you are giving the prosecutor the opportunity to conclude an agreement with the defendant, to conclude a plea agreement, to conclude an agreement on the type, measure or range of penalties, or other criminal sanctions, and to conclude an agreement on the property arising from the offence, which will be taken away. Madam Minister, only in these three items I've listed, here's the room for manipulation. I'll just return you to the law of confiscation of property obtained by criminal acts. If you remember, Mrs. Malovic, you have provided by this law in one part that part of the property, which has been acquired by a criminal offence, can be left to the perpetrator if it is necessary for his maintenance. Madam Minister, ask that robbed poor girl is this okay? Ask them if it's good to leave a single dollar of robbed property to the perpetrator of the crime on his behalf? Excuse me, so where he's going, he shouldn't need a belt or a shoe or anything, and you leave him part of the stolen property or part of the property acquired by a felony. What are you doing with the bill now? Madam Minister, you're going further. Someone seems to have had little to do with the law of confiscation of property acquired by a criminal offense, so now you're authorising a public prosecutor, be careful that he can negotiate with the defendant about the property acquired by the crime, and you don't even give him any conditions. You're not imposing any restrictions on him in that negotiation. Let the D.A. negotiate as he wishes, right? No conditions whatsoever. Even in Article 318. The draft law on criminal proceedings is provided for by you and which you regulate the conduct of this agreement, instead of predicting that the agreement will necessarily be rejected, if it is the prosecutor, for example. in respect of assets that have been seized, a harmful agreement has been reached by the State, according to the damaged. No, you're even predicting some procedural reasons, not essential, just procedural. Is that what the applicant's intensity is in this part? Did you do it by accident or on purpose? Simply, who gives you the right to have a public prosecutor at his disposal in this manner with property acquired by a criminal offence? Is that his father's? Is that your fatherland? Whose is it? That's not how you negotiate with the property that someone has acquired. Furthermore, you introduce the institutes of a protected, especially sensitive, and then a particularly sensitive witness into this law. Then, you predict the use of modern information and communication technology. You also predict the possibility when the defendant's presence is difficult for security and other reasons, as you say, that he can participate in the session, be careful, through the transmission of sound and images. This really is the right solution for you. Explain to us, Madam Minister, what are your security reasons for making it difficult for the perpetrator to be present at his trial? And what other reasons are these? See how you give a broad term – difficult reasons and other reasons. Who are they? Who are they? Who are they? You might want to explain that to us, that would be really interesting. Why can't the defendant be present for some security reasons? Or, Madam Minister, when it comes to this, do you perhaps recognize the state's impotence to ensure that the defendant attends his process safely at any time? Or do you, on behalf of someone else, recognize the impotence of the police and other security authorities? Did you consult Mr. Dacic on this matter? Is he for not being able to secure the defendant's presence at all times? Who's more powerful than the police, so you admit it in this law, so you can't bring him in, or maybe you think it's better that somewhere from Lake Geneva, from some apartment, from a comfortable chair, some accused through a video link, or what I know, gives his defense? In the end, but not because the topics were exhausted, we said that we had submitted a lot of amendments and there would certainly be plenty of words about them. I'll just say one more thing about one institute that you've provided for in this law on criminal proceedings, which is the institute you're predicting in article 14. The bill of law, therefore, is a reasonable trial. Madam Minister, the trial within a reasonable time, who believes you that you will carry out and respect this principle consistently? Who can trust you, when no one, simply no one has answered in the right way from this state, from this authority for a nine-year trial, which is not within a reasonable time, but out of every sense, held in The Hague tribunal, against our citizen? Then who would believe that you would respect this principle here, if you had not respected it so far? You don't care about Vojislav Seselj and his family and children and grandchildren and everything. Then who trusts you that you will respect this principle and who will trust you at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59650	Eleven minutes and thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic and he is the last to be registered on the list of speakers. You have 23 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59651	I don't want to tell you what the WikiLeaks are publishing, we're going to publish, there's gonna be book volumes, there's 200 and a few thousand dumplings about Serbia. However, Mrs Malovic, I would recommend that when you return to the office tomorrow, you first ask the VSS to resolve Sinisa Okic. It's been announced that he went to rat the state out of the U.S. embassy. Although Sasa Vukadinovic also sold information, I see that Miki Rakic is very active, and he understands the judiciary and he wonders about the judiciary. You didn't say one word to see if this code would apply to KIM territory. Have you forgotten? Citizens need to know, what we have on the agenda now, there are probably a few draft laws left, these are the latest breaths of judicial reform, according to the US, which have given 100m dollars for this reform, Mrs. Malovic. They want the tribunalisation of the Serbian judiciary and it goes in stages. As you can see, every stage you've worked in judicial reform has been disastrous. Now let's talk a little bit about the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why do I say tribunalization? After a new solution, the judge may approve a covert shoot to determine whether the person concerned has committed a crime. When it needs to be done – BIA. Who is headed by BIA – Saša Vukadinović. WikiLeaks says he's selling information to the US Embassy. You did this for nothing. You don't have to do this. Furthermore, we had Natasha Kandic representing people in court, although he is a sociologist. We had Natasa Kandic who keeps witnesses in his apartment, we had Natasa Kandic, who is paid by The Hague tribunal, or the Prosecutor's Office, who gives the keys to her witnesses, she invites witnesses from abroad, organizes transportation, leads a lawyer, a former judge to play some sort of procedure. How is that possible? It's possible. You've allowed such a function to be given to someone in our justice system. We just heard from the Resistance. It's not gonna be like everything's been epochally done since you came to power. Why didn't you solve the subject of Goran Knezevic, when everything is epochal? To help you out a little bit, it doesn't take any changes to the law to get rid of, say, the murder of a guard on Topcider. You go to Boris Tadic, ask him, and he will tell you everything: when, who, who are Colonel Djenic, Colonel Jevdzovic. The military knows all about it, but you won't. Furthermore, who has made it possible for greater importance in criminal proceedings to have, allegedly, a lawyer of a victim's family, such as Srdja Popovic, who is now giving lectures to everyone, and he signed a petition to bomb Serbia? We have an institute of witness associates, applied to the Court of Organized Crime and to war crimes. For war crimes several witness associates, perpetrators of a crime. What do they have in common? A joint attorney from New Sad. What do they have in common? The judge who was the judge's intern at that lawyer's house. They lie where they come from. Their statements were not taken here, the statements were not taken when the verdicts were made, nor were their statements taken in The Hague tribunal in three cases. How can they continue to be protected? You've got a businessman named Chumeta, who can walk down the street with the police to close down road renovation contracts. He's an associate witness. Now you've shared it, we have a suspect and we have a convicted associate who, due to the alleged high evidence value of his confession and an indication of who are members of organized crime, gets protection. Today, in Serbia, it has become a dream to be an associate witness, it has better protection than anyone. Next, he says - an independent judiciary. What's independent of? How can the judiciary be independent? This transformed yours, did it solve the crime issue on October 5th? It didn't work out. Did he solve some criminal affair that is of great interest not to be solved by DS and satellites? It didn't work out. Is he going to solve it? He won't solve it. Why won't he solve it? It wasn't even designed to solve. Very simple and simple. You're inserting something that disgusts the professional public in the world. There's a statement given to some investigator that could be a means of proof, to get into the file, and to get proof of value and relevance, and we all know in the beginning that it's a lie. You're talking about some liquids, some international standards. Why didn't you refer to international standards that are under UN auspices, so conventions, guidelines, minimum standards? No, you're on 260 pages for the EU's dying law. You are calling on the EU to take away KIM. What kind of message are you sending? You don't care about living in Serbia, it's important for you to be patted on the shoulders by the EU. But there's a WikiLeaks, and then we see it's not exactly like that. You're being blackmailed, you have to work, you're being criticised for believing even the lies you're bringing here, with which you disabling the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You are talking about some basic provisions and principles: ban on torture, protection, etc. Please, how is it possible that Slobodan Homen, before criminal charges are filed, before the indictment is written, he is commenting on the entire case on TV. No one's allowed, and he's allowed. All he tells is, what crime, who is this, who is he, how they're going to do it effectively, it's going to end well, of course, counting on some other information to come. Reasonable time-limit – you are referring to a reasonable time-limit. You have no idea what the standard of trial means within a reasonable period of time. If you had a slight relationship about it, this state would daily write a petition and inform the world's public of a crime that appears in The Hague tribunal over Vojislav Seselj. Nine years in custody, no first degree conviction yet, and no answer to the question of who violates his right to an expeditional trial. We had fantastic regulations about the trial within a reasonable time frame. It's true -- in so many months, the charges must be filed, if not filed, the defendant is released, so we've had as much detention as he can during the first-degree procedure, during the second-degree, all by age-limited. You have now accepted the innovation that is applied in the European Court of Human Rights – a reasonable trial, and you have forced the Constitutional Court to apply it only when it comes to litigation. If they are criminal proceedings, there is no. Why isn't there? Because there are specific criteria – the complexity of the procedure, the behaviour of the parties in the procedure, etc., all descriptive, round and cornered. Why are you doing this? Because you don't care about an effective judiciary. If you cared about an effective judiciary, those who made this building for you would have collected their claims – 500 million dinars you owe to the contractors. You still owe for the Tower of Avalon, although you don't even know whose it is. What capital item have you solved? Have you solved the "Elita" savings issue? Did you solve Pantic's murder in Jagodina? What have you solved? How did you solve it? You won't even solve it. You want to secure the judiciary under absolute control of the DS and all those who think that the only time Serbia is the EU, and this is the EU that is tearing us apart, and in order for this to happen, as Wikiliks said, those who have bought a diploma, those who are functionally and fundamentally illiterate and who know of the seven downfalls -- four. Imagine - a public prosecutor can provide, or a bank is obliged to provide information to a public prosecutor. How could you imagine that? What public prosecutor do you trust today in Serbia? Which prosecutor do you trust, when the public was informed that during this election you had a year and a half ago, the BIA was the main one that provided the characteristic of whether someone met the conditions of being a judge or prosecutor? Do you know that today there is one special profession in the judiciary, and these are former judicial workers - I receive wages, I do nothing, they are unselected judges and presidents of the courts. Why don't you cancel their salary? It's awkward. He'll talk. When we finished that stage, although we criticized you for those secretaries of cooperatives you've appointed as presidents of the courts. You don't know? If you don't know, then you're doing this function for free, I thought that when a state official has to know what's going on in his vault, and if you don't know, then it's not worth talking to you. If you give that meaning to the police you're talking about, I'll tell you one case from Bosilegrad, one officer who was punished in a third retrial and when he got by I don't know which time the second court ruling, where his sentence was confirmed, was immediately called by someone from the court to tell him that he should report to a prison sentence. And why was he convicted? Because he prevented the chief of the SUP in Bosilegrad and his wife, who works at customs, from ending things and resenting some of the smugglers who threatened to end up with him just like it ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59652	People's MP, I ask you to bring the smugglers and everything else into contact with the agenda theme, because 11 minutes, mostly very authorised, you touch the provisions and the topic of the agenda, so I warn you that together we respect Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59653	I am informing you, Mrs. Comic, that this is the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there are phases in this procedure, you don't have to know, there is this pre-criminal procedure, there is an investigation, there is a search, there is a procedure by appeal, etc., etc. I'm trying to focus this discussion on some stages of this process. I see some people have figured it out, but since you're nervous, I'll turn around and take another area.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59654	People's MP, I'm warning you now. Several times during the presentation, you violated the Rules of Procedure, speaking of other persons in an inappropriate way. I was expecting, with all the enthusiasm you put into the Code of Criminal Procedure, that you would in any way bring it into contact. Now I warn you, either you will speak kindly to the faces and persons who are in the hall, and to those who are not, or we will apply together the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly. I also remind MP Suleiman Spah of the obligations of proper conduct in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59655	I'm just making an analysis of the existing situation and new solutions. For example, an agreement on the defendant's testimony gives some people the opportunity, because these members themselves mean that the defendant has committed some crime, but they give him the opportunity to amnesty in his own way by accusing others and putting his individual criminal responsibility on someone else, neither guilty nor debtor. But I still have to commend the legislator because when I criticise, then I get into an awkward situation. Here, the measures to prevent a delay in proceedings, there you wrote that the measure is a warning. I think you made a big mistake here. When a person delays the proceedings, he abuses his assessment of authority and, as a rule, suspends the proceedings and does not take action against the accused. Because if the court council doesn't, then there's no difference between the prosecution and the court that agrees. I would also like to commend you for this fact that the defendant cannot commit a crime. That's where you went a little further than the Brammer guy who's here today. They have some contempt for the court there, however, lack of respect for the court has not yet reached the level of international ordinary law. I must draw your attention - except for these hundred and some amendments that we have submitted to concrete members, a large number of solutions that exist in these members do not come from international standards and have not reached the level of international ordinary law. The fact that someone is trying to make a mix between continental and aglosaxon rights, then makes a quasi-proceeding, quasi-institution, as something that exists in The Hague tribunal, where at one point the judges can give more evidence of the testimony that the witness made 15 years ago to a prosecutor, rather than his testimony in a courtroom where he ordainly testified about certain things. It's totally unacceptable. As for these special measures, I must draw your attention that you have made a huge mistake here. Secret tracking, listening, etc., etc., all these measures from BIA's jurisdiction are only possible in order to conduct a pre-cover procedure, and you have raised them here to the level that they may be investigative actions. That's where you made a catastrophic mistake. Another mistake – you made it possible for a simple judge to decide on these measures. It was once only in the sole jurisdiction of the President of the Supreme Court. Not to talk about these other solutions that in our practice will prove to be very bad. In the end, I'd like to say something about a troubled sighting of a presupervision of innocence. The presupunction of innocence in our system for the first time and the first person who dared to attack was Zoran Djindjic, with a famous sentence – Let them go to The Hague and prove their innocence. You took it as one max, as one principle, here you pushed it. Not in that way, you've turned a little bit of that way, and here the prejudgment of innocence is tied only to the verdict and the other part has been thrown out -- legal proceedings, but not to tell you, it's not the original solution of this government, it's been done by the previous government when it passed one of the law on criminal proceedings, because today we have several laws on criminal proceedings, and no one knows who is applying to what case anymore, since some of the cases have been moving pretty long and years. So we couldn't expect a better solution than what you've given, and these solutions contained in this law are the worst that there are. So if there was a tender for the worst draft criminal code, probably the participants in the tender couldn't reach this level of unquality text. No protection is provided here, nor is any guarantee given to any normal procedure in which the truth is to be established. As far as the prosecution's investigation is concerned, it will never come to life in Serbia. I must draw your attention that a large number of judges in The Hague tribunal are protesting daily because the investigation is in the hands of the prosecution. They say that if the investigation or control of the investigation, in the hands of the UN tribunal's judges, would not have been the case if statements by some alleged potential witnesses were so falsified and false that those same witnesses in the courtroom said that I never said this. This is not what I'm talking about with The Hague tribunal and with the investigator. In the case against Vojislav Seselj, we also have witnesses, who were under pressure from both the embassy and the Prime Minister and others to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj. This could go on until 1 January 2005, until the prosecution could press charges against ordinary people. Since it was interrupted that day, they were running out of time, and then people got rid of themselves, and they didn't just want to be complicit in this kind of lie. If the investigation is with the prosecutor, then we'll have a situation like the Hague tribunal, that the witness is missing two years, and on the basis of his failure, a full indictment is formed. Instead of saying that it was August 1990, he moved it in March 1992, when it couldn't happen and then built an entire speech-based accusing structure, there was a disaster. Why does no state question the tribunal of its criminal law? They don't allow it, they all give it up. That mix didn't do any good. That mix destroyed all the evidence principles, and you're not talking about proof principles. There are evidence principles that are in the process and equal weapons and equality of the parties. It's not here. Here you are trying to act, the public prosecutor will be a Serbian justice officer and he will determine the truth and what is responsible for his indictment and the truth that is not responsible for his indictment. Do you know when this will happen in Serbia? Never. It'll be past the court's control, there'll only be control in terms of detention, nothing more. Is the complete evidence revealed? Here we also have something that some in the Council of Europe are promoting, which is to take a statement and that the defendants and the defenses and they don't know who the witness is and never know who the witness will be in the courtroom, and you're talking about the top principles of international justice, some international standards. There's no standard here, there's every standard disfigured here, and when you do it so violently, the proof is "Sabre." How much was charged for the damages caused by those massive arrests? You are ossions, you have America, England, you have a NATO pact, you have a European Union, it's all going to be pushed, and other things are of no interest to you, but to protect yours, and yours in public enterprises, to protect yours in some other areas that some things have done, but there will be times when we will specifically talk about it. Two hundred thousand WikiLeaks have announced, the Americans have best said what they think of you, who they're suing, etc. Sinisha Okja is being thrown out of the judiciary, and you throw out all those judges who went to the U.S. to go to school, because these are people who are working against the interests of this people, they are working against justice in this country, against the law and the Constitution. We're not gonna wait for the WikiLeaks to announce, and I'm telling you what's in the dumps, in advance. I've been telling you for three years what's going on in those dumplings in a different way, so you smiled, and now that they've published the dispatches, you can't hit Americans, you can't say there are lies. And America didn't deny the dispatches published by the WikiLeaks. In order to pass this law and all our laws, this state must be free and bring regulations to this people and that offices apply in this country and between individuals, and not by the dictatorship that some funds are being built in, in order to prove your loyalty, the determination of the greatest nonsense I have ever heard, the EU has no alternative. What happens if the EU breaks? What are you going to do, commit suicide? You don't want to commit suicide, because you need this flossula while you can suck a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59656	People's MP, provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please, I understand your enthusiasm, but I also remind you of your obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59657	Mrs. Comic, I'm not carried on at all. I'm oriented in time and space and very nice...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59658	That doesn't sound like it, MP, as you speak, so I must remind you that there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which we are all bound. You may think you're oriented, but when you say it, it doesn't sound like it. Please, politely and with respect to the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59659	Mrs. Komic, I have nothing against your personal attitude that the EU has no alternative, but last time you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59660	People's MP, we're not talking about political views, we're talking about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The rules of procedure must put all political views in place. Everyone, all 250, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59661	On Friday, you boasted that an opinion was allowed in the National Assembly, so if that part of your interpretation is still in force, let me express myself and express the opposite view of the idea that the EU has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59662	National MP, there is a difference between the opposite opinion and the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The opposite opinion is desirable, and the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges me to punish you. If we can agree now that I'm not punishing you and telling you my opinion...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59663	You're the only one doing your job, Mrs. Comic, I'm not in the National Assembly in order to have sound discussions, I'm here to criticise solutions, to criticise the justice reform strategy, I'm here to criticise and to point out what the background of every change is, I'm here to warn people in time, what can happen if the rules you deliver and which you claim to be honey and milk are uncritically seen. I'm fully aware that someone doesn't like it. I don't mind that someone doesn't like it, it's their personal problem, but I have to draw attention, we differ, I claim to you today in this country, for the EU and for the flossula, the European Union has no alternative, we can identify who is, organized crime, tycoons and they...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59664	Twenty-three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59665	I'll continue next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59666	I don't doubt it. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59667	Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the MPs who participated in today's debate, I thank those who gave their opinion on this bill exclusively from the legal profession, and I especially thank those who are not lawyers, who have made their point of view, and I thank those who have brought critical tones. We are not immune to criticism and this is an indicator of a democratic authority that is able to listen to both positive and critical tones. This bill is another step which the Ministry of Justice took in comprehensive reforms and justice, which we started in 2008 with the adoption of judicial laws and then, and several times in this distinguished home, I told you that judicial reform has several stages, and first it was a procedure of general elections, then a change of procedure, a change of organisation of work and a change of consciousness. This law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, should contribute to the change of criminal procedure that needs to be ensured, both more effective trials, to bring justice faster in a modern way, as it exists in countries around the world, both European and wider. On the other hand, it needs to ensure the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. She didn't flossule when I said this law should contribute to a change of consciousness. Although we have had transition processes in different spheres of our social life, I would say that in the judiciary this process was somewhat delayed and that there was still a way of functioning as it was in our country over the past decades that it was a dominant social property and self-government as a way of functioning the state. We've had this adequate transition to one market economy and respect for the contract. In particular, I believe that the bill we're going to discuss tomorrow will contribute to the law on litigation. This law allows us to achieve the basic goals that we set for ourselves when we start reforming the judiciary, which is an independent judiciary and an independent prosecutor's office, an effective court procedure more determined by fighting organised crime, crime in general and corruption, which is one of the five objectives on which this government is formed. It seems to us that in every move taken in previous years, the Ministry of Justice has just spoken and shown that we are consistent with the goals we set. This law has been working for a long time. There was no hasty attempt by some MPs. Since 2007, I will remind you, when the Code of Criminal Procedure, which envisioned all these institutes, provides for this bill, but not in a sufficiently consistent and elaborate manner as I'm sure, which practice will show, provides for this bill. Even then, we organised a round table in 2007 at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, where all professors involved in criminal proceedings were invited, on the one hand, and on the other hand those who apply it daily in practice – lawyers, judges and prosecutors, where it was concluded that it was necessary to arrange our criminal proceedings in one modern way as it exists in the countries of Europe. The truth is, I'd like to give my opinion to some professors who, unfortunately, are no longer among us, who said that maybe we shouldn't leave the judicial investigation because maybe that's the way to be unique. I don't think that that way we should be unique in the world and that that way we should be different from the rest of the world. A task force has been formed at the level of the Justice Department. As I said, this working group was made up of professors of law school, then people who apply it in practice both judges and prosecutors and lawyers. They were also representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. After that, a comprehensive public debate was held. Opinions of the Council of Europe and the opinion of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights have been prepared. After that, when all these opinions were collected, both internally and in the international public, the task force once again considered each objection and criticism and tried to install it in the text of the law where it deemed it necessary. I will try to sum up objections and criticisms and suggestions and suggestions that have been made here today and some of them will try to clarify or give an answer. First, what's perceived and what's the spirit of this law is that the investigation has moved on to the prosecution. I wouldn't say that by crossing the investigation into the prosecution and all those provisions that we've come up with in the way that it's going to be done, it's led to the inequality of the parties or the inequality of the weapons. It is simply, if the evidence is collected and the defence and the relevance of these evidences takes place in such a way that they will be brought before prosecutors. I would not say that the defense was put in an inferior position for a simple reason that even the prosecutor did not care to conduct one senseless procedure for which there is insufficient evidence or for which there is no reasonable doubt that one person committed this crime. All that I've said should be seen in the context of all the changes we've made at the level of the judiciary and at the level of the court and at the level of the prosecution. There are now disciplinary measures being carried out both at the level of the prosecution and at the level of the court for which the State Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary are in charge, and you have been able to see in several places in the law that if there are certain objections or that there is illegal or irregular work of prosecutors, he can make his remarks and criticisms both before the State Council and before the judge for the previous proceedings which is guaranteed respect for all human rights and during the pre-covery and criminal proceedings. Also, here is the question of separation of the pre-crisis and investigation process and the question of why is it done. For a simple reason, because it's two kinds of procedures. Precinct procedure is a procedure where there are reasonable doubts. When criminal proceedings begin, there is a greater certainty, there is a reasonable doubt, and therefore, when an order is made to initiate proceedings by the prosecution, the initiation of investigations, there are also certain obligations. You yourself were in a position to be convinced during certain actions to state the criminal proceedings or the investigation against you. There were also words here about hearing witnesses, especially within article 300. It's a bill of law. I wouldn't say it affects gun equality if there was a situation where certain witnesses were heard without a call from the suspect. Of course, this is meant for criminal acts of organized crime and war crimes. If we are talking about the criminal acts of organised crime and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it foresees and has in its decisions the perception that these crimes can be more strongly predicted. This provision was on the evaluation of experts by both the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Here, it survived in this bill. I would not agree with the opinion of some MPs if this bill had left the material truth. It simply doesn't stand because it is also in Article 6 whose name is the legality of criminal prosecution. It is provided for in point 4 of this Article that the public prosecutor and the police are obliged to make an impartially clear suspicion of a criminal offence for which they carry out official activities and to examine with equal care the facts which burden the accused and the facts that go in favour. In Article 15 of this proposal, the law also provides that a court may order a party to propose supplementary evidence, or that such evidence is to be drawn up if the evidence is deemed to be contradictory or unclear, that this is necessary in order to ensure that the subject matter of proof is discussed in a comprehensive manner. In Article 16. The draft law, the name of which is the assessment of evidence and the determination of facts, in paragraph 4, provides that the judgment and the solution corresponding to the judgment may be based only on the facts of which it is certain. Also, I'd like to correct some of the MPs who said here that the parties are carrying out evidence. The parties can't provide evidence. The parties are proposing evidence. The only evidence is the court's case. So all they can do is perform in court proceedings. As far as detention is concerned, in Article 211(4), I was sure that it would draw the attention of the MPs, it is also intended to be a basis for the detention of the public. I'm going to tell you quite frankly that this was something that was the subject of a deep consideration of the task force, in which way this foundation for detention could be designed. We were of the view that this might have to be formulated in a different way, but the way to formulate this point, to determine detention, is to take over from the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The question is also asked here – why is the term "arrest" in the law used? For the reason that this term also provides for the European Convention on Human Rights, this very term is why it is taken over as such in this draft law. There was also a question about the protection of a particularly sensitive witness. I must say, I'm very proud of these provisions of the bill, for the simple reason that it's the protection of the faces that have been found, unfortunately under attack, for example. People's trade, or they're minors' faces. I am deeply convinced that the provisions of this bill will be able to protect their personality if they are consistently applied. The question has been asked how to enable the defence of persons who are not such an asset that they can provide it in an adequate manner. You may not be seen enough in this law, but I assure you that during the autumn session, I am sure, before this respected home will be a bill on free legal aid, where these provisions will be further elaborated. You're aware, it's repeatedly pointed out here, that this law cannot be applied unless it is an adequate education of all participants in criminal proceedings, primarily prosecutors, judges, cops, defenses. It's already been done a lot, programs have been designed, especially in those bodies where this law is first applied. These are the prosecutions of special jurisdiction and defence that will represent or claim to represent in these proceedings and, of course, in part and the police. Also, technical conditions are needed. Therefore, this law also monitors and analyses of the effects, where we have tried to determine all that is necessary in technical terms to implement or obtain equipment for the application of this law. In the end, I would like to thank all the members of the task force, whose lead was respected Professor Goran Milic, especially in the part where he was a direct participant of the task force, who he led before becoming the Constitutional Court judge. Without his contribution, I'm sure this bill wouldn't look what it looks like right now. Also, I would like to thank Milan Škulić, a professor of law school, who made a major contribution to the drafting of the law on criminal proceedings, which unfortunately did not see the light of application, but certainly made it possible for the working group that built this bill to be much easier, because this bill was fully accepted by the system of the law and certain provisions found in this law to be adopted in this draft law. Also, I want to thank my colleagues in the court and the D.A., who have made certain suggestions, suggestions, criticisms. I would also like to thank the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because by careful analysis of the provisions of the labour version of the law by the Cassation Court, it is certainly to a large extent paved the way for the working group to come up with this law in such a way that it is absolutely applicable in practice. I look forward to discussing the details. I hope on that occasion I can clarify all the controversial things that have been said today, but which I have seen exist in the amendments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-12-0.u59668	Since no one wants a word anymore, we're finishing work for today. I am concluding a principled search on the draft code. Tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., we continue to work on the transition to the 2nd item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that in the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and have inserted their identification cards, and another number of MPs are present in the hall. I remind the MPs, that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session of the National Assembly shall take place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, in its first position, states that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues within the scope of the rights and duties of these officials from the authority on which they are headed, and which he needs in order to achieve the role and functions of the National Assembly, except at a session of the National Assembly, when, exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may be entitled to attend the session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for a period of up to five minutes, Tuesday and Thursday, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of a number of MPs attending the sitting, and the transition to a further discussion. I ask the Presidents or the authorised representatives who wish to exercise their right under Article 286 to apply. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
