ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59745	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 international MPs. Radiating the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that in the electronic voting system it is found that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that another number of MPs are present in the hall, and that we have a Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly session. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, given that you have received a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the decision to withdraw from the procedure the Rehabilitation Law, I am setting a break in work that will last until 11:30, when we will move to the third item of the agenda, or fourth, and in our work third, that is, to discuss the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. On the basis of article 87, I'm also informing you that we'll be working after 18.00 hours, with the fact that there won't be a break when we continue our work at 11.30. The opening of the point and the debate on the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets will be at 11.30 p.m., so that the Rules of Procedure are still under way. At 11.30 p.m., we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59746	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the principle of the fourth item of the agenda, I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, who is on the way and who will be joining us at any moment, Professor Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science and Branko Totic, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. You've received a bill from the government. You have received the Report of the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that the total time of debate is in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours and that it is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia for one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Konstantin Arsenović, MP of the PUPS; MP Miletic Mihajlovic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Jovan Palalic, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dragan Stevanovic. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Scientific and Technological Development Committee's rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, want a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59747	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this proposal, which is on the agenda, we do not have, so to speak, the problem is that the minister currently defending this law is not present. I'm sure he'll show up here. In there are our parliamentary groups, I would like the shortest possible way to express some of our views in favour of what is the need for the adoption of such a law. So the business secret is a very important category that exists today and is important in the interrelationships of various actions, especially in the field of injury. It represents any confidential information that has commercial value because it represents a secret, which provides a natural or legal person with an advantage over competition. For these reasons, it is important to define its status in mutual relations. So, in today's competition and in the fight for profit, business secret is a key category that needs to be regulated from a legal point of view, but it should also be noted that it has an ethical dimension, so that this ethical aspect should also be discussed and insisted on it, which cannot be regulated legally, but it is very important to discuss and make it a certain code, by certain rules, to raise it to a higher level. This law regulates the legal protection of business secrets from all acts of unfair competition. It is thus possible by means of a business secret to protect different data and information that is very important, e.g. the process of producing an entity, then different research results, a consumer profile that is important in a particular segment, in a particular area, different financial data that are relevant for business, then projects, test results and testing, different production plans, then various formulas in certain areas, etc. At a time of intensive action and communication at different levels and at a time of intensive co-operation with foreign investors, it is very important that we, as a society and a state, arrange a form of behaviour, and also to establish certain obligations in these relations, which means respect for certain standards, rules in business, respect for their business policy, I mean those entities that work with us, because I assume it's a certainty of the plans and results they expect in collaboration with us. This requires some seriousness in behavior and relations with our partners. This implies the ultimate result and respect and preservation of certain data that can be obtained as their partners. That means we can't deal with it in an unsettled way that doesn't suit them. The protection of business secrets, especially under conditions of established corruption, is also a significant issue, because a business secret can be a means of transport and a means of acquiring, so to speak, certain gains, which, again, from an ethical point of view is wrong. On the other hand, it also violates the reputation of both our country and our businesses and other entities, which would cooperate with other investors and for these reasons it is necessary to regulate this in one legally valid way, through the adoption of a law which is supposed to be one framed way of conduct in these business relations. This issue is particularly important in some areas such as the area of drug production, or the area of plant protection, for example, which has led to a special issue of the protection of business secrets, too. This is a general law which, I say, frames and establishes rules of conduct, then sanctions and deviations from such behavior. But special laws have already arranged that, or can be arranged, to more precisely define all these rules of relations that need to ensure the preservation of certain data from abuse. On the legal ground, through this law, there is a basis for civil and legal protection in the event of a breach of business secrets. This bill proposes that the breach of business secrets, that it be sanctioned as an economic offense of a company, or a responsible person in a company. I would say that we, both as a society and as a state, must strive to raise the awareness of our people, especially in business relations and to build a high professionalism, which will provide a healthy relationship and establish one trust in communication with other entities and with our partners. So it's already a higher sphere than the sphere of legal normation of this area, but we can't come to that, of course, simplistic, so to speak, by adopting this law, but it's a long way that involves both education and education and education, so to speak, the younger generations and future staff, who will keep up with their profession, which will hold up to one code and to one ethics that secures the opening of a door that is a safe way to progress. Without that professionalism, we cannot, as I say, reach those partners with whom we can cooperate and work together on sound grounds. This is an assumption that for a safe path and success, so to speak, our business entities, but also the individual himself in our society, because only one high ethic, so to speak, our individual and society in general, provides both trust and a healthy relationship and full communication with other partners, which assumes in the ultimate line a safe way towards one progress. This is the dimension that we must take into account and perhaps through this law and cannot be settled, but this issue cannot be solved only by passing this law, but also by other activities, through other actions, through the education system, through what is education and human development at each level, which is a sure guarantee that we can function in a healthier way in order to make progress in our country and our society. Of course, in the time of settled corruption and some of the other sick conditions of our society and one environment in which we live, we have a problem with this, but this problem will certainly be solved on one hand by perfecting this legal regulation in many areas, including this, and also by other activities that will make us reach a high professionalism and a healthy ethical state of our society, which is the best recommendation for a healthier and more important and, if you will, one relationship with other investors, which will recommend us as partners worth working with. Our SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote certainly for this law, with only one step in the direction of creating a more favourable climate in a normal and healthy business and behaviour and individuals and businesses, and in order to create a different consciousness and create a different obligation towards home where we work, according to the obligations we have before us and on behalf of that entity where we work, where we act, and in the name of the state of which we are an integral part. We're going to vote for this bill and we expect other ambassadors to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59748	Thank you. The minister wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59749	Dear Presidents, respected members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the content of the law discussed today by the Assembly. The law on the protection of business secrets, the basic objective of the proposed law, is to protect confidential information that is legally controlled by a natural or legal person from all acts of unfair competition. Legal protection of business secrets creates conditions to sanction any action of unauthorized disclosure, acquisition or use of confidential information. This promotes competition, fair competition, foster research activities and innovation, create favourable conditions for attracting and maintaining foreign investment. With this law, we want to solve a few problems. You know that the matter of business secrets is the subject and content of a law dealing with certain areas, but this is the first general law relating to business secrets. Because special laws treat business secrets issues compared to different areas of business. As a single general law, the proposed law establishes a legal basis for protecting business secrets from unfair competition in all areas of business and research. This law provides for protection against unfair competition and for data on tests and other data submitted to national authorities for approval, release into the market of pharmaceutical and agricultural and chemical products. The system of protection of business secrets from unfair competition is in line with the standards laid down by Article 39 of the World Trade Organisation Agreement. What was done with the proposed law? The concept of business secrets has been defined, acts of legal and illegal procurement, use and disclosure of information representing a business secret have been defined, civil and legal protection measures are prescribed in case of breach of business secrets. The concept of business secrets. Business secret is considered any information. The word or information that they have or may have a commercial value, because it is not generally known, nor available to third parties, with those words of information protected by its holder by appropriate measures, in order to keep its secrecy and information whose statement to the third party could harm its holder. Business secret shall also be considered as undiscovered test data or other data submitted to the national authorities for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation for medicinal products, medical means, agricultural and chemical products and biocidal products, other data which are special law, other regulation or act by a legal person declared as a business secret. The question is which information can be protected as a business secret. As a business secret, different types of information can be protected, such as: financial, economic, business, scientific, technical, technological production data, then, studies, research results, different formulas, drawings, plans, projects, models, programmes, methods, techniques, notifications or instructions of an internal character. As a business secret, information marked as a business secret cannot be protected in order to conceal a criminal offence, to exceed the powers or abuse of official office or other illegal act or to act as a domestic or foreign natural or legal person, as well as information specifically prescribed by law that they cannot represent a business secret. Conditions for protecting business secrets. It's, first of all, the secrecy of information. Generally known or immediately established information cannot be protected as a business secret. The commercial value of the information - the information will have a commercial value which will be considered a business secret if its holder gives priority to competition. Protection measures for the preservation of secrecy. What specific measures the holder will take to keep it secret depends primarily on the type, importance and value of that information. It is an example of signing a verification contract, marking a confidentiality mark, limiting access to documents or files containing confidential information, etc. In order to protect against unfair competition, no formal registration or decision on the establishment of a business secret is required. The holder of a business secret has the right to transfer the right to use business secrets to another person and to prohibit other persons from obtaining, detecting or using a business secret in a way contrary to the law and good business practices. Legally, the acquisition, use and disclosure of information representing a business secret is considered if it is carried out in accordance with the law, i.e. good business practices, even without the express or tacit consent of the holder. Unlawful is considered to be the acquisition, use and disclosure of information that represents a business secret, if it is carried out without the consent of the holder of a business secret and in a way contrary to the law and good business practices. When it comes to the effects of the proposed law, the proposed solutions will have an effect on all economic operators, natural and legal persons who initiate civil and legal protection proceedings against acts of unfair competition. Protecting business secrets from acts of unfair competition contributes to the legal certainty of all participants in various business, economic and scientific activities and will further motivate them to further improve business and scientific and research activities. The protection of business secrets is also a stimulant for the business of foreign business entities in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law, which is in line with the provisions of the agreement, is a priority established by the legislative plan and is in the capacity to meet the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation. I would also like to point out that this law was conducted in the period from May 10th to May 30th of this year and that, in the context of this public debate, a roundtable on the draft law on the protection of business secrets was held at the Institute of Intellectual Property on 16 May of the same year. The proposals adopted on that round table have been incorporated into the text of the law that is before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59750	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I give my word to the MP John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59751	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that this is a very important law, but the DSS has a number of objections, which we will point out in the debate, both to the concept of the law and to the solutions given here. Of course, in addition to the fact that this is part of the IPR Corps, it certainly could have been, in addition to the Ministry of Education, to take part in the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Economy, because what is largely, the solutions that are largely related here, touched these areas, especially that processal part, which is almost half of the law relating to the protection of business secrets. Generally, the topic of secrecy in Serbia has already been dealt with and dealt with once by the National Assembly when it comes to the Privacy Act, we are now dealing with this law, and it is rather strange that the solutions that have been made here are largely deviating from that concept that was within the Data Protection Act. Of course, there was the state's interest here in the matter of interest, let's say, the dominant company, but what is the basic thing is how it is defined and how it sees the interest to protect it through secrets. It is a key issue now in Serbia, what is actually a secret after these deaths published by WikiLeaks, what is the secret and what is the relationship in Serbia to secrets when we see what is written in these depecs that mainly concern the most, most important state interests. How do we think about protecting business secrets, and we're going to say what gaps are in this law that create the possibility of a breach of business secrets. How to talk in general about the protection of interest in companies and the protection of business secrets, loyalty to companies when we see how the relationship of top state officials, state authorities to state interests of loyalty to the state of Serbia was. These two processes are undoubtedly connected, and when the matter is seen this way, it turns out that the biggest, let's say, the biggest vaults of secrets in this country are not the National Security Council or the Government of private business companies, but these are foreign embassies. Unfortunately, in such an atmosphere, we are talking about such an important law. The law on the confidentiality of data is, as far as state secrets are concerned, something that concerned the issues relating to the protection of data from the state's interest and this law partially touches it and it is much more detailed than this law, Mr. Minister. The basic observation, ours to this law, is that it is general and leaves room not to solve some key problems and by introducing general legal norms, and I'm going to say a little bit later, the business secret is being violated. I'll start with the main remarks we have on this bill. On the one hand, he introduces very rigorous standards concerning the protection of business secrets, i.e. a process body. The state is really committed here to protect the business secret that has been declared by certain companies. But in the norms that you give the possibility of a business secret coming into possession of another person without the consent of a business secret holder, I think it opens up a great opportunity for a business secret to be misused and to come into possession of a person who is not its legal holders. I mean, primarily here, using one of the legal standards of good business practices. Mr. Secretary, it's this Article 7, and you've been talking about it and attitude 2 and it's very problematic, we understand that there are legal reasons that, and legal possibilities for a person who does not keep secrets to come into possession of a secret, without the consent of the keeper of secrets. Such a possibility can be prescribed by law, but it is said to be an option in a way that is not contrary to and with good business practices, it creates enormous problems and is in fact linked to a single issue that is crucial here and which has not been solved by any law, which is a question of movement of people within the business world between companies. I don't see, Mr. Minister, the way you're going to protect the possibility, how the law is going to prevent one person who worked in one company from seeing different information from the manufacturing process to the business strategy, and how tomorrow, with a much better fee, he goes to another company and in various ways, using what is said here, a good business custom, conveys that information to a competitive company. In part, the issue has been touched in the banking area, but in Serbia at all, it is a serious problem. Here will be the most damaged companies owned by Serbian citizens and according to the situation that is now in Serbia, the possibility that young people, professional personnel, are progressing in other companies, may be motivated to give them more, to come into possession of this information. Mr. Minister, the issue of personnel, the issue of loyalty and at all that segment in society, is not properly resolved in Serbia at all. The question arises, and I return to the debate at the beginning, if all these people watched what was published in these dispatches, they saw what kind of relationship state officials have and why they would have loyalty to their parent company, if they would be better paid and if their careers would be better and more successful in another company. This Article 8, Mr. Minister, also touches this issue, and it discusses the issue of good business practices, and says this, in attitude 2, in a way contrary to good business practices, in the sense of this law, means any action done or done to a competitor. Mr. Minister, we don't think this part of Section 2 should have been here. It was only necessary to define through point 6) what is meant to be a violation of good business practices. This, application or damage can be done to the competitor again is one legal standard that will allow for the possibility that, beyond the regulations or norms of this law, some possibility of the business secret he has acquired, or the information he has acquired, to be transferred to another company, because to be honest, classical spying, much less business secrets will be transferred to other companies, rather than the fluctuation of personnel. I don't know why you didn't deal with it, you run a resort that needs to be dealt with, you haven't dealt with this law at all, that question of how to prevent it. That'll be the biggest problem. So the question, unfortunately in a difficult economic situation, those who get more money will be able and will have a wish, in the end, to sell information by switching to another company. Someone who is employed by one company, more is being elaborated, whether his employment relationship will stop, will hardly risk his job to sell information to another company, will be very difficult to risk. This is a serious problem. Of course, corruption, it's one of the serious problems, and when it comes to the issue of human beings and the issue of corruption, these are the basic sources of violation of this law, and the giving of business secrets. We have several other objections regarding the very process of protecting business secrets. In Article 11, Mr. Minister, point 3) is said, damage compensation will include... (incomprehensible), if the injury was done on purpose, and the prosecutor may, instead of compensation for property damage, demand compensation at the level of the triple amount of the usual fee. Mr. Minister, I don't see how, that is, what other motive exists besides intent, what else is possible, except deliberately betraying a business secret. I don't believe that anyone who comes into possession of that information can, out of the blue, transfer that information to another company that is competing with his parent company on the market, especially if he moves into that other company and works on similar jobs. I don't think this norm is really standing here. Now, Mr. Minister, the way to protect business secrets by state authorities is amazing to the extent that the state is engaged to protect some private company's business secret. Indeed, in some segments of civil and criminal disputes, we don't have anything like this. Security of Evidence, we have here submitted an amendment that it is absolutely unacceptable that the entire Institute of Evidence Security stands in this law. So, according to this solution of yours, because of the business secret, the court can access the security of evidence without prior notification and hearing of the person, from whom evidence is collected, by breaking into the premises without his notice, by searching, vehicles, books, documents, and that he will find out only, say, the person from whom the evidence is collected, the judicial solution, the provision of evidence, is presented at the moment of the collection of evidence. I don't see why such a drastic instrument in protection secrets. It's not that, it's primarily the company's interest, why the state would hire its resources to this end to protect business secrets. We think it's quite enough to institute a temporary measure that's defined by Article 13, and the temporary measure is something that we have about to see in the litigation process, but since it's about interest, I mean business companies, we don't think we have to in such a drastic way that the state employs its resources to protect the interests of a business company. Of course, we said that these solutions are extremely general, let's say, in your opening statement, you mentioned the measures to protect business secrets. We think that it had to be prescribed more precisely, at least to list some of the measures that companies could, and this is how it's given the opportunity to choose whatever they want to choose to make something they declare a business secret, to protect, not to say that the very definition of business secrets, and what it can be compared to a business secret, is very broadly set. So it's wide-ranging and the question is whether this could lead to a breach of competition-related regulations on the market itself. In addition, some information that is defined here as information that is spreading as a business secret is unfortunately, and we have had the opportunity to discuss the Business Society Act here, they are already excluded from the possibility of being found out by persons who are directly interested. For example, under the Business Society Act, small shareholders will no longer have the opportunity to access financial documents and financial reports in individual companies. Who here guarantees that many other data concerning, I'm not talking about, reports that have to be published, but I'm talking about internal reports within companies, that someone can say that other data or business strategies can be protected as a business secret, excluded from the possibility that people who don't participate in capital can't be able to find out. Simply, this law allows such a possibility, and in that sense we think that even Article 1 paragraph 2 had to be more precise. So the basic objections are to be made to the possibility that the general norms, in particular too broadly defined good business practices, and through the fluctuation of human beings, the relationship with loyalty, can be transferred to information considered to be a business secret and the fact that this series of provisions is not regulated in more detail, and the state is indeed put absolutely beyond any measure into the function of foreign companies to protect something they consider to be a business secret. Simply, there's one contradiction. On the one hand, you leave a lot of things to come out of the possession of business secret holders, and on the other hand, what someone thinks is a business secret and file a lawsuit that the state puts the whole apparatus to protect it. I think, unfortunately, this law that is necessary, I agree with you, will produce a series of problems in practice, especially because of its generality. You yourself said this was a general regulation in the area of business secrets. I agree with you, but Mr. Minister, I think 20 members really are not enough for one of these important and crucial laws. To conclude, we have submitted some amendments. My colleagues will discuss it further. We cannot support it, but the essential issue today in Serbia is that society, especially by looking at state officials, no longer has any relationship to the concept of secrecy and anything we declare here as a business secret, is absolutely irrelevant, outside of companies, outside the state institutions of business secrets because of their relations with secrets are stored most in institutions that represent interest outside the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59752	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone before me, Mr. Minister, said this law is necessary, but if the laws necessary in Serbia are written in this way, you can think of the laws that are not necessary. For the SRS, this law is important for Serbia, as is the law on maritime navigation. You know that well. I'm sorry to be so open and direct, have you read this law? I'm convinced that you read it so you wouldn't defend it today, you'd make up some work for yourself. You are the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who, by God, has far more important and important jobs these days. Yesterday, a government colleague accused you of protesting 2000 Shipara because you and your ministry are not doing the job properly, as if he were from the Portuguese government, not from Serbia. This can talk about relations in the government and the fact that the Rehabilitation Act has been withdrawn, etc., talks about coherent relations. While relations are like that in the government, the laws that come before us and which you, ministers, have an obligation to defend are similar to what this law looks like. The law is so general that it doesn't say anything in principle. A law like this, I repeat, you didn't even have to bring it up in front of us. There are a bunch of laws in Serbia that touch this area in one indirect way. After the adoption of this law, nothing will change. This law will serve only for abuses and we will try to prove it in today's debate and in the discussion of details. I'm going to ask you some very specific questions. I hope you have an answer for that. It concerns what is written here and what is included in this law. You wanted to say something about this law. You were obliged to revive him. It's the minister's job when he comes to defend a law, to convince us that this makes sense and that you believe it. We're running out of state, we're running out of people. We're talking about protecting business secrets and industrial espionage. Imagine, Minister, we're providing a business secret in a state where we can't keep a job? What's that irony? How do we deal with insignificant things? I'm not saying that the principles of high ethical behavior in business don't need to be installed and raised, but in the state, institutions that have been made for the last 10 years as they are, this is completely unnecessary and this is completely pointless. I'll go through a few members just to tell me what that means. What did the billman want? What kind of message are they sending? Who can be called to this law because of such terminology and formulations? Minister, see, for example, Article 1. How general – Information protected as a business secret within the meaning of this law is considered particularly financial and economic, so you list further information. What is this financial and economic data? Can we know what it is from financial and economic data that will be protected with this secret? Imagine what the unconscious and irresponsible will do, referring to this law, to protect? You have obliged them to write what they need to protect in general company acts. There is a Business Society Act, etc. Now imagine what it's going to do to get into those acts based on this. Today you have Tantalus's troubles to get what the director of a public enterprise's salary is in some poor little municipality, so the Commissioner for the availability of information of public importance, so the courts are involved, and the responsible are paying the fines, so companies pay the fine to see how much the director of a public enterprise receives, which, by the nature of things in Serbia, is making losses. Why would users be interested in that? Why does that foreign interest interest you? When you ask these people how they limit certain services they provide you, they say that these services go to costs or costs with phone bills, salaries, representations, etc. You're now asking how big they are and they're not giving it to you. Imagine what's going to be hidden that way on this. If you can't hide whether you know how long this procedure will take you to get this information, how financially and procedureally and administratively and to burden both the state and the individuals, all interested in this story. You can't write laws like that. Laws must have purpose and purpose, meaning. They have to provide us and improve our quality of life. They cannot be adopted because someone else lives in the EU illusion – we will go there so we need this. You will never go there and we will never go there with you, but we have no right to play with the public and play with the citizens and play with us MPs. Now imagine the irony, in this law you have included a category of industrial espionage. I ask you, Minister, to tell me what industrial espionage is? In order for you to have an industrial spy, you have to make an industry. Can't the state, Minister, which exports corn to deal with industrial espionage. We export corn not because we increase production but because it has good prices, we export what we are forbidden. We mock the people and all those who live here. We're not laughing. We're making fun of the government. Now this government is in the business of industrial espionage. These are for Serbia in which over the last two to three years 200,000 people have lost their jobs, sophisticated things. I'm asking you if industrial espionage, protecting it, can be done by those people who are now on strike, whistles at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Do you know what this is for them? This is a disaster for them, a joke. We throw ourselves out with both the people and these institutions. Imagine, you're dealing with protecting business secrets in a country where workers either don't get paid or receive it after five or six months and contributes if they're paid, they pay, if they don't, the state will. In the last few months of the budget, you've given five billion dinars to settle taxes and contributions for those who were unconscious and irresponsible in state property. Who's gonna help privates in that sense? No one will. I ask you, workers in Serbia today, who are such a position, who will stop him from selling a business secret for ten salaries, which in principle are thousands or 2,000 euros? You so sophisticated laws bring before us MPs, we take citizens and the public time when we deal with something serious. This will qualify us for the World Trade Organization. This will qualify us for investment and a good business environment. You and I both know that's not true. That's why I don't think you should have come here today. You're not the kind of man who could say something about this. You're forced to read. You know this is worthless yourself, but you've agreed to be part of that team that's been here since 2000. Tell me one thing they did right. Tell me also one law that is being implemented in life and in practice, not to mention the laws that we have adopted, which they have adopted, completely unnecessary and will never be applied in life. What do we need all this for? Our country's on fire in the south, and God damn it, I'm reading this morning. They're putting us into witness practice. Imagine, an eyewitness instead of a register, in the middle of Serbia. That's your theme, that's what you have to deal with, you're the minister of this matter and you take it seriously. What documents did you call for? That's what it says in this explanation. You have called, here they are, declarations, or conventions, which essentially regulate things that have nothing to do with a business secret. There is a clear distinction between business secrets and what these documents, or conventions, regulate. They mainly refer to intellectual property, i.e. patents, stamps, geographical origins. It all says, I read. I ask you, Minister, do you know how many such laws have already been passed in Serbia? The list is wider, which I recall from my head: intellectual property, patents, stamps, integrated car, holograms, geographical origin, drug law and medical means, plant protection, etc. Is there still a need to list the legislation that arises from these documents? You had it all, absolutely everything. You didn't need this at all. Or, this if you wanted to protect a business secret, if it's possible today in Serbia at all, then you really shouldn't have called on these documents, which are from what year? Do you know that? Do you know when this Paris convention was adopted? In 1883, 150 years later, we deal with it. It's about the nature of the government that promised us some standards 12 years ago, 10 years ago, not to be wrong. She hasn't established it to this day. As long as they sit where they sit, they won't be in Serbia. That's why he has to be clear with them, with them and with their politics. You choose whether you will continue to be part of this missed policy or you will have your views and attitude towards the state to revise and change. These conventions shall give rise to the rights and obligations that are required by the members of that Union and to trade unions to provide. Imagine a role in the context of business secrets and industrial espionage of trade unions today in Serbia, which are unable to vote for the elemental rights of workers, let alone to protect business secrets, intellectual property, patents, stamps, etc. Now we're gonna take time from the public, allegedly protecting business secrets, industrial espionage. I'm asking you, Minister, next. Here in the law of Article 8. - Contrary to good business practices is particularly considered industrial or commercial spying. Where does this law say what it is? Where does the law say what industrial and commercial espionage is? There are textbooks, and what it says in the textbooks, I can say now. They have introduced one practice, so the other member of every law is a termite, so that's where what's what. In the context of this law, what is industrial espionage? Where's that going to say? If you've defined yourself to introduce it into sublegal acts, why isn't it written here, within what time will you bring sublaws? And for sublegal acts, Europe slaps you. You should, so be it. What's industrial or commercial espionage? Co-workers can help you and tell you. Let them whisper. You have introduced the law, there will be many more words in the discussion in particular, the category of fraud. Cheating is a felony. In a law in which things will be settled before courts in litigation proceedings, the elements of the crime cannot stand. Maybe they can, but when the laws are written by those who write them. It might be different if they were to write them, rather than copy them, translate them, so it all doesn't make sense. Now listen to this, Minister, since you're the Minister of Education, just explain to me what this means, in Articles 13 and 14. Listen to what the geniuses wrote. Article 14. – at the request of a person who makes it likely that damage will occur. Can you tell me what "make a likely possibility" means? And possibility and probably, is that a law thing? That's why I'm saying you haven't read this. If as someone who read this, and as minister of education, let this get in the process, I don't know what else to tell you. The SRS won't say anything more about this. This is ridiculous, so declarative, so general. This doesn't mean anything. And those who are willing to abuse will use this law to make fun of the state, the institutions and all interested parties that are potentially treated by this law. That's why we think this is all wrong and missed and completely unnecessary. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if you pulled this law, like this one, but there's no division of partisans and Chetniks here, so there's no reason to withdraw the law. It would be good for you to pull this off and give this some meaning and some life, to breathe in something that will provide this with practical application. Otherwise, Minister, the registers will still be our eyewitnesses. It will continue to spate over pressure on Serbia to protest in Bujanovac, and your fellow ministers to accuse it is allegedly for educational and educational reasons, and you in the government and we in opposition know why it is done, only we can talk, and you cannot, because of your European path. They'll still block the tracks, Mr. Minister. They will continue to argue with those who are life-longly interested in bringing them into a subordinate position, because they have the support of people sitting in government, and we are going to discuss business secrets. For the SRS, this nonsense is unacceptable. We have no intention of supporting all of this, and we will be very specific in the debate in detail to tell you what failures and gaffs are, or at least those who wrote and translated these things before they were sent to the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59754	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59755	I have to say that this was very inspiring, vivid, as I would say, multi-layer exposure, which spoke a little bit about the content of the law, and more about the general things. Yes, there is. They'll have it for the others. For you there may not be, and you will treat the law this way through amendments and through voting, but this law also has its meaning and meaning. When we talk in detail, you'll see in a way. Because the subject of business secrecy is the subject of the content of many laws that have already been passed, but there was a need to pass one general law. Otherwise, when you mention 1883, Serbia was one of the 11 countries that signed the then convention on the protection of industrial property. The other thing is, in the meantime, we haven't normally done some things, for once again, just to us known reasons. Let me tell you, since we are sure to discuss this very much, I have an article in front of me. TRIPS, if it's necessary, I can quote it, but I'd just like to tell you something, we're not passing this law because of others, we're doing ourselves. Because those companies and those countries that are interested in business co-operation with us, they're asking if you have this law. The other thing is the content of the law. Is it good, bad, like this, like that, you can always discuss it. No law is ideal in itself, but there is absolutely a need to pass this law. We think we've found a measure for one such law. We'll talk today, there'll be more time and opportunity. Let me say one more thing, since you said, about this situation in southern Serbia, you're wrong. You said that, as you said, we can't tell what it is. I was just late for the beginning of this session, as I had a press conference on possible technological surpluses in the areas of education, but a question was asked about protests in southern Serbia. I have made it clear and loud that it is absolutely one abuse of education for political purposes, that it should not be forgotten, and who does not see it is already personal, that the gathering started by intonating the Albanian anthem, that Albanian flags were worn, that the paroles were – we want the diplomas of the University of Pristina, to ignore the fact that the state of Serbia had also delivered textbooks in Albanian and free, that in one school these textbooks had arrived, but were not distributed to students, that it was ignored that a textbook was obtained from Tirana which, in addition to partial changes, in Albanian language, had been made available to them, to ignore the fact that we had done certain things in the area of infrastructure, that we were ignoring the fact that we were making the department of the Faculty of Economics in Bujanovac and many other positive things, to ignore the fact that the Council of Minority Albanian communities were made themselves available in several months in advances, in advance of law, and were used them. Only when the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education finds that they are in line with the curricula and the Serbian programme, they can be used. It's just that it's about that. This second aspect, with my colleague Markovic, I heard from him. There's no misunderstanding between us. Unfortunately, some of his colleagues in the coalition body did not understand the process of publishing textbooks that could be used, so they gave absolutely simple and incorrect assessments. Therefore, with me as minister, there is absolutely no dilemma of what the essence of yesterday's rally was held. And there's no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59756	National MP Dragan Stevanovic, right on line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59757	I'd like you to explain to me now what you said now in your law-related presentation, except what you said in your explanation? You mentioned the Paris Convention and this TRIPS contract and article 39, and you're reading to me. No need, I've got it on me. We've dealt with it. You didn't say anything about the law, because I believe you know you can't say anything. This law has no essence. If he had the essence, he wouldn't be in 20 members. It would be written in accordance with the rules that we have defined, which you have defined, how the laws are written. You have kilometre sentences that are pure abstraction and nothing that you can materially grasp. That's the methodology for which you've defined yourself. You can't convince us that this makes sense when it doesn't mean anything. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, since the law has the essence, what does it mean – the learned likely possibility? Who are you going to charge for and go after? In these circumstances, Minister, you predict that you can pass through the executive procedure, as it is said, a court solution – to dig up apartments, block accounts, take records of value, and make everything so abstract, unproven and without material basis. I'm not a lawyer, but this is obviously from the plane that it's pointless, that it's without essence or soul. One more thing, Minister. I didn't tell Bujanovec you shouldn't talk. As far as Minister Markovic is concerned, his statements have been made public. What he said and who he was guilty of. I said the government is reluctant to talk and keep quiet about the problems at KIM, in the north of KIM. It would be nice if in the last 10 or 15 days someone remembered to call us and talk together about the problems that await us 16 in two days. The SRS will be present downstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59758	Two minutes. Do any of the representatives or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use their right to speak in this part of the session? If so, please sign into the electronic system. There are no reports. In that case, I would like to inform you that, according to Article 96, they are a position. 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written statement, were submitted by the parliamentary group DSS, the SRS parliamentary group, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the ZES parliamentary group. We move to a part of the session that takes place right to the word, and according to the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the principle of the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. The first reported is National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. After her, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59759	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to start with something that the minister has consciously or unconsciously just said and that depicts fantastically how this government works. Mr. Minister, if you don't believe me, look for the stenograms. You said the following -- our partners who want to invest here, ask if we have that law. What does the law say? We can talk about it, whether it's okay or not. The point is marketing. We've got the law. What does the law say? Oh, my God. That's what you said, look at the stenogram. I think others have noticed. My job is Freud, I notice. I've really read this law, and I have to say, I'm very surprised. Why am I surprised? The law does not follow this procedure that we have had the opportunity to follow these last month, reading Wikilix, which everyone in our state leadership is really very closely following, giving state secrets and selling Serbia's interests to foreign embassies. Wikiliks has made it possible for us to get to know this procedure in detail, followed by all the order, and President Tadic and his ministers, including Mr Borko Stefanovic, who tells us very often what he doesn't believe in here. It's interesting that they don't step down from this procedure and answer to everyone. What's important and what I have to say as well is that it seems that this procedure that I've talked about a little while ago is fully in accordance with the Constitution and fully in accordance with the laws, because it's not a public prosecutor, although all the evidence is public, although everything is fantastically transparent, as you like to say, it seems to be the reason why it's not being advertised and declared a business secret. I see the chairman is watching me. I'm totally in line with the agenda. It's just, I have to continue with one dilemma whether today after what WikiLeaks published, we can even talk about what it is to be a secret. Especially, can we talk about what a business secret is? Of course, we can't talk about it because this law, which deals with this matter, and it's not a matter that deals with this matter, it deals with business secrecy and protection against unfair competition, and in that area in which it's not regulated, and it's not regulated in the elements of the Law on Economic Society, then the Law on Plant Protection, then the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means and the Law on Trade. So you say in your explanation, but I know at least a few other laws, let's say, the Biocidal Assets Act, where it's very precisely arranged what a business secret and procedure is and how it is protected. That's why I'm saying that in the law of 20 members, which is very principled, you've made a precise statement here, and I'm completely in agreement with you, it's very principled, and it's often on the verge that it's not in line with what it says in the Biocidal Assets Act, which came to my mind like that, and I know it very well. So it's really very difficult to arrange this matter with that law and that law. Of course, you're back in your argument about it, because of the foreign partners we're doing this, you gave a partial answer. First, that Serbia actually does not have an industry, to talk about what would be business industrial secrets and similar things. But it's interesting that you don't define what industrial secrets are. It remains in the literature, and it just seems to me that it would be very instructive, because I noticed that in several laws that we had here you have something that explains the terms, not to say the terms, because then we return to what you and the MPs discussed last week, when we talked about the language that you use in the laws and which, otherwise, is very scrupulous and not Serbian. This should be said because practice shows more and more that we are right, which is what my colleague Stevanović was saying and what's being published in the media today is a typical example of what we're talking about. Furthermore, I come up with the next problem this law is trying to sort out in some way, and obviously it can't solve it, because the problem is much wider than the law, which is loyalty. Loyalty as a very broad term, loyalty to the state, loyalty to his business, loyalty to the company, in the company where a man works and his profession. As some people understand loyalty, we obviously see on WikiLeaks sites, which is in this law, otherwise, matter regulated by members of 7 and 8, so it would be good to see how much this is consistent with what we're reading these days. In fact, this law will have a big problem with applying the moment it enters practice. It's simply that the problem of the movement of personnel by companies cannot be regulated in this way, by this law. That's what Mr Palalic said, the banks have partly started to regulate the issue in some way, binding that after two years someone can't go from one job to another, because it's only natural that high professionals in their jobs come in contact with a lot of secrets, which and how they can place those who offer them more. Here, we see it through WikiLeaks. Whoever we are, we are his followers. Can companies even protect themselves this way? We're not talking about industrial espionage again, of course, because it's regulated by some other law. But can companies at all be protected from such a movement of personnel and the placement of what is the professional secret of another job in a new company with a higher salary, necessarily, and other benefits? If I read this bill, and I think everyone needs to read it several times, I can tell you that I can't protect myself, based on your law, there's no way to protect any company. This law is so general and it has so many phrases that are not legal. I am a pedagogic by profession, when I have to ask the question – what does good business practice mean to you? Do you and I mean the exact same concept of good business practice? Then someone who's a lawyer and knows the legal standards must only ask you. What's a pity to the competition? I'm going to declare one thing to harm the competition, and you're going to obviously focus on another thing. I would like the laws to be precise, so that by damage we both mean you and me and all those who read this law, and they need to regulate one of their rights, we mean the same thing, and that's done precisely by writing it in the laws. It's completely unclear to me why you're involving the state in all of this. You said in part – your foreign partners are looking, so they realize that you are a serious competitor in this story. So you include a country that now includes all its resources to protect the business secrets of a particular company, possibly by the side, because apparently domestic companies are not up to all of this. If you had a chance to see that list of the most successful Serbian companies, how they rank against the world's most successful companies, then you have to see that what I'm talking about makes a lot of sense. Do you think that what you wrote in this law, that the police have the right to break into someone's apartment without him being notified, blocking accounts, searching the apartment and doing everything you wrote in the law? Do you think that's the way the state should fight someone's business secret? I find this completely inappropriate. I suppose, for example, the law that was on the agenda today, which was magically withdrawn, the Rehabilitation Act, maybe these elements could be introduced into that law. To be perfectly clear, the DSS thinks this is a very necessary law. We believe that this law is very important because it needs to be arranged one area, but that this law, in the way you wrote it, not that it will not edit the area, but will cause subsequent problems by its application. Please, once again in the end, the language in use is the Constitution prescribed language, Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Write laws in Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59760	Nine minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59761	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, of course, the law is passed, as my predecessors have said, as pointed out by Mr. Stevanovic, in an atmosphere that is certainly not common, not only because of what we all read on Wikilix, but also what will happen at 16. But we're going to focus on the law and we're going to prove clearly and concretely that it's a law that's inadmissible, that's our first offense, and the second thing is, of course, that it's a law that's written, slightly said, in a hurry. I will immediately give you concrete proof of what this is about and I will compare it to dozens, if not hundreds of laws that we have studied here and which have been done in one other way, as regards the accompanying documentation that speaks of so-called. compliance of Serbian legislation with EU legislation. In particular, you here state the reasons for the passing of the laws by emergency procedure and the main reason or the fact that this is a compliance with EU rules. Now I'm asking you specifically what EU regulations are? There isn't. You don't even have a table, you don't even have a directive, you don't even have a directive, you have instructions, regulations or decisions, anything often stated by other lawmakers in this assembly, but only one sentence speaks for a law that has twenty members and has several pages of reasons to comply with EU law. So, for us in the SRS, it's completely unclear what you mean. I can assume, with the help of logical, linguistic and systematic interpretation, that it is the right of unfair competition. You, not personally, of course, but the one who brought it together and defined it a little shyly mention the definition that this is about introducing order on the market, i.e. to prevent unfair competition. If so, and it is obvious that because you mention it several times in the reasoning of the law, then you should have written the following – there is a member of the Treaty establishing the European Community from 1957, so on. The Treaty of Rome, it's an art. 84th and 85th, which regulates unfair competition and prevents it. So you could have done that. Either you were able to renumber those members of the 1997 Amsterdam Treaty or a valid Lisbon Treaty that already renumbered it to other numbers, to say you're calling for it. So there is no appeal to European law at all, except for one quack of calling that should convince us that it is the need for an emergency procedure. I think it's a big and legal and fundamental mistake and it can't be said that it's right and appropriate and that the law is serious. I'm going to tell you plainly, as one constructive remark, means no malpractice, because you know we're against the European so-called. The way of Serbia and yet it is inappropriate for you, and it is devastating for us from the SRS, who are apriors against the EU, in economic, political and any other sense, to tell you from the ruling coalition what to do, so that is one way, otherwise, that is repeated in several laws. Also, the second foothold of this law that we have seen is the Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, or so on. It's Travis. We say again that it is a hasty and inappropriate application, because, as far as we are concerned, believe me, we have carefully read and consulted experts on this agreement, this is an agreement that applies to members of the World Trade Organisation. Serbia is not a member of the WTO and it is not known when it will be and whether it will be. So, it's a similar situation to the EU and similar manners are seen again, legally, to apply something that applies to members of an organisation, in this case it's the WTO, in the case of so-called. The regulation and the EU directive, it is the EU. So it's a legal confusion, it's about introducing manners to pass laws that are inapplicable, not only in practical life, as Mr. Stevanovic said, but also in a legal sense. Also, as far as practice is concerned, as regards unfair competition and industrial espionage, which is mentioned here as one of the basic reasons of this law, we have to admit that it is a single approach which is also unrealistic, slightly said, because, you know, if you have a Commission decision to protect competition that this Belgian firm is Delez, which has bought Delta Maxi, that does not violate the position of equal market participants, i.e. that she is not a monopolies, then this whole law becomes slightly absurd because it is about preventing the formation of a dominant and monopolies position, and you will admit that secrets and such regulation, as is present in this law, cannot prevent it. So, it is that, and I will be absolutely concrete, that European firms, just like Delez and other EU firms, do not respect the regulatory European law, so that this law will not be able to prevent it, and that is clear when you look at the fact that Delez took over as much as 70% of the market in Belgrade, 30 percent in Serbia, etc. So these are some remarks that show that it is simply a law that is inapplicable. Also, our concrete objection is to regulate secrets. We think that this is too extensive and that it was necessary to specify specifically what is meant by it, because this is how we are going to come to an interpretation, in legal and in any other sense, which may be one kind of abuse. You have to keep that in mind because, again, we are going back, for example, to these companies, such as Delez, which not only abuse the monopoly position, but also abuse it to violate certain contracts on working relations or some contracts on co-operation with suppliers, etc. So it's a law that needs to be done, first of all, about so-called. Consistency with European law, against which we are and EU accessions, but this is one remark that shows that the law is based on one improvisation, because there is no table, there is no harmonisation, there is no mention of any directive, no basic members of the Treaty of Rome, of the Treaty of Lisbon and of any contract that regulates the right of competition, to which you are repeatedly called in the law. Our second observation is that the law is in fact inapplicable in this kind of market relationship. In that sense, we're calling again the Delez case and taking over the Delta Maxi. We think the law should be withdrawn from the procedure, done and, especially in members who regulate the definition of secrets, precise and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59762	Seven minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59763	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister is gone, he has come out for a moment, likely to return, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS considers this law necessary, but that the bill is unsettled, incomplete, that in some of its members he is deeply corrupt and that he will allow great abuse. On the other hand, in a country like this, we haven't been able to protect much more serious information and secrets, but that girl's information everywhere, and some things within the state, about the attitude of some politicians to the state, we find out from all kinds of websites. We're getting some information on the state of the country through foreign printed media. This speaks of the state and attitude of the current government towards the state and serious matters. I'll talk about that part of the law relating to the protection of business secrets related to medicines and medical means. In the light of the law, you refer to it as one of the complementary laws on which this law is based. When one of these laws is written, then these laws must be read, the laws this law is based on. Why am I saying this? Because in Article 20. The proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is like this: "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". "That nobody slows it down. Gentlemen, have you read the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices? If you had read it, you would have seen a 230th member say, "Articles 31 and 32 of this law for drug manufacturers for the market in the Republic of Serbia apply from the date of the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU." So they have a business secret. The law applies the day Serbia joins the EU. When is that, what day, what year is that? Is that bidding? Have you read Article 232 which literally states: "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, except for Article 101 which enters into force on 1 January 2012. I suppose the basic question is the harmonisation of the bill with other legal acts, if you are already referring to these laws. How do you propose to comply with these laws? The third thing I'm going to talk about, and I'm going to go back to medications and medical supplies, when I mentioned that some members of this law are deeply corrupt, and that's what my colleagues were talking about, see article 14 that has a lot of objections. To me, this article 14 resembles that famous saying in the Serbian people: "two without a soul, a third without a head". That's how it's going to be under this law: trespassing in apartments, business rooms, seizure, kidnapping, overruns. That's what this law is all about. So don't worry about what's appropriate for this society at all. A few more words about the provisions of this drug and medical law. You remember the famous affair that continues today, where the state budget is damaged for what is suspected at first of all, at least one million and six thousand euros. So the famous story of getting the vaccine. The whole affair was made about that story and trying to cover it up. But I don't think so. It was negotiated with two companies. One of these companies asked to sign a confidentiality agreement, which also refers to what this law is talking about. The Ministry of Health and the Republical Institute of Money, budget funds, did not want to sign the confidentiality request. Why didn't he want to? So that he could unintentionally spend the funds, not to buy those 4.5-euro vaccines, as offered by the company, but to buy eight euros and damage the state budget by a million and 600,000 euros. The current law on confidentiality of information contained in the Drug and Medical Devices Act has not been applied and is not being applied today. That's how it's gonna be with this law. What you write is simply inapplicable, because it's unspeakable and because it's written for certain groups of people. It would have been better if you had withdrawn this law from the procedure, as you pulled one law out of the procedure at 9.45 today, not telling anyone about the reasons for the withdrawal. You just pulled him out. The assembly session has been postponed for an hour. No one would have gotten the crown off their heads if you'd done it with this law, because it's no good. The DSS can't support a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59764	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. After her, there is the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on the protection of business secrets. We're discussing this law in an emergency procedure. The main reason for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure is that the government has cited compliance and compliance and compliance with international obligations and compliance with EU rules. We ask – what EU regulations do we need to comply with, what is not seen in this bill? So there are no rules in this law. Also, in an explanation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has stated that the adoption of this law stems from the need for legal harmonisation of the protection of business secrets, Article 39. Agreements on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, etc. "Trop" agreement. For the sake of the public, to say that Trip's agreement is one of the agreements adopted by members of the World Trade Organisation. Only in the region of Southeast Europe is Serbia, Montenegro and BiH not members of this organisation. Although according to EU officials, Serbia is breaking records at the speed of answering the EU questionnaire, it meets all the tasks that the EU is putting ahead of it, and in most cases at the expense of citizens, the EU is constantly moving the date of possible admission into the EU. It has long been clear to Serbian citizens that Serbia's EU accession is an unattainable goal of the ruling coalition, and Serbian citizens are less and less seeking it. The SRS is urging the ruling regime to immediately withdraw the process of Serbia's EU bid and thus halt this suicide policy of breaking the Serbian state. It's obvious this kind of policy has suffered a total defeat. The SRS has been warning all along about the intent of Brussels and Washington that are taking KIM from us openly. SRS delegation in northern Kosovo will be 16. The 09th and support Serbs who courageously defend what is ours, because that day, Hashim Thaci, with the support of Brussels and Washington, will try to kidnap the Serbian crossings Jarinje and Brnjak. This law has many shortcomings, many shortcomings, which my predecessors have spoken of, but this law, among other things, does not follow the procedure followed by Wikilix these days. We have witnessed daily, which is confirmed by WikiLeaks, that what our president, Mr Vojislav Seselj, has been saying, and everything the Serbian radicals have said in this Parliament, that this is what has been achieved and achieved. You have seen that practically every meeting at the US Embassy runs by mentioning the names of Dr Vojislav Seselj and The Hague tribunal. I would mention another "Wikilix" affair besides everyone else, which is that France said Serbia can't join the EU until it recognises the independence of KIM. This was published by Mr. William Kenart of the US Embassy on 11 January 2010. I will now move to law and say that there is no doubt that the provisions of this law on the protection of business secrets can be misused in the worst possible way, primarily by state authorities, public enterprises, but also by hundreds of agencies that the government has set up. Citizens and journalists often call on the Law on free access to information of public importance from public authorities and ask for information from tender documentation and contracts on public procurement of goods and services provided by those authorities. The Authority’s manager will then, with the application of the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets, reject the request of the applicant and deny him the right to copy, seek documentation which, according to the principles of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter, is an information that must be disclosed to the public. There have been cases before that the competent authorities have failed to comply with the laws that existed before this bill. How do you do that? By entering into the contracts a clause that the text of the contract cannot be made public without the consent of the other party, i.e. the companies which are the Contracting Party and which is the winner of the tender. Such a procedure is contrary to the spirit and principles of the Law on free access to information of public importance and to the current practice of the work of the Commissioner for Information it is possible to see that such solutions in the second-degree procedure are very often annulled as illegal. This law will be only the wind in the back of public enterprises that will cover up their business, and above all the purchases measured in billions of dinars. It is clear that there is no transparency in business and that is the opposite of what the Serbian government and individual parties are announcing these days, when they say they will depolitise and departisate public enterprises. But not to say that the SRS only tells stories, without arguments and facts, I will point to a concrete example that can cost this country dearly and all its citizens if the case moves to court in Strasbourg. These days, the SRS parliamentary club addressed with its possible documentation by citizens who asked the state-owned company Teleko Serbia for a specific contract in 2009 that regulates the rights and obligations of Telecom's service "Mondo" and the company Dragan Gilas "Emousn Production". Telecom rejected a request for access to information, with scandalous reasoning that it was a business secret and that the contract could not be made available to the public, as it would endanger the interests of Emosena, or Dragan Gilas. Acting on the appeal, the information officer annulled this solution and brought a new one, requiring Telecom to deliver the contract within three days. "Telecom refused to execute the trustee's solution and was fined with 20,000 dinars first, and then with 180,000 dinars, means a total of 200,000 dinars and that the absurdity is even greater, to this day, the solution of the trustees is not executed. The Serbian government, which is legally obliged to implement this solution, by forceful means, will not give me anything for a year on this issue, and Telecom continues to represent the wrong and illegal thesis, where business secrets are concerned. So this was just one living example, how in Serbia, namely Telecom Serbia, run by Branko Radjujko, the Democratic Party, treats the issue of business secrets. Finally, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that there should be one law on business secrecy, but this law in this form does not, because this law is inaccurate, unclear and inapplicable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59766	Nine minutes used by the MP's group. The word is a folk letter from Verica Radet, followed by Parliament MP Dragan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59767	Ladies and gentlemen, somewhere recently it said that Serbia is obliged to pass a law on whale protection under the so-called agenda of European law. Indeed, a healthy man wonders why we need this law when we don't have whales in Serbia and then we get a law on protection, which we are discussing today, a law on the protection of business secrets, which is mainly about the protection of industrial secrets here. Then, since it is clear that in Serbia we have as many industries as whales, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not, or is not proposing, the assembly majority does not adopt laws with the intention of improving anything in this country. You ministers said earlier that you were bringing wine, not to propose this law because someone is asking you to, but because we need it. It is simply not true, and besides, what you wrote to us, which is black in white, you say – the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure are to meet international obligations and comply with the rules of the European Union. This is what has been following us for a long time and you cannot or will not realize that there is none of this so-called European path, you will not realize that this European path is devastating for the Serbian national interests, for the citizens of Serbia, for the state of Serbia, you continue to collapse, and here we are dealing with some laws that look like everything but are not like the law. This is not the first law, Mr. Minister, is absolutely right, colleague Stevanovic, when he drew attention to the fact that this is too general. There are none of these members, no characteristics of the legal norm. Your colleague's head is spinning, but really, here's to assuming she's a lawyer, let her tell me some lawyer so that he can apply this strategy to the declaration, whatever we can call it, we just can't by law. But it's already been seen. You're talking about protecting business secrets. You gentlemen don't have one business or state or official or military secret, but 11 years in the state of Serbia. Everything that could have been given away has been given away. NATO has all of our military secrets, the UN tribunal has all the secrets of the archives of the justice security that existed in Serbia. You have secrets only to the citizens of Serbia, and you are open to all these Serbian enemies in the white world. They give away all the secrets. Say it's not like that. Say it is not true that UN investigators entered all possible archives in Serbia and took everything they needed, and when they are looking for someone, let's say, like us from a team that helps prepare the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj, then Dragan Sutanovac says you were supposed to be in the government, he estimated that it is not of interest to defend Vojislav Seselj, to obtain files relating to Alexander Vasiljevic, otherwise known for being responsible for many war crimes, including those in Vukovar. It's your relationship to secrets, state, official, business, whatever you want. You didn't even have any personal secrets compared to the American ambassadors, Wikiliks told you everything. You went, you were racing, you were talking about each other, you were doing each other behind your back, you were saying what we said from the Serbian Radical Party and here in this Parliament, you were telling us that it wasn't true, but now Wikilix has published all these dispatches, and now I'm going to ask you about some dispatches, to explain to me in the context of this law. Did Wikiliks, a graduate from January 28, 2008, hurt the school's business secret because Manter wrote that Toma Nikolic had bought a degree in college, that he was functionally illiterate and could only use four out of seven declines. So, is this where the business secret of the university that sold his diploma to Tommy Nikolic was injured? You are, and this is also very interesting for you, I suppose, as a minister who is also responsible for higher education. Did Mr. Manter hurt Delta and Miroslav Miskovic's business secret when he, as he stands in Wikiliks, said on 9 September 2008, Grubacic claimed that Nikolic had decided to support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement after the meeting, at the end of August with President Tadic, who is said to have been prepared by the owner of Delta Miroslav Miskovic. Is the business secret of Miroslav Miskovic injured because Manter, as well familiar with all these events, he and Tadic formed SNS and here, so what we were telling me admitted that Delta and Miskovic were involved with the money, of course. Let's say another depecate since 16 October 2008, also in the context of the proposal for a law on business secrecy. Also, he said in the dump, there are signs that the SNS is receiving access to financial resources to support the party. According to a well-positioned and reliable journalist, Serbian tycoons Miroslav Miskovic and Milan Beko pay SNS well. That's what Manter said, too. Did he touch Miskovic and Beka's business secret? No, he touched on the business secret of him as an employer, i.e. the US, the Boris Tadic regime and, of course, these tycoons who all participated in the formation of SNS together to try to break the SRS and, of course, the state of Serbia. For us, the questions we ask ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia are treated here as a business secret. Here, I'll ask the secretary to prepare how many of our questions are left without an answer. So, all you're not interested in is knowing the public you're declaring it business, official, military, etc. In secret, I speak only to the public and to the citizens of Serbia. Is the business secret, Canet Subotic frog, who told reporters a few days ago in a video address that he financed DS and Ruzica Djindjic. Is that why he is inconspicuous with the authorities of the Serbian state. Is it a business secret where the Minister of Agriculture is located? We were called by the Malanaris from Bajina Basta and last night and this morning, they say they can't make contact with the Ministry of Agriculture, because they've been told, and I'm now your colleague, Mr Dusan Petrovic, asking if it's true and whether it's a business secret, that he went somewhere into the white world to watch a game and that he'll come back to talk to the raspberries, only after that game. Is that possible? Are they, in fact, Borko Stefanovic is here, when we insisted on discussing the problems at KIM and what he is there with Edith Tahiri agreeing and signing, he said here in front of MPs, so what kind of negotiations would it be if they were public and what came out of these secret negotiations, the customs stamp and customs service for two days in the Cyprus state of KIM. Where are you from the government? Yesterday, Mr. Bogdanovic repeated on a television show as Kalimera - injustice, injustice, and what will you do? We from the SRS will be down Friday with citizens, with our people, with Serbs. Do you have any messages from the government, since you can't leave, or say we're passing on what the government is going to do to protect the Serbs on KIM, or is it still your business secret, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59768	People's MPs, we've been breaking the Rules of Procedure together for 10 minutes, and I've been patiently waiting for each sentence to touch the subject of the agenda, which you are obliged to explain, by article 107. Your will not to do so forces me to remind you and to warn you that you are still talking about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59769	I've been talking all the time about Article 1st Section 2 and Article 19. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59770	Don't speak, People's MPs, because if you were speaking, I wouldn't need to remind you that you've interfered with the mind of your obligations as a People's Messenger, which is to speak about the subject of the agenda. Carefully listening and patiently waiting for you to remember your obligations, I was forced to remind you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, mocking procedures in the National Assembly and trying to carry on, not listening to the explanations of the chairman. Now I warn you to talk about the agenda, about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59771	Thank you for your patience. Article 19 says – It will be fined for a commercial offence with a fine of between 100,000 and three million dinars of a company or another legal person, or 50,000 to 200,000 dinars, a responsible person in a legal person, if he violates this law. My question to the minister, will all those I mentioned during my debate be punished in accordance with this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59772	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. I can only express regret that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been applied in time and that we have allowed the last 11 minutes together at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, I will no longer allow it in the name of patience and parliamentary practice, because it is a shame to mock procedures. The word is Vladan Jeremic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59773	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the domain of protection of information in the economy, and in particular in certain types of business, there should be laws, standards, regulations, instructions, methods and norms that are being developed and specified, starting with the requirements of time of state structure and modern level of science and technique. I'm sure we've all realized a long time ago that at the modern level of the development of a society of information maybe the most expensive goods and it's not said in vain that whoever owns the information owns the world. After all, every administrative decision is based and is worth the information it has been made. However, the problem is not only that criminal elements or groups are rich at the expense of criminal activities, but that ultimately leads to the undermining of the entire economy and the state. It is not necessary to specify examples of economic damages that companies, banks and similar institutions may suffer due to losses, deformities and leaks of information in their processing systems. The conclusion is only one, it is necessary to provide security of information, and therefore, entities and entrepreneurial activities, become participants and users of the international exchange of goods and knowledge, of course, making profit from all this, and each commercial facility must build its own system of protection of information on the basis, starting with the purposes of the facility, size, conditions, type of activity and so on. With all this in mind, one variety of potential threats to information, complexity of structure and functions, as well as the participation of man in this technological process of processing information, objectives and protection can only be achieved by creating a system of protection of information, precisely on one basis, based on a complex approach to the whole problem. To the truth of will, each one in his own case must establish the level of secrecy needed and, of course, it may not even be too burning and establish more secrecy than objectively necessary, but that the case is vice versa. Of course, it's not always the same level of secrecy in different legal entities, somewhere it's just about protecting certain data, somewhere more of them, and somewhere it's going to be about protecting formulas, inventions, somewhere it's about data that everyone can find, if they even try a little bit. After that, it is necessary to check whether the level providing the legislator's provisions or not satisfies that. Of course, it checks out, as always, ends negatively. Only after that, there's one final job left, and there's currently a need to create conditions so that all of this doesn't just remain a dead letter on paper and hence, and our general grudge for one such bill. Of course, there should be a set of different measures, from those of the organization, to all those who follow. Generally observed, Serbia's legal system, it can be concluded that we are still quite far from some of the declared goals of open society that are allegedly seeking. Perhaps the basic problem is that it is not sufficiently clear procedure, i.e. the process of classificationing certain information under that designation in secret. It is certainly also a key lack of existing legal rules. So it often happens that by some sublegal act of a certain authority, they determine the basis of such a procedure, without any content control, but only through the indication of acts that can be given the already famous code of secrecy by automation. We have already had the opportunity, unfortunately, to make sure that in Serbia there is one real powder of regulations in the area, and it is certainly even denser, if they would include regulations that regulate the procedure for placing certain information under that label in secret or perhaps the process of opening the information that bears this label. Therefore, the non-compliance of legal and sub-legislative acts with the exceptions set out in the Law on free access to information of public importance, which are as such and taken over from certain international documents and comparative legal experience, as well as the possibility for certain specific laws to introduce new exceptions in specific areas, certainly this is a particular problem in such a legal system. What I'd like to point out is that it's a particularly infamous chapter, a story we're talking about today, and of course, it's a chapter that takes up our unfortunate privatisation process and active participation, even some of the state services in it. I suppose the public is aware of the case when a successful businessman, when members of a service waited on the payment ramp in due time and then brought neither guilty nor obliged to an informative conversation, and at the same time in the capital began selling companies for which the detained businessman was interested and whose purchase and headed to Belgrade. There are many examples and names and names, but let the subject be this bill. What is necessary, in our opinion, is that the law that would have been adopted and which would have really been essentially allowed to protect a business secret, should be made up of a single tendency to strike a balance between citizens' rights, to have free access to information and the need for individual data that are vital to the state or to the firm to be preserved as a secret, because putting them in the eyes of the general public, would also endanger the functioning of the state itself. The question of the position and behaviour of the authorities because behind such acts are often hidden some of the actions that are not exactly on the legal side of the law, which confirms that each government feels like a mushroom, i.e. the best succeeds in the dark. Finally, our legislation does not know some of the provisions that would allow, at least as far as the public is concerned, the presentation of information, but which are related to the detection of cases of abuse in certain economic operators. For example, in England, there is an institute called the so-called Institute. The faces of the Whistle-Blowers or the blowers in the whistles, but it obviously still takes time to come up with something like that. What's the need, too? It is necessary for the state and those who represent some political elite in this country to see finally the importance of meeting one of the online legal standards that would allow citizens, above all, to learn what they have as holders of sovereignty, as taxpayers, to know and at the same time protect the state and its vital interests. Only then, when one normal balance is established between these two opposing rights will some basis be established for building a modern state that we all seek. Until then, it's all Sizif's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59774	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, and after it, a folk envoy, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, our authorised representative, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, said in his opening statement that the SRS considers the government unseriously approached this problem because this law that we have ahead of us, we will show it through the amendments that we have submitted, I will talk about some concrete, general provisions, talking about the fact that it was brought only to meet what is necessary and the reasons for the necessity of passing the law, and in fact some fundamental things are not separated, which concern intellectual property, because, you will admit, business secret is a kind of intellectual property and something that we already have in the accompanying and valid laws that Mr. Stevanovic mentioned. So stamps and patents are also some sort of business secret and intellectual property, but they're being held at the Department of Registration and they're being protected by law. We passed these laws, and how will you protect the business secret when in fact it does not only refer to what you have spoken about or tried to specify Article 4, but is in the broadest sense the word business secret, which is what the former Minister for this thieving privatisation Vlahovic would say "nou hao", because that term is used in the business world, how to do business, how to make profit and how to not be discovered by competition. How, then, will someone who is seriously involved in Serbia's work now count on when there are no sanctions in this law? You're offering a litigation procedure in case something like this happens, otherwise we have this law on litigation on the agenda and the minister was yesterday and we talked about it, but you ignored the fact that this is a very dangerous thing, giving away business secrets and that it's a serious crime. My colleague, Jojic, who is an exceptional culprit, our MP and former minister, helped me find which one is a member of the Criminal Law. It is a member of 240, where both nicely and in the first, second, third and fourth positions states that prison sentences are intended to give away business secrets, and you should have also incorporated it into this law, which some other countries have done that have passed the law to the opposition secret. So there won't be any family now, and if the Serbian citizens think they don't know what to do with this, how everyone will be protected, from those who deal with some petty trade to large companies, and believe that they won't because so-called. Business espionage and those who are dealing with it analytically, so here I am as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, where in regular reports, both the MUP and the BIA have special chapters on this, so on business in Serbia. They know very well, I mean the agents of both the CIA and the MI6 and the Germans and all the others with which the official state of Serbia and the BIA has signed a co-operation agreement, that some agents who are trained and have small micro-cameras so they paint contracts, as there are some scenes in Hollywood films, are already absolutely available to those who are on one side destroying the sovereignty of the country, which Tadic's regime legally accepted to do here, and you have one such case, and that is why we have a great fear and a cold on the eve of the day and what the villain Thaci announced. You have a warning of that kind from someone who's been acting as a company in the KIM area. You remember, Mr. Secretary of that, it was 2005. It was some alleged German pharmaceutical house, which was three BMD agents who came to the conclusion that Hashim Thaci and the other villain, Haradinaj, were dangerous villains, that was before Dick Marty's report, that they were dealing with human trafficking, weapons, drugs, and that our southern province, according to their report, was adopted by the German Bundestag, otherwise one of the most dangerous areas on the planet. Instead, as we warned you then, Serbian radicals, to react, to move more aggressively, to seek protection and respect for Resolution 1244, you slowly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59776	People's MPs, please speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59777	I just connected it...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59778	It can't be connected to trade human organs with business secrets. I ask for a little dignity to all, if not according to respect for the procedure and obligation of respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59779	As for telling business secrets, there have been more cases in Serbia where some established authorities and institutions have reacted. She reacted to the Competition Protection Commission some time ago, perhaps you know that, Mr. Minister, when the Economic Institute published the data prior to the sale of Miskovic's Delta Maxi company to the Belgian company, about the extent of the trade margins. For God's sakes, they rebelled at the time and we otherwise had an objection to it and how the commission was formed and how the lobby was. Personally, as a member of the Trade Committee, I attended this briefing with members who were later elected. Of course, everything was set up and then they say – the data we had for our purposes was published by the Economic Institute. It's something every Serbian citizen knows. When you go to the market to buy tomatoes and peppers or some other groceries, when you go to another store, you go to the Delta Maxi at the tycoon Miskovic you've heard about that Wikiliks published, as read by Mrs Radet, that he paid generously, like Milan Beko Vukic and Nikolic to build this SNS company that's supposed to be called the party. So it's nothing we don't know. You know, Mr. Minister, in your pocket and every citizen of Serbia, but what's very important here is that you haven't protected some special areas in Serbia with this law, which concern high and high-priced contracts and high-value contracts. We spoke within our parliamentary group when we wrote those amendments. Let's just say, you didn't consider the field of sports at all, and you should have. These contracts, which are concluded, especially when it comes to football transfers, have great value and you know very well that UEFA is rigorous about these types of contracts that are multimillion-dollar values, and so on. The business secret is available to all the media and to every individual that they can talk about it when something like that happens. You know, in Italy, I'll take her for example, the owner of some big club can't count on her to make no money in how many years 150 million euros, as much as she can on those transfers in a few weeks. Pharmaceutical companies are covered here. However, since this law is one of the conditions, you did not say it, but it is very well known, for the accession of the World Trade Organisation, then I must really mention Mr. Asang and Willikis again and the case of pressure of Serbia, and that is what the paper said the day before yesterday, you probably read about it, as we did, but it is a dump that exists, that Americans continue to exert great pressure on Serbia to adopt this law and who knows what else to place genetically modified food here in Serbia until Serbia enters the EU. Then an unnamed talker appeared in that article who says that, yes, that is true, it is one of the people who is involved in importing and fortunately, he says, we won't have to do it for a while, because in ten years Serbia will be in the EU, a year before that we will have to accept it anyway. Now, you see what American companies are doing here, and that's exactly the Monsanto company, which is one of the world's most famous and has a direct lobby here, and it puts pressure on Serbia, as well as on all the other pressures we have these days, and especially on the southern Serbian province. There are indeed many such examples, and we think that the business secret will not be able to be protected in this way by this law. Once it happens, when there is a legal order in this country, which is not due to Serbia's tycunisation, which pays for those who have issued the SRS, which pays for the regime's party and keeps the monopoly on the market, when it starts to work this really real data confidentiality agreement between the two companies that make up a business, Serbia can count on it to be suitable for investors and countries in which such a thing is protected. Until then, there is absolutely no way to protect yourself in any way and in any way to react, because courts are like that, and the criminal law will not be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59780	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Petar Jojic doesn't want a word. Mr. Zoran Krasic, then the National MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59781	Excuse me, Mrs. Comic, how much time do we from the SRS have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59782	Twenty-three minutes is available to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59783	I promised you yesterday I'd have time. You see, I'm glad that this bill is on the agenda, because this is another example of how one area should not be regulated by law, because this law actually contains an empty story, a hollow story. It contains some legal concepts, which in this context and in this dialect of these members are practically nothing. Let's get in line. Do we need a law to protect the business secrets of a company? I don't think we need that process. Why? And the existing legal system allows and allows each company to keep its business secret on the basis of the Law on Liabilities, on the basis of the Law on Procedural Procedure and on the basis of a large number of regulations that regulate the performance of certain activities from the point of view of the conditions of performance and of activity, and in particular those regulations relating to authorship, patent, industrial property rights, etc. If that were the case, it confirms this bill. Why? Because there is only one member in criminal needs, where there is prescribed what is a commercial offence and that a legal person, a company and a responsible person in a company or a legal person are responsible for a commercial offence, but there is no liability of a natural person. In Article 2, you say that this law provides protection to legal and physical persons, both domestic and foreign. There's something wrong with it, then. Furthermore, we can see from this that you've left it to a completely business society and every legal person, and even a physical person, to just determine what a business secret is. It's so wide that practically every piece of information about a company can be a business secret, because it's not a business secret that depends on the quality of the data, it's a legal or physical person who declared it a business secret. There are so many regulations imposing on the public the work of companies or those regulations which require that a company or a natural person engaged in economic activity is obliged to inform a competent authority of their business activities, so that any information in the field of financial, economic, economic, technical, technical, technical, sketch, drawing, whatever you want to take, can be declared a business secret. Excuse me, if someone is stealing information that represents a business secret and can do harm to whoever protected that information, it needs to be settled in a bilateral dispute, without mixing the state with a special law, because basically this law doesn't regulate anything. When the bombing title of this law is read, then someone gets the impression that this law forbids an NN person to spy on an economic operator. It's not true, there's no such provision here. The Coca-Cola has kept its secret for a hundred and a half years what's the ingredient that's given. It didn't protect any laws, it protected them. Can this work with us? What will be our practice if you pass a law like this? Our practice after this law will be our present. Here's an example. Miskovic finds it very interesting what the state thinks in the area of finance and economy and he disperses himself, sends his employees and they are in all the ministries in his institutions, but when he wants to keep his business secret, something that needs to be done in a year, two days, he hires retired BIA workers who create a blinded space around a single space in his company where a business strategy is designed. Anyone who wants to break this regulation can legitimately be called to Article 3. I said – I told the public some information that represents a business secret because these data are a cover-up of criminal acts. This shall be permitted by Article 3(1). Of course, I'll use it as much as I can, at first I'll tell you. Why? There is no cantary that will calculate whether or not I have misused it, or I have done so in the intention of Article 3(1). Here's another piece of information. You know for yourself that according to our social product probably about 50% of the social product goes through public enterprises, which is a republican, which is local. Can they have any business secrets? I can't. Is it the interest of some private individuals who go to a tender to be informed in advance of what will be interesting in any of these public enterprises? How can they dig up that data? Very cheap and they finish the job. Then the question arises – is this law in the protection of public interest? No, this is not the law. We had one phone operator. We've got a few cell phones today, we've got another fixed one. What if in these companies, where we prove our commitment to the EU, to the market economy, etc., there are experts in Telecom who have worked on strategic papers to spread Telecom? He doesn't have to steal any information, his appearance is enough with the knowledge to finish a job where the VIP will be two steps ahead of our phone, to set up a base station, to look into the market, where the users are, with which service to mate. You see, now a dinar, half dinar, free minutes, etc. Do you think the legal persons will use this law to protect their business secrets? Well, he won't. Where individualistic forms of market economy flourish, such as the United States, everything is based on industrial espionage, fraud and stock market kittens. Let me make you laugh a little bit. It was almost Eddie Murphy's comedy, where he was acting. Two old men broke up on the stock market because some before them got real information about what kind of oranges would be. It's for their economy completely normal -- it rises to heaven, it falls, it goes bankrupt, it's nowhere. You think this is what you're doing here. That's impossible. Business secret. Could it be a business secret where the money from Cyprus is? So it's not an official secret, it's not a state secret, it's not a military secret, it's a business secret. Why? Banks, four banks, or public secret, what do you say now? When are we gonna get that information? Is it a business secret with which public companies end contracts to rent a business space? Under this law, they can declare it. So a public company can declare -- a business secret with whom we've concluded, say, a lease contract in Novi Sad. It can also be the business space of Novi Sad to declare it. What about the interest? What about the cover-up of crime? What's the point now? If the lease is more than four million dinars over the year, then the co-owner enters the VAT system and some aunts, aunts, etc. come out. And it could be a business secret. One can respond to what in its best interest criticises the criminal behavior of individuals in power. Probably what any Goran Knezevic was in the safe was a business secret. If it's party money, it can't be official, it can't be military, it can't be any. So it's a business secret. The Prince is down, and it is still a secret, as soon as proceedings are not conducted. You know? Is it a business secret if a few years ago Darko Saric in Novi Sad honored making four billion as a businessman with his own business? The chosen men were at the celebration. There are a lot of state officials and local officials. Then the public was surprised, startled. There was a boat on the way out of La Plata and jumped drunk Montenegrins to swim 50km to shore, and then caught a satellite signal. Is anyone in the state service able to spy on industrial property rights? Is it possible for the inspector to exercise control of some food industry, so he allegedly doesn't know, for sanitary and other reasons, why, and then the technological process is explained to him, and then, let's say, he goes to Victoria Group and then he tells them the data? Does this law regulate? It doesn't regulate. Does this law provide protection, like what someone did that went to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and took a tape with a tape recorder, who suggested who, who elected whom as judge, why he was not elected, etc., as adviser to the President, the Secretary General of the Presidency or the President of the Republic, for example? It's a business secret. There's no answer. This is where the psychosis of the people was created – something is regulated by some law, as of tomorrow, the cat ate everything. It was stopped because the law was passed, my people. The law states that it is forbidden and that it must no longer exist in the state. No, 11 years are passed by laws as a means of legalising something that essentially does not respond or represents damage to this people and this state, and by emergency procedure, please. By emergency procedure, we're protecting a business secret. Who's threatened to leak information into something that's his business secret? Didn't someone imagine that what he was protecting, that those data could represent a special secret? Or should we break through some barriers and open up themes – what is being treated today with business secrets? Today is a public secret if you make contact with someone to get a job done, 3% of people take it and don't need any conditioning. It says - these are good business practices. Have you noticed in this law that it is said in this article that all of this is considered part of unfair competition, and supplement - violation of good business practices? Good business practices. Guys, up until a few years ago, we had experts in industrial espionage on TV. As a rule, it's about technologists, mathematicians who, when they go through the drive, look at the installations, look at the devices. They can infallibly reproduce this entire facility in 10 minutes in a separate room. How do you protect yourself? How do we protect ourselves when someone has the right to work and is free to choose their jobs, so he moves from one company to another? How to protect a business secret? You had a business secret about this roadblock he was arrested. Big firm. I don't know his name – Djuric, Djoskovic. His technical director became the director of Serbia's Roads. He says you were there a few years ago doing this. He says - I worked at a private company and fought for a private company. You know? Can everything be regulated by law? It can't be regulated by law. He can't steal ideas, steal some projects. You know what it means to a businessman today when he knows there's gonna be so many and so many participants, the lowest bid will be a thousand. He offered 998. It's being stolen through computers and employees working at a company. One man complains to me and says: Imagine a year I can't get a job in a tender. The five of us are doing this stuff. The poor man only concluded after a year that this man who works on his computer where the offers and the answer to the tender are being typed, presses one button and sends it to the competition. The competition paid him more than the boss. Will this law forbid it? He won't. Can the Criminal Law suppress that? He can't. What's been going on during these changes in power since 2000? Outcast people who knew the job. They barely got to them, people from private business, to organize and run their companies. These businessmen became successful overnight. Why? Because this caliber man carries information, carries business connections, carries a block with phones, knows weak points of competition, and for very cheap money he promotes his new firm. Is that gonna stop this law? He won't. What kind of people are we like as a people in business relations? Mrs. Comic, that is best shown by WikiLeaks. There's a lot of these business secrets in Wikiliks. No official and state, don't come after me. Official secrets are something else. State secrets, military secrets, that's not what we're talking about. We're talking business secrets. The American Embassy knows the economic potential of this country at all times. I remember 20 years ago the Chamber of Commerce makes estimates of how many wheat, corn, etc. It's always been an accurate assessment of their economic advisor to the American Embassy. Malten, he hit a ton. He didn't throw lead or beans, he had a CI. And then he had a CI, so now it's easy for him to brag about who's doing everything for them. Please, the secret or information about the economic, economic, technological, technical and other potentials of this economic space and of this people is not just a matter of economic persons participating in economic life. There's no protection. Why do you say you haven't defined what a secret is, you've already left it to a legal person? Excuse me, please, business secrets about production, the physical volume of production, etc., companies dealing with certain goods, are, in a summary, state and official secret of the state, from the point of view of the balance. So the matter of business secrets isn't strictly restricted to ordinary civil litigation. This law doesn't regulate it. This law doesn't regulate, and that's why it's much better, if you want to get into this area, then define a lot of things precisely. Define many things precisely, so that this law makes sense. This is a rotten granola. He can do anything, and he can't do anything. When you can and can't do anything, by law, then you're putting the whole area down to some judge. You have two kinds of judges here, you have a litigator for damages and you have a judge who's going to conduct a business misdemeanor procedure. Come on, this one for a business offense, it's always punishable, it doesn't matter, but in the cost of damage, it can happen that someone gets pretty far based on allegedly a business secret, and he's determined what's a business secret. You can't see what meets the conditions here to be declared a business secret. You can't see an instrument here to prevent it. You are now arguing over these dual functions with the Constitutional Court, etc. Excuse me, someone's been working for ten years on a project in a company and something's been going on about his salary and going to a competitive company and transferring the whole technology, the whole computer program is being transferred. And that program is protected by this law, and it can be a business secret. The program to pass, it's the easiest thing. He grabs that little flash drive, stabs him at another boss's computer, and he's got everything. Neither onion ate nor onion smelled, nor developed research by that new boss, for cheap money, since the market economy. Do you know what a market economy looks like in Serbia? It's all in the supply and demand system. And state information, and official secret, and military secret, it's all on the market. If you want to protect yourself, you have to build a Faraday cage, have a bunker room where you make some deals, keep a crowd of those people working on a project, threaten to burn down a house, children killed, to keep a secret. Please, do you know what the saying is in Serbia when it comes to secrets? You don't know, Mrs. Comic? Says the man - you want to tell me that? This one says - I can't tell you, it's a secret. He insists, and I always warn him -- you know what, if I tell you, I have to kill you right now, because in Serbia, the only secret is what one knows. Since the other guy knows, it's not a secret. Unfortunately, you didn't put this member in this law here. What? (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: Alexa Žunić. Alexa Žunić, that's a different story. You're the minister, if there was a minister, there'd be Uncle Vasa, he was the first to congratulate, for the record. You know, that's our past. It's a picture of our mentality, our character. But it's not treated like this. This law is absolutely inconclusive and inapplicable. Just to remind you, Mr. Obradovic, as well as that law on legal liability, which was passed two years ago, is not yet in place. About the criminal liability of a legal person, was that right? That law can't be applied to us at all. We have there in that law of economics... We've been telling you -- don't, people, this joint criminal enterprise from some out-of-date Anglo-Saxon law. Well, that doesn't apply to them anymore. It's a principle of objective responsibility. (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. I'm sorry if I deranged you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59784	You have nothing to apologize for, you've used your time. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, and after that, the MP of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, today we were quite unexpectedly given to defend and attack the law on business secrecy, and we were expecting a much more significant law that was withdrawn this morning. It would have been much wiser for this government if she had withdrawn this law this morning, and if she had devoted the remaining time to the rehabilitation law, which the citizens were really anxious to hear. To hear at least the views of the representatives of the people who chose to represent them here, because between 50 and 100 thousand unmarked graves of politically persecuted people deserve to at least hear something more in this house today in the name of that justice. But justice must be late, like in good old cowboy movies, and we are dealing with another law that has been said to be on the agenda of European law. Then we got into that interesting situation so we wouldn't see the woods from the tree. And so from this law, we don't see the forest of laws that are just sorting out this area that we've now, also under this agenda of European laws, what we're trying to define today as a business secret, more or less, already in the laws that we've proposed. I'm just going to say one thing, I know that colleague Stevanovic listed a significant number of these laws, but, let's say, the Biocidal Products Act, which is mentioned here. Otherwise, 20 modest members of this law will not solve this problem concerning business secrets, although it is very much like the Business Secret Regulation, which was adopted by the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 2006, which in 18 members, roughly, dealt with this topic. Maybe even that's where the legislator was relying on that rulebook. What is a business secret in Serbia is a really important issue. This law said a lot of things, he didn't say anything, and I'm afraid what he was up to wasn't protecting him. It may be an effect that only someone in Serbia will get a little scared of what a business secret is, so they may consider whether they will give up, but they have already talked about it, that Serbia has no secrets. The secret is kept in a very drastic way, which is just listed, and that is unfortunately our essential reality. In Article 1, we already have something that says that the law can be interpreted in various ways, and when it comes to the application of the law, especially when it comes to enforcement, or when sanctioning some abuse, then we often encounter the concept of interpretation, and when we come to interpretation, then there is one poetic freedom of judges and one breadth that has its own price. We come very often to the fact that the path to justice is bypassed and sometimes inaccessible. So I could talk about each member individually and point to what I object to this law, because there are 20 of them, and one 18 could be challenged. Here, I'll say, Article 4. – a business secret, within the meaning of this law, is considered any information which has or may have commercial value, because it is not known at all, nor is it available to third parties who, by using or declaring it, could achieve economic benefit. It could really be any information. Otherwise, information is the most expensive commodity in the world. It's where the spying rests. Spying is something we haven't dealt with in any law, nor can we sanction. It is one of the oldest crafts in the world and the world is mostly, more or less, and the old and modern world, thus formed. So, under any information we can consider anything, any use, and that Article 3, we can also turn any use into abuse, and so we can caricate both one law and the institutions that have brought it and the institutions that need to implement it. It was interesting to me that this article 8, in paragraph 2, is also referred to as fraud. It says what can be contrary to good business practices, and good business practices are usually a very broad term because they depend, above all, on many things in the ethic-psychology of a nation. It's a pretty questionable thing with us. It is said: "The breach of contractual provisions on keeping business secrets, abuse of business confidence – this is a very broad concept and can be understood under it – industrial or commercial espionage, fraud." We know how many frauds we have, and we know that one serious fraud has never begun. There are over 25,000 deceived citizens by buying apartments of any tycoon that have been engaged in construction and have never entered their apartments, and there is no legal way for con men to be punished, etc. Next, after the scam, we have five: "indicating any store from the point. 1-4th of this attitude." I wonder how it's possible to prove that we once referred to one of these points, and how is this law going to fix it? So, what we think is controversial, as a parliamentary group that didn't even want to approve this legislative project by amendment this time, we're a parliamentary group that, given the number of MPs, has the most adopted amendments, and the minister knows that in all the laws we've been creative and correct associates and have submitted very appropriate amendments, and that's why they've been adopted, we didn't want to put the amendment here. Because, indeed, the only amendment that we could justify is that this law was supposed to be withdrawn from the procedure this morning and that you would cheer us up, that we wouldn't do some funny things and that we were dealing with a law that this people expected us to do and that after more than half a century deserved. So we should be dealing with establishing and restoring lost rights, returning to an earlier state, returning a good voice and honoring those who were political commissioners who were faster than life took it more than half a century ago. About business secrets in Serbia, everyone knows everything, no matter how public Serbia and how many citizens try to refer to business secrets, everything here is known. This is a small country to keep secrets, and we're all very interested in every day of our lives. Minister, you may still have a chance to change your mind and that as one minister who has done his duty correctly, you will surely be remembered, you will not be in a position to defend the law, a law that has far more sides in its reasoning than I have and does not really solve anything, you withdraw this law from parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59786	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. After him is the Messenger of the People, Munir the Poturak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, this issue is very important. It seems to us, unfortunately, that the proposed legal project is quite modest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59788	I apologize, MP, only to remind my fellow Members of the obligations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Momir Markovic, MP of the Verica Radeta, violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by obtaining, rather than appreciating, a speaker during his presentation, obtaining and interrupting the speaker during his presentation. I'm warning you not to do that. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59789	That the importance of this problem is growing considerably through the development of the information system and information technology, information-communication technology, as it is said today, and that it was beyond the need for this problem to be dealt with by one law. I think, unfortunately, the SNS approach is not exactly the same as the government's approach to this problem, because we expected this law to pay much more attention to domestic economy and to make it much more adapted to the opportunities of domestic economy, because there is a big difference between the power of large multinational companies that separate large resources in data protection that they have and use big money when it comes to electronic espionage. In our country, it seems to me that the amount of funds is very low. The possibilities of our economy at this point are very narrow, we are aware of these financial crises, we are aware of the forces of our economy, and that is what the SNS resents this law. We tried to fix this law through a few amendments. It seems to us that if there is any understanding, some institutes in favour of the domestic economy, we can fix it. We were thinking first and foremost of the means of security that, according to us, are completely unnecessary in this law. Security funds make it very difficult for the DA to file charges against someone who broke the business secret law. They demand and can demand serious funds and can in some ways slow down justice itself. This institute is also unnecessary for us, because in the law itself, there is the possibility that the court will verify the credibility of the occurrence of the damage and that the court is in a position to refuse, if it considers that the damage has not been done, the possible action, and in this way we consider that the measures of temporary confiscation or exclusion from traffic or the measures of providing evidence entirely depends on the court and that it is absolutely unnecessary for this institute which implies the means of security when filing an action. What is still important to us and that is the fact that, unfortunately, the concept of a business secret itself is not defined enough or is not clearly defined enough. It seems to us that there is a complete lack of protection of that information about the personality of people who work in companies and that part of this law has not been done in any way. The definition of business secrets, by its too wide-ranging poses questions perhaps also the rights of investors to have the right insight into the business of the company, workers' rights to assess their position and union rights so that they can assess their position within the company itself. All this together, given the modest scope of this law, unfortunately, can't mean that we can be satisfied with this law. I expect the most recent time to make this law more serious, given the fact and the fact, as I said at first, what are the possibilities of our economy. State aid is also needed, such as the need for additional institutions, especially those relating to professional agencies that would help businesses determine the violation of this law, and I don't think we have them. That is why we have to expect an active role of the state in some future, if we really want to have a law on business secrecy in application. There is no concept by the state and, unfortunately, it all comes down to passing one law that we will try to satisfy perhaps some foreign actors, but which will not significantly improve the situation when it comes to business secrecy and the protection of business secrets today in Serbia. So, generally speaking, given where we are in the world today, in a world where economic espionage is daily, where information you have depends on the success of a company, it takes a much more serious approach by the government of Serbia, so that we, as a relatively small economy, can, through the application of this law, protect our economy and enable it to be competitive, above all on the domestic market, and God, in some future period, and on a foreign market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59790	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has the word, followed by the Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59791	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, what this law needs first and foremost to show one necessity in the area of the protection of certain data and information. If we look at the moment, and then we see that at the time of transition, at the time of the economic recession, we have a terrible space for some kind of industrial and espionage, new research, investment or opening up investment space for both domestic and foreign ones, there was a general law that would cover the space to protect information in which significant resources were invested. So far, we've adopted a very significant number of laws here that have treated a certain business secret with an indication of a particular area, and we can say that these are laws of some particular importance. I would like for the sake of the public, for the sake of the businessmen, for the sake of the people, for the sake of the citizens to read which are all areas protected by this law, and which have their own purpose in terms of and sanctioning, if someone happens to abuse information of particular importance. However, there are no limited institutions that need to provide, to say the safety of citizens in chemicals, in the pharmaceutical industry or in the economy, so it is said that in our legal system, business secret, legally governed by special regulations, and this, the Law on Economic Society, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Trade, the Law on Chemicals and the Law on Biocidal Products. Those laws deal with the issue of business secrets and regulate the duty of keeping a business secret in accordance with specific matters of legal regulation. Thus, the Business Society Act, Articles 72 to 74, regulates the duty of keeping business secrets in business areas. In the area of business of companies, if the owner, manager or mates is in their hands whether the business secret list of customers or the list of suppliers, is in their jurisdiction the strategy and research of the marketing campaign, in fact the owners of the company are allowed by this law to regulate their own, to say on the principle of confidentiality, what is available to the public, and what cannot be limited by the balance sheet, or by the balance sheet of success, in fact no one can protect any information that is necessary to protect citizens and business of some others in similar areas. What would that mean if we were to get into business with someone who had full protection of financial resources, or a schedule within financial means, if tomorrow someone who might be doing bad business or having a pre-determined balance managed to pull the bad ones too. So, some specific laws, which I have stated, have arranged what it can't actually be, or can't be declared a business secret, or what I own as the owner of some particular fact, especially the data that has some commercial value for that company, for that group, the group can give a certain advantage to that carrier, or someone who abuses that information to give a significant advantage in a near future on the market. Right now, we know that we mentioned here a Coke that has a significant advantage over some other products. "Nick" has its own formula and information even in the marketing strategy and the campaign, of which literally only the owner and designer know what it is that in our country right now, the necessity of this law makes it necessary for this law is to define first of all what is a business secret. This law defines it, this law allows businessmen, institutions that declare that in their institutions, to see a certain advantage in some significant information, in some information, a draft, we have all mentioned and defined it here through law, and in reason it is very clear that it is important that owners recognize who they can actually trust. We often now have opportunities where our companies are organized, in the form of shareholders, partners, and to many larger forms of organization where there is often one information, one research, a technological process can be a significant advantage and has a commercial value compared to competition. The owner of such data, such information should, by means of a contract or by means of some of his acts in the company, define in a commercial person what that information is, clearly under the confidentiality mark and make all participants bound to create that business secret or to learn and specific information that can give a significant commercial advantage to that undertaking or to abuse such information. We often have examples of people working on software, making teams that aren't in our country, software creation by people from several countries for a particular area, and even one segment within a software is involved by so-called project groups that create this software. They are all bound by an international contract to protect such significant information for a certain period. So, even in creating this law, even in creating a business secret within the company, you have to set a certain time limit when a person who knows such information or information is required, how much he is obliged to keep that information. The whole point of this law is to guide businessmen, carriers and significant information that has commercial value and people around this information that participated in how to commit themselves and to keep that secret, i.e. to be sanctioned if this secret is somewhere in the context of unfair competition and to establish the legal procedure of sanctioning. What I wanted to say to myself, to draw attention to, to send a message to businesses, to the institutions that it is necessary in their acts to edit all the relevant information that is worth in that company, which gives a significant advantage to protecting it with some mark of confidentiality, to mark people in that chain of information with such information and to bind them with a certain act or contract to keep such information a business secret and give a significant advantage. Also, if we wanted to highlight the importance and necessity of this law, this law is actually a legal standard compared to those of the special laws that we have given. Simply this law was necessary and more like a roof law for all the special laws we had so far, because the space left was for an incredible or unlimited number of information that could be declared a business secret in a company. Once a marketing campaign with certain dynamics can be declared a business secret because significant funds will be invested in such a kind of propaganda of their products, in fact by highlighting some particularity of a particular product. Sometimes, the marketing campaign itself with certain dynamics can be declared a business secret, because it will be a significant asset invested in such a kind of propaganda of its products, in fact by highlighting some particularity, some of its products. The significance is that, frankly, in the data that we print daily, the public is informed that there are very significant investors in this Serbia, that foreign investors, regardless of all our problems and financial and economic and transitions and everything that can be negative on some scale of problems, are investing in us. Foreign investors grow year after year. In some ways, we are desirable for reasons that this public sometimes doesn't see, but if in the last few days in the daily press we find that both Germans and Italians are present on our market, and today in the Chamber significant contracts are signed with German design houses, I think that this law actually gives one security and stability to both our and foreign investors for all these values, or specificities, which can be treated as a business secret. For that reason, I don't think there's any doubt, there's no reason for anyone to dispute the necessity of adopting this law. If there is a particular observation in terms – what can be treated under good business practices, perhaps it is a principle that should be treated in general through the legal system. It seems to me that there's room for those bodies to sanction judges to show themselves somewhere what's broken, to what extent, and what might be the commercial value. Maybe somewhere, I don't think this law can be arranged, but under these good business practices somewhere closer, it makes it more clear what can be in this situation, in this dynamic economic restriction or definition, although, frankly, I think it's very difficult to define or specify under the words of good business practices what can be covered. He can do anything, and he can't cover everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59792	Twelve minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, given that time is available to all authorised representatives, i.e. the Presidents. Does anyone want a word? If he wants to, please sign into the electronic system. Does the minister want a word? Yeah. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59793	I would like to thank the MPs for their participation in this debate. I must say, with the exception of my colleague, Muntlak, or Poturka, because I'm permutation, I had a friend from Kosierić who called himself that, you see what life is, which is not between us. I'm sorry about the lapus. With the exception of colleagues, the others had a critical attitude towards this law. I don't dispute the right to a critical relationship with the law, but I don't think the numerous objections that have been made here today absolutely stand. Two are, to say the most important: the claim that the law is too general and that it will be inapplicable. We in the government disagree with that assessment. I think the law is very precise about what a business secret is. We in the government disagree with that assessment, I think the law is very precise about what a business secret is, that it's about unknown information that can benefit someone, or whoever owns that information, can do harm. Good business practices are something to build, it's up to standards, conventions that regulate this government and documents, and it's going to be something that's likely to try to interpret differently. We've also tried to give one closer determination here to help each other. Please don't think that this law is passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia just because we have obligations to the EU. I want you to know that we want to be members of the World Trade Organisation, that we can't become a member without passing laws that regulate that area, we can't become a member first, so we can do anything but have to do to become a member. In addition to the Law on Optical Discs, this law was one of the laws highlighted as a need to be passed. I want you to know, it's just good to create one mile legal, so we have a partner in the economy tomorrow. And it's not just about foreign companies that are often trying to say, we have domestic problems, but it's not about me talking from one of our domestic companies one person who reported what she was doing in her company as a personal partner. And now a court dispute is being conducted and it was done for a very specific reason, of course, to gain property profit, not some other general goal was in mind to personal benefit. Then the man left the company and then the project he was working on, patented as his own, and of course it'll be what it'll be. Whether to run slowly, whether the process will be resolved one way or the other remains to be seen. But it's this law, we've tried to create one framework to solve this issue. I didn't accidentally say that the subject matter was a business secret part of the content of a number of special laws and there might be another area and a special law where this would be treated but there was a need to pass one of these general laws. Today, there have been a lot of things that have been said and that are objectively not related to this law, it's about first of all the application of the confidentiality law, it's another topic that I wouldn't spend my word on. I agree with my colleague Munir that it would be good for the companies themselves to settle this issue with their own acts and thus help all of us to define what is considered to be a business secret, i.e. that has a commercial value and can make a certain profit tomorrow. We object to the number of members of 20 that it is a small, relative thing, we think it is enough for this law and we see nothing wrong with the fact that the explanation is large. It is good for the explanation to be extensive, for everyone to read this law, to read the content of individual solutions. My colleagues at the Intellectual Institute told me that the American business secret law has only four members. Again, it is not strange given the character of the legal system and the court practice to say they are building their own legal system and on certain cases. We have used experience from the countries of Europe in the development of the content of this law. We've been consulting all the ministries, I have to tell you, and that was one of the remarks that this doesn't belong to us, but it would be logical to hear from others, and justice and economic development, and the rest of the ministries and make a law whose content is before you. We believe that it will have its meaning from the point of view of legal certainty and from the point of view of the possibility of business, from the point of view of protecting those who invest in research, development and possession of information that can be brought to the company, that is, where they can bring economic benefit or development. We think the law is absolutely good. For other remarks, we will try to respond to the amendments we receive. We heard there were only 15 of them, so we'll see what their contents are and answer them. In any case, I thank you all for this debate and we will continue the discussion when the amendment is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-14-0.u59794	Thank you. This concludes our work, i.e. I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. At the conclusion of the principled search on this law, we are also completing our work for today and continue our work tomorrow on September 15th, at 10.00 p.m., by discussing the search for the remaining points of the agenda, i.e. a joint principled search on two decisions that we have on the agenda. Thank you, and I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
