ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54649	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the number of MPs registered in the electronic system, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or the rights of the Members of the People, to seek information and explanation. The first position of Article 286 states that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise this right under Article 1 at the session of the National Assembly, orally, in a five-minute address Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the representatives or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to exercise their right under Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54650	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and representatives of the Ministry, these days is the current question, so-called false asylum seekers. In this regard, I request notices from the government's representatives as to how more stringent measures at border crossings appear in practice. What does it look like? On these days, Minister Djelic announced changes to a series of laws in domestic legislation that would also introduce the criminal act of organising illegal migration. In the Assembly lately, I have been trying, several months ago, to start really very serious topics about the catastrophic economic situation in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, where the unemployment rate is over 80%. In a number of situations, I have also asked the Prime Minister what the government will do to prevent a huge wave of migration that has cut the number of Albanians in the Presevo Valley in the last 12 years. I have provided information that there are only 500 Albanians in these moments that bear, of 5,500 Albanians. Otherwise, this whole area is halved. From ministers we get certain answers, in terms – it happens in other environments. But often migrations are mixed in mountain-mounted areas, which is a process that is longer present, with municipalities passing through Corridor 10. Doesn't it look like something's wrong? It is not normal for them to appear as they do in mountain-mounted areas in the key, most significant corridor, where there are still some opportunities for economic development, and this is not happening. Lately, we've been hearing about the fabulous sums, and it's from serious people, but I don't think it's serious when they bring up such figures. The first was about 50m euros invested in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. Now we hear, these days, I think Mr. Djelic mentioned as many as 80, or that information was given from the Coordination Body. If that was given in ten years, then what about this economy, why is such a degree of underdevelopment present? What makes them so unserious, in my opinion, even arrogantly, with those numbers? When it comes to international donations since 2004 or 2005, they are mainly common donations for the entire area of the Pcinjski and Jablanik district, with 13 municipalities. Now you have the Progress project, which refers to 25 municipalities, where Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are included, but why is it sometimes trendy, just for these municipalities, the barata of these fabulous sums? Then, between 2000 and 2008, the exit was likely 50 million, but not only for these municipalities, but also for the needs of the military, the police and some of the mistakes that were made in the previous period. All I know is the Euroflex company, which has worked well, in which it's 90. the years the army broke in and the production was cut off. To fix that mistake, the Coordination Body paid for the workers who were sitting at home. When they were returned after the machine they were broken, so they bought new ones; a million marks were given for one such mistake. If now all that was given to the military, the police and the mistakes that were made... (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. ) My request is to make a serious analysis of why people leave and what can be done to repair the economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54651	Thank you, People's Messenger. Are any of the presidents or authorized representatives answering for a word? National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54652	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a question, if possible, asking the Prime Minister for a notice from Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. I remember well, as I believe fellow MPs who followed the exposés during the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia almost three months ago, and that the citizens were also very closely following what the prime minister was saying. I'll just quote a few lines, as he said on March 14th when it was a reconstruction of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Cvetkovic said: "Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia was faced with the challenges of the biggest economic crisis in the history of the world immediately after its formation in autumn 2008. Such an unremembered financial breakdown has created a situation that has seriously shaken the economies of the world's richest countries and which has led some of the EU countries to bankruptcy. During the night, we were witnesses, financial institutions collapsed, world-renowned companies... “ etc. So what I would like to underline, and insisting on what Prime Minister Cvetkovic said, is one sentence at the end of the paragraph that says: "I would like to say from this place that the Serbian government will not regret the effort to succeed in achieving its goal. Serbian citizens should live better today and now, and we will do everything possible to do so. “ So my question, based on what Mr Cvetkovic said, is: What has the government done since the reconstruction to improve the standards of Serbian citizens? Is there a layer of the population, is there any citizen who is better than the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Just to remind myself that the prices directly controlled by the government of the Republic of Serbia have increased, as the electricity price has jumped 15%; that the property taxes by the government of the Republic of Serbia (although local self-government should be implemented) have increased; that inflation, according to the NBS Governor, has already been announced in early May, how planned, has been met, some eight and a few percent. To add my personal position - I don't know why inflation is even planned. We have an announcement of gas and scholarships for students. What makes me human, and trust me to speak for hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens... what the President of the Republic said about so-called The price of 54.22 dinar bread. I think he's been fooled by some marketing team standing next to him and it's not quite clear what he said. When those 54.22 dinars, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are multiplied by 365 days, that's how much money you... Three hundred thousand pensioners receive a pension below 13,000 dinars. So, only for a loaf of bread a day should they give a pension and a half. When a TV subscription and a telephone subscription is added, it turns out that more than 300,000 of the oldest citizens in our country should only give two and a half pensions for these three items. Not to mention thousands of children whose parents don't care for drugs, so, those people who don't have any receipts, or that 13,000. Why am I criticizing government and prime minister in some way? Because I think in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as it was, there was enough money to pay more attention to the most vulnerable layers of the population in our country, but there was no hearing. There have been good amendments both by the opposition and by the ruling coalition. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, to explicitly respond to what did the Government of the Republic of Serbia and he, as Prime Minister and Finance Minister, have done for the past few months, since the government's reconstruction, to improve the standards of Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54653	Before I give my word to the next MP declared to use his right under Article 286(2), honourable MPs, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the delegation from Borov, the Republic of Croatia, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following our work from the Great Hall gallery. They are present: Rado Bosic, head of the municipality of Borovo, Duško Drobić, deputy head of the municipality of Borovo, Danko Nikolic, president of the municipal council, Tihomir Jakovljevic, head of school, Rada Latas, director of preschool institution, Velibor Nedić, entrepreneur from Borov, Milica Popadić, president of the Association of Pensioners, Senka Romić, president of the Youth of Borova and Dragan Zečević, journalist from Borov. Welcome to the National Assembly, welcome to Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54654	Dear Serbian citizens, respected colleagues, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, I would like to ask Serbia's SNS a question concerning the reconstruction of the government that was carried out more than two months ago. How are we informed from the media or how they are preparing us to accept an illegal decision that there will be no dismissal of officials and how the issue of severance for state secretaries is raised, and so on, I want to ask the Government the following question: why did the government not break the working relationship with members of the cabinets of ministers and their state secretaries, even though it was legally required to do so? Two, how many state secretaries and cabinet members of ministers who resigned continued to work in the ministries? Under three, what measures will the Government take regarding the working relationship of state secretaries and cabinet members of the disbanded ministries, and are the exact information that, contrary to the law, these persons will be provided jobs and severances? I would remind you that the Secretary of State is an official appointed and resolved by the Government on a proposal from the Minister and that his duty ceases to be a minister; that the rights and obligations of special advisors are rights governed by the contract, under general civil law, and that they, special advisers, do not establish a working relationship at all; that the working relationship in the cabinet is based on for a certain period of time and that the maximum duration of the term of office of the Minister. I want to remind the public that the people in the cabinets of the appointed ministers or the abolished ministries, state secretaries, advisors, cabinet heads have no right to severance and I remind you of the applicable regulations that speak of it. Please provide me with the answer to the asked parliamentary questions as soon as possible, before any damage can arise from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54655	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance what will he do when it comes to the responsibilities of the company for unpaid taxes and contributions? I would remind you only if the state of Serbia, despite announcements that we would take advantage of the economic crisis and prosper in the economic crisis, had come into an extremely difficult situation. Approximately, businesses owe for taxes and contributes about 20 billion euros. The problem is that there are first and second-row debtors among the debtors, and that is one of the problems that must be solved. The top ten companies in Serbia owe 2,182,000,000 euros, nearly two Telecoms. The question arises how is it possible that Delta Holding owes 942.000,000 euros, Victoria Group 208, Inway 197, East Point 158? Look who owns these companies. Do you know that a private businessman, in order to gain any confidence, has to ask for confidence that he paid taxes and contributions, that he doesn't owe VAT because he can't do anything? How is it possible that a man owes 940,000,000 euros and is operating in this country? Normally, because it funds individual parliamentary groups, or parties, to maintain this privileged position. What does the state finally think it's gonna do when it comes to this kind of debt? I'm calling on small privates, I'm going to bring in that Zivkovic barrel from Nis, you've been calling for electricity bills, utility bills, etc., to put their obligations into those barrels, because how is it possible for someone to get this kind of leveraged and that others have to suffer hard to carry out all their duties? And, to no one, they're successful businessmen, they advise what and how the state should do. And if you sold all this stuff they got on the mufti, which they'd say, they don't care. What, are you taking their grandfather or did they earn this? No, they robbed this, with your help, since 2001, and they don't care. What would they pay taxes and contributions? Each one has one or two ministers in his pocket and he doesn't care, and you're acting crazy. You're chasing citizens for unfinished obligations regarding electricity, utility, etc., you're selling apartments. Why don't you do something here? Well, how many apartments is 940,000,000 euros, how many apartments is that? That's where you don't react, and you chase these martyrs, you want to sell them apartments. When they are picked up, the state will have to pay taxes and contributions to workers who have not been paid, because the state has created conditions for them to function that way. It's not the workers' fault, what can they do? If they rebel, they'll be fired. That's the problem we faced. You remember how in 2001 you talked about the alleged preservation of social peace by not paying taxes and contributions. Chuck, Chad will remember this for sure, and I think it was passed by a law that should have been held accountable, that those who don't pay taxes and contribute would be held accountable for it. What about this, what now, where's your law? Now the problem is because it's yours, because it's the ones you've allowed to rob this country. That's why I'm asking the President of the Republic again, the next time he goes to Kopalnik, along with the Prime Minister, to solve this problem first. When you solve this problem, it seems to me that the rest of the problems will be resolved much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54657	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54658	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, raises the issue to the Prime Minister from the years-long insistence of our parliamentary group on a serious debate on the economic policy to be conducted in the country and the state in which the country is located. In particular, we are interested in the answer to the question to what extent is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the policies of our National Bank agreed upon, and what does the Government think that it is doing to respond effectively to the great economic defeat, which is in fact the only description of the failure of the privatisation of our most significant and economically most interesting public enterprise, we mean "Telecom"? This debate that follows parliamentary issues has shown how big misunderstandings are within our political public. Did the government make an analysis of the effects that would result from the fact that we failed to sell the company that we consider best at the price we imagined ourselves? How does the government think it's realising market policy in our society if it's not ready to agree to market rules that say it's worth as much money as it can get for such a thing? In parallel with that, what will the government do to realize, among other things, and the plan presented here during its reconstruction when it spoke, on the one hand, of raising competitiveness, quite unwittingly, unskilledly and without a clear plan, but, on the other hand, of a clear intention of increasing exports? At this point our national currency is the only currency on the planet that strengthens compared to the euro. In a situation where we, citizens of a country where the national currency devalues most in Europe, inflation is over 10%, at a time when the currency is stronger than the euro by the same amount. As the dollar subsides under the euro and goes to 1.5 over the euro, the euro descends below a hundred dinars. At first glance, it's something that's useful to the citizens, but the effects of that will have to take over the future government. We do not like this sale of the future because of the unpreparedness to define ourselves today and implement concrete reforms. What's the problem? The problem is that the government owed the country nine hundred million euros by obtaining the money from commercial banks by selling state charters in euros, not dinars. The nine hundred million were taken away by the economy, because banks would have to invest that money in the economy as a rule of their business. The same nine hundred million euros will have to return to the commercial banks tomorrow, which will then put a great deal of pressure on the national currency and what needs to worry us now, as it is clear that this money will not be returned, for example, from the revenues resulting from the more dynamic exports of our country. We can't function by going to the left, the other to the right, which will drag one to the front, and the other to the right, and the other to the back. If there is a policy, then that policy must be clear and should be implemented. We are interested in when the Prime Minister will react to what is happening in the country, including the destruction of the remaining positive resources in our economy. The most important private companies are being criminalized. It is not true that they do not pay taxes and contribute to workers. It's the state that didn't do it in the past, when companies were social. The privatisation agency did not react when it had to react through measures to control the privatisation carried out, which was not fully completed. That is why the Agency is in charge of something like that, and the Agency should also say that it cannot take over the role of the government implementing privatisation by accounting with the private sector. There's too much confusion and too much contradiction so we can keep an eye on it. Let Mr. Cvetkovic come here before the break, before the fairy. We've been in Parliament for another month, right? We have this session and another one, and I'll probably see you after the future election campaign. What is the problem is the fact that in the meantime we need to live with 10% interest, plus a six-month currency euro, in a country where the dinar is stronger than the euro. The only country in Europe is us. No one can survive economically, and this Chernobyl is the future for our children. (President: five minutes. It's too expensive to deal with. Let Cvetkovic come and say what he will do with all these obvious paradoxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54659	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54660	Dear Presidency, my question will be addressed to the police ministry. Since the adoption of the new Transport Act, at the end of 2009, new procedures on vehicle registration and new traffic licenses and plates have been applied since 1 January this year. Police administrations across Serbia have started to work on new procedures, however, it is obvious that the preparations, for which police administrations had spent a year, have not been properly implemented, so the registration lines for vehicles by police administrations are extremely large. This really creates major problems for people who need to function daily, to carry out their day - to - day duties, and they have to spend a few days in the vehicle registration to just hand over the paperwork, and then a few more hours to wait in line to raise the same documentation later, that is, to raise traffic permits and tables. Obviously, it wasn't working out well, nor was it getting ready for these things. The procedures are very complicated. Instead of the former six bills and papers, it's twice as much now. Besides, the registrations are far bigger than they were. The biggest problems with vehicle registration are, as a rule, in the second and third cities of size in Serbia, Novi Sad and Nis. Last week, a large group of members of police and municipal administrations, engaged in illegal trade and fraud, or taking bribes and reselling biometric ID cards and passports, were arrested in Nis and the surrounding area. All this has to do with the question I'm about to ask now, and it concerns the absence of police chiefs in the two, behind Belgrade, the largest city in Serbia. In Nis for a year and a half, since the previous police chief retired, no new chief of police administration has been appointed. It's the same situation in Novi Sad. The same situation is in the fireman. My question to the police minister is -- what are the reasons why the largest police administrations in Serbia, after Belgrade, do not have their own commissioners, which is obviously reflected in the case of crime and the poor functioning of police administrations in these cities? If this vehicle registration problem is seemingly benign and if I talked about this problem a month ago and asked the question and pointed out to Minister Dacic these problems, I really don't see any reason not to react to it. People who work on these jobs do their best, however, it's obvious that it's not enough either. In order to submit documentation for vehicle registration, it is necessary to stand in ranks for a few hours. Of course, there is anxiety, there have been incidents, even protests by citizens outside police administrations over this reckless attitude of the state government towards citizens, who should exercise their right in an effective way, not be harassed, to stand for days or hours in a row to finish a job, for which they pay, nothing is free. I repeat the question - why are not the chiefs of police administrations in Novi Sad, Nis and Pogorevc appointed? When will it be done and what are the reasons for this long absence of the first man in those police? It's about cities where over 600,000 people live, 700,000 people, a very large number of our citizens are referred to these police administrations, and they obviously can't function because there's no first man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54661	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic, Nikola Krpic and Konstantin Arsenovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, for a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 4 of the agenda next to the representatives of the promoter Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Nebojša Ćirić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, invited the sittings to attend: Vesna Arsić and Branislav Zec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Snezana Matić, Head of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Milan Stefanović, Djordje Vukotic and Branko Radulović of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vida Zivkovic, Director of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals and Lucija Dujović, Assistant Director of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. We are moving to a joint general search of points 1, 2 and 4 of the agenda – PROPOSALS ON THE COMMUNICATION SOCIETARYS, CONTRACTIONAL FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURES AND CONTROLS OF THE SPECIFIC METALS A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the proposals of the laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours and distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, the SRS Parliamentary Group has one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, the United Regions of Serbia Parliamentary Group 28 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica 24 minutes, the MP group SPS - JS18 minutes, the MP group LDP 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the New Serbia Group 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group of minorities eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the SPS - JS, MP Arsen Đurić, MP of the DSS, MP Dragan Stevanović, MP of the SRS and MP Janko Veseinović Parliament group of ZES. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a law on companies, a draft law on contractual financial restructuring of companies and a bill on the control of objects of precious metals. Does the representative of Proposer Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54662	Thank you. The chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you three laws that are quite important. The first on the agenda is the proposal for a company law. I'll try to be brief and, yes, to you, you've had the opportunity to get acquainted with the draft, present the main characteristics of this law. There were ideas, and it was thought that in the drafting of this law, it was going on to amend and supplement the existing company law as successor to the Company Act, but they were very detailed and comprehensive, which is why we decided to go to adoption, or propose to the National Assembly for the adoption of a completely new law. It is very important that we have indeed consulted all relevant factors in the drafting of this law. Available data are collected which are relevant for considering regulatory solutions, data from the Agency for Business Registers, Central Registers, Securities of Values and the Belgrade Stock Exchange. There was a public debate in which we communicated with representatives of courts, businessmen, auditors, representatives of foreign investors. We have really tried to make, in the right sense of that word, a comprehensive debate in order to have one quality law; among other things, to comply with European Union regulations, with the best practice that exists in Europe in the domain of the laws on economic societies. I would like to point out that this system law is extremely important, and that over the past six or seven years, we have had the opportunity to hear both criticisms and proposals to amend the existing company law. There are certain problems in applying a number of provisions, among other things, due to the lack of accuracy of the existing Business Society Act, especially when it comes to economic categories. In an analysis, namely the preparation of this draft, we have set out some of the facts, I will just say briefly, among other things, that the dominant form of companies in the Republic of Serbia is a limited-responsibility society. For example, it is just over 105,000 entities, or 95% of the total number of companies. Some specificities of our economic environment have affected the proposal of certain solutions within the new company law; there are five of them, so I'm going to list them all. I think it's important that we list these precisely because they have affected certain solutions that have been incorporated into the new law. First, there is a marked concentration of ownership within existing companies, unrelated to whether they are limited liability companies or companies. Secondly, we have a large number of companies with very few shareholders. For example, 30% of open stock companies have fewer than 50 shareholders. The closure, i.e. the transformation of open stock companies, has been illustrated by a large number of takeovers and forced purchases of actions from minority shareholders over the past few years. Also, what is a fact is a low liquidity market and a series of problems in corporate governance. I must say that our analysis has shown that the basic problem in the Republic of Serbia, unlike other economies, is not the relationship between the administration and the shareholders, i.e. the principle and the agent, but the majority and minority shareholders. For this reason, we have also introduced certain solutions aimed at giving greater rights, i.e. better protection of minority shareholders. I must say that the basic economic objective of the proposed law is to reduce the transaction costs incurred in the exchange, implementation and protection of property rights in legal traffic between legal and natural persons and to represent the interests of different groups, particularly owners, within the company. We have set out several important goals that the proposed laws should achieve. These are: harmonising the law with new EU rules; harmonising with the Capital Market Act; consistent distinction between a one-home and two-home management system; resolving problems identified in the application of existing law, which I have already talked about; more detailed and clearer regulation of individual issues and institutes; consistent distinction between society with limited liability on the one hand and action societies on the other hand; strengthening the responsibility of directors and members, shareholders; more precise regulation of the liquidation of companies, which has so far been quite a problem; comprehensive regulation of issues relating to entrepreneurs; more detailed regulated protection of trustees; electronic means of communication, which is the novelty of this law; more precise and simpler regulation of status changes; more detailed regulation of the winding-up process and the introduction of the institutions of forced liquidation of societies; more detailed regulation of domestic and domestic society. With regard to the position of minority shareholders and related to corporate governance, I would like to highlight a few important changes, and also to minority shareholders and corporate governance, because there have been a lot of disagreements or objections from the real sector. When I say businesses, I mean both high school and small businesses and certain associations and associations in this sense. With this law, we have well defined the market and emissions price of actions in stock companies, to prevent the abuse of the rights of minority shareholders. Now, for example, the percentage of capital that gives the right to propose the agenda and convene an extraordinary session of the assembly in the stock companies is reduced from 10% to 15%. Also, in the area of corporate governance, we have the freedom to choose between one-home and two-home management of stock companies, but is now introduced for limited-responsibility companies, which gives additional flexibility, which is required by business practice. I must say, we have also consulted European legislation in order to reach the best possible solutions. Also, in this law it's been built into that we have a dinar as an accounting unit, in terms of basic capital. The currency is the currency in which transactions are carried out. All transactions in a currency other than a dinar are considered foreign currency transactions. In short lines, I tried to be as brief as possible in presenting, this law, in our opinion, now fully regulates the matter that has been regulated so far, but with this law we have fundamental amendments to the existing law, i.e. we have a new law that corrects everything that the professional public, economy and associations have identified in the last six years of applying the current Business Society Act, so I think you have a truly comprehensive legal solution that will significantly facilitate business in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have a draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies aimed at redefining trust and debt relations between a company in financial difficulties and its creditors, primarily banks. The reason for the adoption of this law is the growing liquidity in the economy, the fact that nearly a quarter of corporate debt to the banking sector is currently in a delay, i.e. there are delays; also, the need to prevent the bankruptcy of business entities whose recovery is also possible; the need for companies to keep certain types of grace periods during which they would consolidate their finances and whose expiry would successfully settle their debts to the creditors. Also, what banks that lend to the economy aim at, which is to reduce the credit risk of banks – banks are creditors, for example, 47% of the debt that is the basis for the blockade of accounts – and thereby restores full trust in both citizens and businesses, firstly, to the banking system. The aim of this law is to identify and resolve financial difficulties in a timely manner and create conditions for the normal continuation of business, to avoid bankruptcy for those companies that have a perspective and a future and, I would say, an attempt to break the liquidity chain that exists in our economy. Several relevant principles of the law are, for example, in Article 5 of the principle of volunteering; in Article 6 of the principle of debt sustainability; the principle of cooperation and coordination of creditors, which I think is quite important, because when there is communication between creditors, or banks, there is the possibility of a better, more adequate solution for debtors; the principle of equality of trustees' positions and the position of proportionate levels of demand, as well as the principle of access to data and confidentiality of data. Generally, this law implies, which is very important, the principle of volunteering. What is the essence of this law is that, in terms of liquidity, businesses that have good production portfolios, good production programs, or in the service sector, have a quality service offer, have a future, allow indifference, or financial problems, to create an institutional mechanism that they can adequately communicate with their creditors, primarily banks, on the principle of volunteering, or mutual understanding. The third law that is before you is the law on the control of objects of precious metals, which aims to organise in a comprehensive way the performance of the production and traffic of objects of precious metals. The reasons for the adoption of this law are to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to allow the development of this area on an international basis and to take new solutions into national legislation, to establish a transparent and impartial way of performing the work of controlling objects of precious metals, and one institutional reason, which is to create conditions for the Republic of Serbia to approach, or sign a Convention on the Control and Marking of objects of precious metals, which will speed up further development of gold mining as economic branches, reduce costs, allow for a greater choice of products on the domestic market and facilitate the transport of items of precious metals on our and foreign markets. The adoption of this law, if adopted by the National Assembly, will define the work of the competent ministry, the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, the authorised bodies, as well as the economic operators whose authority is provided for by this law, which is an important paper in relation to the existing legislation. This will create conditions for the entry of new operators. Also, this law will enable the regulation of the issue of the validity of foreign signs, i.e. stamps and documents on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and ensure that items of precious metal can be placed on the market, or used only if they are marked in an appropriate manner, which is proof of compliance with the prescribed requirement. This law will also affect the prevention of unfair competition as it will establish equal and clear rules regarding their production, distribution and use. In my opinion, there will be conditions for the creation of new jobs, as well as for the entry of new operators into the market. We will also have authorized bodies to carry out research and stamping operations of metal objects, testing precious metals and their alloys. Finally, we expect this law to have positive effects on the further development of the production of precious metal objects as an economic activity and the strengthening of the domestic market in this area. That's what I was going to say, the chairman, for the introduction, and here we are for the question of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54663	Thank you. On the basis of Article 90, paragraphs 2 and 2 of Article 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that Minister Nebojsa Ciric is obliged to leave the meeting of the National Assembly. Authorised representative, Vice-President Verica Kalanovic will be in the hall at 1215 hours. I'm setting a break. The minister will be back after he's done his duties. I have a misunderstanding. I understand the minister has obligations of that kind that we will never see him again today, but that's not the case. So, the work continues at 12.15 hours, with the presence of Deputy Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic. When Minister Nebojsa Ciric completes his duties in the municipalities and cities he visits, then he will join us. We'll be working today and after 1800 hours, until we finish the debate in a joint principle search that's just been opened. Since the break will take an hour and ten minutes, a second break will not be set until the end of today’s workday. Thank you. The National Assembly is currently on a working break, but I'm glad to see you at the gallery. If the plan allows, we will be back here at 12.15 hours, to be at the gallery and to send some work, of course, and to welcome you to the television broadcast. The break is determined for reasons that neither you nor I can influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We've been informed that the minister is on her way and will be here any minute. Her associates are present and will, of course, record all your suggestions and comments. Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Scientific and Technological Development Committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54665	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, co-workers of the Ministry, Madam Chairman, the Business Society Act, under its fundamental property, the basic law of the future regulation of our economy and economy, has been carefully and seriously discussed in the PUPS Group of Parliament. We have seen the need to bring the law into line with EU legislation, but also with the requirements arising from the practical needs of companies, including state administrations, in the procedures of its application. The new law to companies is actually a significant step in the final definition and establishment of company rights in relation to the previously applicable Company Act and then to the 2005 Business Society Act. The new law, according to us, is for now a good legal framework for future companies that will adapt to the market economy, but we are safe, and freedom of choice under new circumstances of the founders, owners and users of companies. It is no doubt that certain provisions of this law are subject to the complex socio-political and economic constraints in which we live today. This primarily refers to the division of stock companies which have almost exclusively been encouraged by the privatisation process. The PUPS parliamentary group is aware of the fact that our country has very few action practices that would allow it to act as open-minded companies, but in which it would be recognizable and benefits that companies create in their activities for the needs of this country, or its people. We are aware that we have a high degree of uncompliant concepts and provisions of the company law in the West with the Law on the Market of Papers of Values and other financial instruments in Serbia. Nevertheless, we very much advocate that the legislative framework and practice be agreed immediately and that their legal fact be made possible. The state of Serbia and its authorities must do everything to remove any uncertainty in the business of domestic and foreign legal companies, whether they are partner, limited-responsibility societies, command companies or stock companies. The PUPS Group will support the adoption of this law because we believe it will implement the necessary and mandatory alignment with European legislation, then, with the Capital Market Act. The concept of a home and two-cameral management system will take effect, and all rights and obligations of shareholders will be established, with the maximum responsibility of the director, as well as of all members of the board of directors. We support all good legal solutions that determine and ensure the legal position of companies and precisely determine the establishment, management, status changes, changes in legal form, the termination of the work of companies and other issues of importance for the future legal position of all free entrepreneurs in Serbia's economy. The new law regulates the issues of the performance of all societies. It is a good thing that the new law removes ambiguities in the provisions on obligations when drawing up a company's founding act. Also, it is good that all the activities are given in detail and the closer the role of the public procurement institute is determined. It is good that there is a clear difference in the conditions for the acquisition of the right to exercise activity in order to register companies with the existence of prior approval by the competent authority, which was the condition of banks, public companies, certain companies, etc. Our parliamentary group supports the regulation that registers companies, entrepreneurs, branches and representations of foreign legal entities in the Register of Business Entities of Serbia, which is now finally in line with the EU Directive 2009/101. We believe that this law well regulates matters of local jurisdiction of courts according to the headquarters of society, entrepreneurs, or place of business. Also, the basic legal forms of society, as well as the definitions of partners, complements, commanders, members of society and shareholders, are well prescribed. The PUPS Group considers that there is not a sufficiently well-formed provision on the duration of certain companies, although the proposer considers that these provisions are, in fact, clearly defined. Please keep that in mind in further discussion. We believe that the possibility of a silent extension of the existence of companies must be excluded and that the consequences that arise after the time for which the company was established must be precisely prescribed. In that sense, we also submitted a technical amendment. The provisions of the law on the founding act and the statutes of the societies, as well as their amendments and additions, have caused some confusion with us. We believe that some will be removed by amendments, and some provisions should be withdrawn from the draft law. It is well withdrawn and there is a clear difference between companies with limited responsibility and companies. However, this difference is not a matter of will and the possibility of a founding act, but has been established and certified in accordance with the law. All companies will have to make their founding acts in a preparatory period to establish a clear choice of greater legal protection, not through imposed obligation, but through a greater choice of options made available to them, unlike previous legal solutions. The PUPS Group considers that the new law has given the possibility to provide the right form of establishment, to establish the true public order of the company, to use the company’s business name correctly, to protect the roles of members of the company and their capital, and to legally establish and ensure the business capacity of the members of the company. The draft new law finally regulates all responsibilities and obligations of society, and in accordance with the positive legal rules. The law stipulates that society is responsible for the costs incurred with the establishment of society, but also for all costs and responsibilities from the business of society, which we really support. The law prevents incorrect use of the company’s assets, prevents any damage to all creditors of the company, prevents the reduction of the value of the company’s assets and protects the company, which is required to carry out all the obligations undertaken and contracted to its members, business friends, etc. The new law regulates the issues of company headquarters and addresses, as well as business name and participation in the legal and business traffic of our country. The law finally regulates issues of representation and representatives of society, with the possibility that society can represent a natural and legal person. The recognition of employees by employment is a good solution introduced by the prosecution practice, as a form of representation through the business power to conclude legal transactions and take legal and administrative actions for the needs of society. It is good that according to this Prosecution Act, there cannot be at the same time the authority of the Assembly and the responsibility of the Management Board, but only the jurisdiction of the Assembly, with a clear view that the Prosecution is intolerable and that no authority can be given to represent the other person. The PUPS Group believes that it is a good thing that the responsibility for the damages that a representative can do, but also for the damages that they can do, is to overstep the powers they have received. We believe that the new law has well regulated the issue of assets, net assets and underlying capital that is invested in a particular society. We believe that the clearly defined assets of a company made up of all material and immaterial assets owned, as well as other rights which the company achieves on the market or in the banking system. In our opinion, the bill correctly regulates the roles that are entered into society. We support a solution that is prescribed that shares in society can be monetary and non-money and that they are expressed exclusively in dinars. It is a good formulation that regulates the status, obligations and responsibility of private entrepreneurs. This also regulates status issues, establishment, business and termination of the responsibility of all entrepreneurs. The responsibility of the entrepreneurs is also prescribed by the obligation of responsibility to the entire assets to carry out the registered activity, which is of paramount importance in relation to the previous solutions that we had in the Company Act and in the Business Society Act until 2005. The issues of headquarters and the place of performance of private entrepreneurs are detailed. The new law regulates the specific concept and establishment of partner societies. It is now the first time that obligations and responsibilities are aligned with other companies. This draft regulates the roles of a partner society, issues of participation, as well as issues of the leadership of partner societies. The new law regulates all issues relating to the establishment and operation of command companies. Control, supervision, accountability, termination of status and way of investment in a command company shall be established. It is prescribed that a company which has at least two members is a parent company, of which at least one member of the company's liabilities corresponds to unlimited solidarity, and at least one member corresponds to the assets limited to the amount of its non-Union part. The PUPS Group considers that this law is a well-organised issue of limited liability companies. It is good that the limited number of members that the company can have is excluded, which is the abolished book of members of society, which is the introduction of membership records. It is good that the membership property is obtained by registering and that the underlying capital is expressed in dinars of at least 50,000 dinars, which has not been the case so far. According to the new solutions, the subscribed capital is paid after the company's registration and an additional payment system has been developed, as well as the possibility of a choice between a home and a two-home management system. It is good that there is now the possibility of selecting more directors who can be legal persons, abolishing boards of directors, and separating management functions from supervisory functions. The PUPS Group considers that the bill makes quite good the capital of the companies, with the general remark that our requirement for capital to be public, from correct and concrete sources of income. It is good for the capital to be recognizable and not to come from a gray or unknown zone and it is good that it is expressed in dinars. Serbia's primary economic environment is dinar and is used to measure assets, measure liabilities, determine capital, measure income and expenditure in all financial reports. The PUPS Group believes that this law should support provisions that allow the integration of companies on the principle of security, economic solidarity and mutual responsibility. We particularly support the provisions relating to the creation of branches of companies with foreign companies in our business space. This law is a basic and necessary professional law, which must address basic principles in its implementation and, above all, all aspects of corporate governance, protect investors and minority shareholders, ensure registration and launch of new jobs for the greater employment of our workers, protect all creditors in business, provide a single legal framework for all entrepreneurs and provide a complete economic environment for the investment of foreign companies. We would like to note, as a parliamentary group, that it is necessary for this law to come up with twelve or eleven new solutions as soon as possible, which will primarily define the adoption of laws on urban and construction land, the adoption of public works laws, which would regulate corporate and privatisation of public enterprises, the adoption of a consistent regulation on public private partnership. These are the laws that come out of this law. And, as the most important measure, it is the measure that needs to be directed to consolidate the state and bring order to its basic functions and control of spending. The PUPS Group considers that this law provides, to the greatest extent, the answers necessary for the creation of a new business base for the successful operation of all small, medium and large entrepreneurs and for the creation of a wide base for new employment of professional labour and highly educated personnel, while accepting certain technical amendments necessary to remove inaccuracy. With a fundamental improvement in the resolution of certain members of the law, the PUPS Group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54666	Thank you. Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome the students and professors of Hopeda Petrovic Medical School from Zemun, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently following part of our session from the Great Hall gallery today. Attending are: Jelena Amanovic, Zorica Angelović, Marko Bozic, Aleksandar Govedarević, Aleksandra Govedarević, Dijana Golubović, Bojana Grujic, Aleksandar Dudak, Dijana Đorđevski, Dragoljub Žikić, Radana Jerosimić, Marina Marjanović, Anja Pavović, Branka Skok, Milos Stajić, Marko Stanojević, Ana Tomić, Milica Čaveša, Stefan Junić, Natasa Šaponja, Tamara Šarenac, Jelena Dujović, Kristina Vidosavljević, Angela Branković, Martina Dumbelović, Katarina Simić, Milos Lic, Svetlana Mrvoš, Kristina Tasić, Branko Tasić, Brankica Ješić, Jovana Poljšavić, Miod Smović, Borisa Žović, Vita Živić, Vita Ivana Ivana Ivana Žović, Vita Ivana Žović, Vita Ivana Žović, Vita Žović, Vita Ivana Ivan Žović. Let's give it up for our dear guests. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54667	Thank you. Indeed, the system law on the agenda, which, in my opinion, first produced one such conclusion: since there were to be laws on selecting MPs and financing parties on the agenda, and they were delayed due to additional consultations, public debates, measuring solutions, I can only conclude one thing – about what is not your concern, the court is easier, unfortunately. What we're not the most interested in is the easiest decision we make and the fastest way to put those laws on the agenda. Does this deserve the Business Society Act, which we systematically need to sort out what we all call the problem of this society? After four minutes of three laws, was it enough for Minister Ciric to explain, and then went to do party work or ministerial work outside this room? Does that prove the meaning of this law? I can agree with his principled remarks that this law should be resolved, or tried to solve the problems that companies have within themselves, in terms of the relations of minority and majority shareholders, i.e. in terms of jeopardizing the rights of minority shareholders, which is why we have daily strikes, anger at a judicial system that does not solve these problems, and that, on the other hand, we have a problem between societies, which we can call financial indiscipline, indifference nodes and extorted lending in our language of life. And, right away, this law does not give answers to these questions. So, the fact that companies are forced to trade with each other without money and to carry out this traffic by creating increased inflation even at a time when money is not printed, because at the price of products that sell on a delayed installment of expected inflation, it says that monetary policy can't do much because we have a country where we have dual schizophrenia, where we earn in dinars and spend in dinars, but the state and individuals borrow in euros and thus save. These problems were only raised by the law by the fact that the dinar as an accounting category cited the indexation of the value of companies, but did not do enough, and that the dinar could indeed become not only a legal means of payment, but also what we forgot to be – the guardian of the value. Why am I saying the law didn't answer those questions? If you delete with legal solutions the obligation of a company to have a giro-account marked on its memorandum, the number and where the current account is kept, does this contribute to greater discipline or does someone need to engage in the investigation process and to see where the bank is held with the current account of the company with which it is to enter into business relations? Does increased responsibilities in relations between businesses contribute to solutions to the prosecution, to the responsibilities of those who are in the position of contract signers? No, it's not enough. Through concrete and individual solutions, I will present to the citizens the objections, but I must say that this law really brings the papers, because if the 600 members of the SNS are subject to 49 amendments, whose adoption we expect, I really cannot say that this law deserves only criticism. But what is fundamental, which is to solve the problem of financial indiscipline, indifference and the fact that some of the payment traffic in this country is being carried out in the so-called so-called ". In foreign currencies, I wanted to say so-called, we call it scientificly dollaring, but it's done in euros, until yesterday in stamps, or any foreign currency, this law doesn't solve, and it should have. I will start with the solutions themselves, for example from the amendments to Article 8. Article 8 defines (the colleagues who spoke about this earlier) as having to resent the fact that he missed the legal form of society as: a partner, a commandant, a limited-responsibility society and a company of action. In a law that predicates to accept everything new that is happening in the market system, in economies in the environment forgets to write one single supplement – and other forms of society. This implies leaving the possibility of being set up for example. specialised companies with special status and variable capital, companies with labour participation, management companies, cooperative companies, companies that can be controlled by the state, companies in which there is a public interest even when the state has no participation, for example, municipal activities, public private partnerships. Did these high-level teams that worked this law really think that only these four forms meant these societies that are the history and reality of the companies of all those countries whose experience with the right, as a good experience, we also call upon the orderly states to which we want to look? We have responded by submitting the amendments, and I really expect that something I consider to be a failure, to allow the establishment and such societies, will be removed in something that will be called an individual debate. Furthermore, Article 15 defines contracts with regard to society. Here's how I can practically prove that remark from a moment ago. Article 15 speaks of the fact that by concluding a contract, members of companies can regulate certain obligations, specific obligations towards society, rights and obligations relating to the transfer of shares. I believe that to a large extent they cover everything called bargaining and covering economic life, but why is it not written and the obligation to register and publish these contracts in the Register of Business Entities? At a time when every information about a special person whose life you are interested in because he participates in political life, makes important decisions, is the subject of allowed interest and information available to the public, we leave a secret contract like this, which can be of great interest to all those who want to make business and any other contractual relations with the company. So I think that failure should be corrected, that all these agreements that regulate the life of society, relations within it should be made available to those who are going to do business with that society. I believe that one of the very important amendments and members of the law is Article 18, which has the wrong title, is inappropriate to our legal practice, which is – Breaking legal personality. The member of the law would have to be called - the abuse of a business society after the Serbian Progressive Party's solution, because this law-breaking institute is not something new that is introduced by this law. He was also familiar with the Company Act, but we called it “the illusion of legal personality. ” In the current Business Society Act, this identical institute is defined differently by Article 15, I have to admit more inaccurately, and it's called - abuse of legal subjectivity. This term “breaching the legal personality,” which you will agree, comes from German law, let me not be resented by the good acquaintances of that language, the Durchruffs laftung, so called, is in fact the abuse of economic society in our termology of reality, because its limited responsibility is being misused. The legal personality of a company shall be used precisely for the purpose of obtaining its members, but that separate legal personality shall not be misused, and that is, the purpose of Article 18. Article 18. The bill is similar to the article 54 of the former Company Act, but you will correct me if I am wrong, and the Slovenian Law on Commercial Companies. The proposal determines the responsibility of the person in the event of abuse. So what's controversial is that the rope is determined responsible for the abuses of the company. As a result, only certain members of society, commanders, members of companies with limited liability and shareholders are responsible. But, I ask your attention, most importantly, there are no members of the board of directors, and that is the failure of article 18, as you have suggested here. We believe it is necessary to foresee responsibility in the event of the abuse of a company and for the members of the board of directors of society. With regard to the bodies of the company that set out the proposal, we have extended our responsibility to the members of the Supervisory Board and the Directors. These two bodies cannot receive a “response order”, but we consider the inclusion of board members, directors, or executive directors really necessary in order to place the responsibility of all members of the management of a single society. As necessary, do I need to remind you how often in practice abuses of these very organs occur? The most common are single-member societies, but abuse also has to do with privatisation, i.e. turning social enterprises into private-owned companies, where the application of such extended responsibilities really has a lot of justification. This kind of responsibility is a feature of Anglo-Saxon law that has a rich court practice in the application of this institute, and I really think it should have been applied and that it's not too late for that. On the contrary, our case-law is indeed poor in these experiences and in the application of this institute, and we must admit that such practices and the need to have and judicial practice because of these abuses were indeed many. The solution we propose would free the courts, give them the freedom to apply this institute more often. This is necessary in order for the law to achieve a fundamental purpose – that creditors are more free to enter into relations with companies, which would also significantly reduce the risk of investment. On the other hand, in this Article 18, which I really find very important, we have added a new view that makes a difference between the responsibility of a member of society, or a member of the management of a society who has abused a company and who has not personally done so, but we cannot forget its responsibility if he has benefited personally from it. It is in the interest of the creditors that the company's security member is also responsible for the company's obligations to the benefit he has achieved through abuse. Again, security officials, meaning members, MPs, members of the board of society, must be protected from unlimited solidarity. That's exactly the kind of solution we predicted by adding that other attitude. We have also complemented this article so that the proposal must not leave a sense of abuse in terms of using the company's business name in order to create an identity delusion, which is often the case. I can only refer you to a recent newspaper text where one of the directors of the transport company complains that he can't handle himself like the others, only deals with one company, and he can't open up dozens of them that have a similar activity and change only one name in name, and thus walks into a circle of commitment, property and profit. So, we must not create preconditions for this law that the identity of a company is misused by allowing that delusion of identity. In this article, we have added point 5, which is foreseen as a form of abuse of a company of purposely borrowing and bankruptcy, and then the creation of a new society with a similar name. As I said, the businessmen complain; the resourceful can, and the others say, are not resourceful enough and afraid that even those drawers that have been locked up for a long time... It's probably the long stand and the acidification in some drawers pays, but the day comes when all the locked drawers open or, as the people would say, the devil comes for his own, so they come to collect all the abuses of this species. In order for us, as a serious society, not to leave someone at will or obligation to unlock those drawers in which unpaid taxes and various types of abuses stand, we must make it impossible by law on companies to prevent this kind of deliberate borrowing and bringing society into bankruptcy, but also abuses in terms of misleading the creation of a society with a similar name. Speaking of this member, you have to understand that the law, the good law, has to have the greatest connection to real life. It can't be hermetically closed and pretend it doesn't know what's going on in life, because its meaning and value is just being applied and checked in the life itself that needs to be arranged by businesses. The next thing I want to talk about is a solution contained in Article 25 that speaks about the use of a business name, seal and other data in documents. This is exactly what I stated in the principled interpretation of this law – that the business name and headquarters of a bank with which the company has an account and the account number must be stated and mandatory by law. Because if we are fighting fraud, we must practically show that we are making these frauds and abuses impossible by law, not by actually making them possible. The next thing I want to talk about is something about legal heirs and the use of the name of a company, in terms of the name for which legal heirs should enable them to continue in the economic life of a company. So, if the company’s business name contains the personal name of the natural person, it is necessary that, if that person died, he gets the consent of his legal heirs from the first succession order. Don't leave too wide a circle of faces that, according to this legal solution, should give consent and that practically this legal provision is not applicable in practice, that it literally be a dead letter on paper. When it comes to a person who does not have close relatives, it is very difficult to obtain information about who his successors are because the law defines them as his successors; it is not at all said which order. Then it's very possible that someone accidentally violates the provisions of the Personal Name Protection Act. So it is necessary to know which legal heirs to ask for consent. Since I'm running out of 20 minutes, I'll continue the debate on the law as part of the discussion list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54668	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54669	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is indeed a pity that one, first, needs a law, and then a law that has largely responded adequately to serious problems in our economic life in such an irresponsible way passes through parliament. I don't know how you, Mrs. Kalanovic, can contribute to this debate because you didn't write it. We can't seriously discuss this law with you. We also miss all the other members of the government, who, I think, would be obliged to sit next to you. I will tell you why – because this law puts an end to all the nonsense and illusions that we were exposed to by your government, Mrs Kalanovic. This law is the answer to that unsustainable policy of pulsism and demagogy that has made Serbia a society of citizens who are convinced that they should think with their stomachs so they don't think with their heads. I ask you, Mrs. Kalanovic, did the government learn this law? Have government officials and services learned this law? Do they know today what property is? Do they know what capital is? Do they know what it is to treat attention in the company where they sit on the board of directors? We can spend hours on a whole series of members who make very precise arrangements for relations within a business society. He's personally the most important member of 44th and I'll tell you why. In 2011, eleven years since the start of the transition in our society, in the light of the legislation with which the government comes to parliament, there is the following sentence: "In Serbia, there is still a general confusion about what property is and what capital is. In simple terms, no simple fact is accepted that, as the profit is the difference between the total income and the total cost of the company, so is the capital of that company the difference between its total assets and its total liabilities. This means that, regardless of the seemingly valuable property that a company may have, it can also have a negative value of capital. “ Why not read this sentence to the members of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, then ask them to change the Law on Planning and Construction, which they destroyed the country’s construction industry and crippled us in the economic crisis? Can they learn that? Can he learn the government's authority, the Anti-Corruption Council, what capital and what property? Can the Ministers of Government learn that? Or, at least they come here to tell society that we have to wake up, face ourselves, the way we are, and then go through all those who were more or less in the same position as we are today, but today they don't share our destiny because they have otherwise responded to the challenges they've faced. This law is the end of your political career so far. No state economy, no Ministry of National Investment Plan, no more ideas; there are no ministers visiting factories that have opened up before, but there is responsibility. Chapter 6180 — Obligations of those in the management of a company. Are the ministers of Mirko Cvetkovic familiar with their duties? Are the representatives of the ruling coalition familiar with these obligations? Do they know that, by law, they guarantee the damage they have caused by acting unconsciously, undermining personal interests or acting in conflict of interest? Here, just one example: "Banatski Dvor" - 99.92% of the property of the Republic of Serbia, 0.08% of the property of the Russian Federation. In the Management Board, which should deal with the duty of attention, protecting the interests of those who are the majority shareholder, the state, which has over 99% ownership, is in the minority. Why does it matter? Because, Mrs Kalanovic, we pay almost 500 euros in cubic metres of gas intervention and expect our business to be under these abnormal measures of NBS, which leads its policy and protects its interests by defending itself from the government, which leads its policy and protects its interests, and thus one and the other institutions are destroying the interests of society, therefore, this economy under such pressures should be competitive with the economy of our environment, let's say to Croatia, which thousands of cubic meters pays 270 euros, or, God forbid, German pay 150. Does that have to be so? He doesn't have to. If, for example, we had a gas warehouse, then we wouldn't have to buy at intervention prices. And we'll never have a gas storage facility, because the one who controls the Banatski Dvor right now is more suited to selling us gas for 500 euros than to sell us at the price everyone else buys, and then store it. So we regret that a law that fundamentally changes relations in our economy goes this way, in an atmosphere where we need to spend our twenty minutes, then ten or fifteen, and go home. This law is the answer to the feeling of injustice that exists in every failed company in Serbia, which you also meet when you meet workers who say – we created this and this is worth something. This law is a point in the government's demagogy, for example, in Belgrade's urbanism. For three years, no dinar of the Belgrade Building Land Directorate has earned! The city's most productive company for three years has not earned a single dollar because no one has paid a fee for used construction land. Well, let it be said that Miskovic and Beko cannot build a city on the banks of the Danube. And can anyone else? Can anyone say that there's a difference between the consciousness that's been held here artificially for the past eleven years and the consciousness that we need to get out of that source where we disappear? People in Serbia need to know what the property of the company is, that it is a sum of the value of material and immaterial goods and that the value of the property is not equal to the value of the company's capital, the shares of the company. That's why we can't sell Telecom the way we imagined, because Telecom goes with some rights and some obligations; and a loan for Telecom of Republika Srpska, which we took by paying for this Telecom 200 million more than those of the same Austrians, who then took care of themselves and not of us; and 15% of the shares that will be divided; there are also commitments based on investments that are necessary. On this subject, society faces what must be done in the country. This law is a scanner of our economic reality. Citizens have the right to know that. How will he know? Those who work can't track our monologues here. Those who don't work long ago have lost their sense of meaning for what we're doing here, so this, more or less, is our internal debate that will benefit from the law offices and legal services of companies that will now be easier to solve a whole series of unnecessary problems that are effectively detected and that, more or less, will be removed. This law introduces capitalism into Serbia, finally. That's what to say. It's about the rights of shareholders in a country where the stock market is practically destroyed. The talk is about partner societies in a country where it is understood that the only form of economic activity is muttering with the state. All of this needs to be demystified. This is a new beginning, and that is why we need the Prime Minister, as well as in all other situations. It is impossible to bring the country out of a crisis without the Prime Minister, without the finance minister, without a cabinet ready to tell the citizens what they need to know. It is not true that this country has no internal potential for a new policy. It is true that it does not understand this policy because it is hypnotized by the population and demagogy which, unfortunately, has too much in the government's measures and procedures; not always, there is what needs to be supported, but this situation is unsustainable, that fundamental law, in practice, is brought into an atmosphere that is less significant and less affecting society in Serbia than the "Gykina Barrenica" weekend. Let's go over there and explain to the people what this is all about, explain to those who sit in empty halls, to stopped machines, the difference between what they see in front of them and the real value that this property has around them. This is the law needed to speed up privatisation. Without that privatisation, we can't get out of the problem we're in. This law confirms how right we were during the previous three years, constantly criticising the unsustainable Law on Planning and Construction. What do they have to tell us now, Minister Dulic and the on-call justice fighters from your ruling coalition? When someone buys an abandoned factory for the money he singled out and that's consistent with the value of the factory's capital, not the property, what did he buy and who he cheats on? If we do not clear these issues and do not give them clear answers here in parliament, then we will pass a law that will facilitate individual situations and help solve a whole series of individual problems, but will not have the systemic effect that is necessary. This is about entrepreneurs. This law is their need, it facilitates their position, and these people need to know. Where will they hear? Let's just put all the bracelets on our feet; that's how we'll get into the "hedline" of state media, and in such a way we might send information that an important law has been passed in Serbia. Otherwise, this one won't be anywhere. Another question for you, Mrs. Kalanovic, since you represent the government. Since this law is passed, does this mean that we are about to amend those laws that are now in direct conflict with this company law? Will the political situation that destroyed this country's economy stop, because it was expected from businessmen that they were paying more than they paid just because the state thinks in such a way that it compensates, and that impression of the loss that follows most in the transition? Here we heard the criticisms of the country's largest company during the afternoon debate. Most of these are owned by either international financial institutions, parts, or foreign corporations. In a crisis, parliament cannot handle such a thing without comments from representatives of the authorities who listened to it. It is desirable in Serbia. There is no problem, Serbia has survived, and Dragoljub Markovic, Karic has disappeared, is no longer a current Cepter, and we will call ourselves Beka and Miskovic, only the question of who is next in this series of our self-deception that millions of people can get a chance to live a normal life by transferring responsibility to those who have taken advantage of the opportunity in an incompetent system of incompetent authorities. I'd stay on this one, since there are five minutes left for that part of the debate that, I think, we have the right to return to the Minister in charge, because we really can't discuss any of the issues with you. It would be pointless, since you didn't even represent this law... I believe you voted for him at the government session, but nothing more than that. With the Prime Minister on the political aspects of the law, and with the Minister of Economy on some concrete issues, particularly on this case of security management in the underground gas storage company "Banatski Dvor".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54670	Thank you. Vice President Verica Kalanovic has a word. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54671	Yes, I am Verica Kalanovic, vice-president for economic and regional development and former NIP minister. I thank the MP for the nice rhetorical and dictative praise of the Business Society Act, but I, believe me, have not heard a single question, specifically, which you have asked. It is clear that I am in contact with businessmen, entrepreneurs, companies, public and state-owned enterprises, unions and workers, whom you cannot have an answer for whether you are the Minister of the NIP, or whether you are the Deputy Prime Minister or you are the Prime Minister, but you must give concrete answers. I wanted to give concrete answers to your remarks, but aside from the serious objections to the Law on Planning and Construction, I don't know which companies that have been recapitalised by international financial institutions, if they are international financial institutions, I haven't heard any concrete remarks about this law. That's why, thank you very much, I expect you to support him very much, because you say it's a barrel and a lecturer for the future functioning of future governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54672	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54673	Mrs. Kalanovic, there is nothing questionable unless we understand each other. For LDP, it was never a problem to agree with the fact that today is Tuesday because of what you say, and you are from the government. We are a party that said three years ago that it should be carried out by the trench society, that it should accept the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic, then head of the SRS parliamentary group, because it cannot be half of Serbia in Europe and the other half to stay aside. That's when we started formulating something called public interest. This public interest today obliges you, as Government, to say more about this law, in favour of it, than I am in opposition. And why do you think you can sit on two chairs in the future when it's clear that something like that is unsustainable and that no one has succeeded, I can't give answers. You can continue to act that way. I mentioned as an example of the Law on Planning and Construction. Does this mean we became a capitalist society? Well, say it. Or will you continue to buy votes with unions, to open factories instead of your party committees, since there are no more policies, and so in every election campaign every party in power continues to behave? That's what we're looking for. Did the government learn what property was, the difference between assets and capital, did she learn that? If she has learned, let her say so and let her declare the truth to this society, not that we have the law under the table, but usually the right that regulates our relations. It's not normal for us to speak more in accordance with this law than the government who proposed it. We understand why this law is important and we have no problem supporting it. We have a problem with the government that runs away from fundamental reforms, and it meets the standard by adopting these laws, because this is not the only good law that you have proposed. Unfortunately, when the concept is wrong, no individual measure can be sufficiently efficient and acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54674	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54675	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the most important system laws. I dare say five or ten of the most significant system laws are in order. In all likelihood, the opposition and the position agree. I am glad that there have been a lot of harsh words and, in some ways, that we have so far agreed that this law is conceptually well-set and that there have been no significant objections to its concept, but I will have to go back to history. Today, on the agenda, we have the eighth law on companies, companies since the end of World War II. According to my record, there were thirty more amendments and additions to this law in that period. So about 40 legal acts since the end of World War II in this area. Only the 1996 Company Act has been amended six times in five years. So, a total of 40 legal acts in this area in this period -- it's really too much for businessmen, for those who should have applied those laws, but, apparently, for the economy that should have suffered all these experiments, I would say. For comparison, the Bond Relations Act has not changed since 1978, it has been in force for 32 years. There have been certain technical changes, compliance with the needs of the economy, some new contracts have been subject to regulation of the law. Why is this so and why does this law have greater stability? First of all, when it was written it was taken into account the expertise of the author, it was written by the best lawyers; it was respected by the most modern laws in the area, above all by Code de civil, French law, and by certain models it had in German legislation. So there were no experiments. On the other hand, in this area, in the Company Act, or the Business Society Act, we had normative wanderings, serious normative wanderings, on which, as someone said earlier today, we need to put a stop. That is why we are present at one point in which the adoption of this law should introduce order into the area of business. Again, I will say a few words concerning the history of legislation in the area of business. We had the first phase of traditional legislation, until World War II, beginning with the Commercial Code of the Kingdom of Serbia (1860), the Act of Actions (1910), the 1911 Commercial Code, which introduced action - shareholders into our legislation. So it's 1911. Later on, it was lifted. Then we come to the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia: 1937 was passed the Law on Commercial Society, which, of course, was not even applied because of the start of World War II, and its application was disabled. After the war, we have an experiment to experiment with. First, it passed a Law on state-owned companies in 1946, which it declared to the state-owned authorities. So companies were declared state authorities. The director was just a transmission and a realiser of state decisions. It's about the classic administrative management of the economy. Let's not forget, and after the repeal of this law, we had a similar practice, perhaps a little less with the foothold of normative, or law. The introduction and application of workers' self-management, the adoption of the Basic Business Management Act and senior business associations by working collectives in 1950. Business management was given to workers, a new experiment in our economy. Changes in the Constitution in 1963 led to the adoption of the Company Act. That law was passed in 1965. Practically, according to these changes, the director was no longer a state body, even formally. A new revision of this legislation followed the adoption of a famous Law on Joint Labour in 1976, following constitutional changes in 1974. This law introduces new terms: basic organisation of joint work, work organisation, SOUR etc. Directors become incoherent and collegiate management bodies. We end up with a period of transition: 1988, after constitutional changes, the Company Act was passed. At the small door we're trying to introduce a market economy. This law abolished the term ‘moral-political similarity’; moral-political similarity was no longer necessary for the selection of company bodies. But then we're already approaching the multi-party, so this similarity will replace the party resemblance, which, I must say, is no less dangerous for a healthy business life. This law was changed in 1990 to bring the new one in 1996, which was changed six times, the last time in 2002. The most significant changes took place in 2004, when the Business Society Act was passed today. Short on the law we're changing. The evaluations of scientific and professional public were that the Business Society Act that we brought in 2004 was good, but incomplete, in the sense that there were many legal gaps left and that certain areas were not fully decorated. That part created legal uncertainty for the security owners of capital, and on the other hand, it allowed abuses of unwitting capital owners. To a good extent, he was inconsistencies with European legislation. Now, in order for this to not be a historical tract, here's a few words about the new company law. I had to make an introduction in which I tried to explain what our economic legislation has been going through in the last half century and what conditions our economy, or our businessmen and entrepreneurs have been doing. Since I have been working on several textbooks working on a comparative review and analyzed legal systems in other countries in this area, I will try to answer whether this law allows for sustainability and whether this law could be, such as the Law on Bond Relations, in force for the next thirty years, of course with any changes. My answer is yes. My humble opinion is that this law provides such an opportunity and that this is a quality law, which will allow for the safety of the business of companies. In doing so, this congregation may play a historical role in this area; we will interrupt the experiment in this area that has cost us so far, above all in the economic sphere. But the law itself is not the solution. It's about law enforcement. So far, we've been in all areas, and in this one, we've had a lot of problems in law enforcement. What is good in this law, and what distinguishes it from the previous Business Society Act? First of all, it was done in accordance with European legislation in this area, primarily with German and French legal practices, and thus with European norms. This is seen from the compliance review with the 1, 2, 3, 6, 11 and 12 of the EU Directive; most of these tables, when it comes to compliance, are defined – fully harmonised. Therefore, the provisions of this law are to the fullest extent in line with European legislation, i.e. with the directives in this area. What will it create and what will it bring? This will, above all, lead to a better understanding of foreigners for our legal system in this area (to date, nothing has been clear to them, especially by 2004, when it comes to our economic legislation), but also a better understanding of our businessmen of foreign company law, which is now in line with this law. So one legal barrier will be removed. New institutions have also been introduced with regard to the protection of shareholders, and this was one of the shortcomings of the previous law, particularly when it comes to the protection of minority shareholders. A detailed procedure has been developed for the work of the Assembly of Shareholders, with new and better solutions. The law also regulates the area of entrepreneurship, so that, in the future, in one law, in the company law, we will have regulated all economic operators; as you know, in addition to the Business Society Act, there was the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. This is a much more practical solution, although certain burdens of professional character could be put in place, that however, actions or private entrepreneurs are not companies and that they could not stand under that title. However, from the point of view of practicality and the need for economy, I find this solution appropriate. New institutions have also been introduced in the management of companies – a home and two-home management system in a limited company and a shareholder society. If it is a one-home management system, then society has, practically, two bodies: the Assembly and the Directors. In the case of a two-home management system, a limited liability company or a company has three bodies: the Assembly, the Supervisory Board and the Director. Let me say right now and agree with the predecessors, this will mean the need to educate our businessmen. They're meeting this for the first time. If you were to ask one of our businessmen, in a few days, if there is a home or two-home management system in a company and what they will decide, believe it would be a problem. So, the ministry, professional associations will have to deal with this issue. This is for us, for Serbia an unknown area, such as some other institutes that are mentioned here. On the other hand, as regards the introduction of the Supervisory Board as a body in the two-home system, it is not a supervisory committee that has existed so far in public enterprises or in companies. According to its powers, the Supervisory Board is more like the board of directors than the supervisory board that was once to oversee the work of directors. Therefore, the Supervisory Board has the authority to establish a business strategy, the company's business objectives, appoints executive directors, convenes a session of the assembly, determines financial reports. It's all been done so far, in a way, by the board of directors. So, the Supervisory Board is now, in a way, becoming a board of directors. This was the case in other countries in the environment and in the EU, however, we did not use this practice. There's a more detailed question about the roles. A system of independent members of the Supervisory Board has been introduced for greater security. These are members of the Supervisory Board who are not in any financial or other relationship with the company. The responsibility of directors and members of society has been strengthened, which is quite justified. The protection of trustees has been strengthened, I don't know if enough, but some institutes are heading towards strengthening trustees' protection, which we have had significant problems with so far. It has been introduced, in legal form, by electronic means of communication and thus becomes legal but desirable way of managing companies. Business companies were left with six months to comply with the new law in certain areas. Once again, I stress that we have many new institutes here and that the Ministry has a significant role to play in implementing this law. Since I believe that this law will bring permanent stability to regulation of the legal position of economic operators, and therefore more certain conditions for the establishment of economic operators, I will support the law. I believe that this is the opinion of all MPs of the Democratic Party because our party is aimed at stability in this area, stability in all areas. The area of engagement, as I said at first, is one of the basics. I would be pleased to contribute to this stability with my voice and to end the legal experiment that has been conducted over our economy for years through the inadequate legislation we have had in this area. I hope that this assembly, the Democratic Party and coalition partners will create conditions with this law to better attract businesses. In the end, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54676	I thank Mr. Veselinović. I give my word to MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54677	Thank you, President. As far as this set of laws is concerned, I will talk about the proposals of the law on companies and the contractual restructuring of companies, because they reflect our desire to learn about the mistakes made in the process of institution building and to change the legal framework that has been partially proven inadequate for our economic practice, so that we should take advantage of the opportunity to provide a better basis for improving cooperative governance and the overall economic environment. When a formal analysis of the existing Business Society Act, which was adopted with the same intention as this bill, it is clear that it was not bad in itself, but that the legislators were faced with a particular challenge in a country where there was no spontaneous development of informal institutions that had been translated into law. The still applicable law was not a formalisation of dominant practice but rather was a way of achieving desirable practice through the offering of frameworks in which it proved good in countries with a long-standing, uninterrupted tradition of market economy. When you engage in such a challenge of social engineering, then it is difficult to expect that every plant will be introduced to the ground and flourish in the most beautiful way, but also the knowledge of leading experts and businessmen shows that it was not enough at the time to predict all possible situations in perspective, in application of the law. When the line is drawn, it becomes clear to us that the existing law must be improved and that it is better to write a new one than to make changes and supplement the existing one, because the existing law has shown some weaknesses in the past. Of course, we cannot pretentively claim that we have now removed all the chills, but we can look for better solutions, as long as the economic practice itself, designed through transactions on the domestic market, and through our European integration process, does not make a little more transparent veil that always hides the future that we have yet to create. To simplify, if we are a little more aware today of the restrictions that every law makes in terms of corporate governance and at all corporate governance are still developing, then we are aware that at some point in the future we will have to improve the current proposal that will become a valid law, but that the scale of change will be smaller, and that our mistakes in looking at future needs will be reduced to a minimum because we will have enough practice and experience in the economy that will be our best way to eliminate these mistakes. What are the main weaknesses of the current law? Still in force, the Business Society Act provides a pre-named governance structure that corresponds to far larger stock companies than the average company in Serbia is open. Although reductions are possible in practice, it is not rare for companies to have a formal management structure, and that it essentially comes down to the management concentration in the hands of the director, where the board of directors took over the role of the Benign Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board does not perform any function. Actionivism in Serbia does not exist in developed form, and management has been passed on to agents who are in the existing consolidation of forces, taking into account insider privatisation and incomplete ownership concentration, have become owners of non-owned capital. In addition, the existing law limits shareholders' rights through the possibility of a constitutional reduction of their rights, and the rights to constitutional changes have been given to boards of directors. A wide range of mandatory bodies of stock companies have been bridged in such a way that one person is at the same time the chairman of the Management Board, and a member of the Supervisory Board, both the Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board. Management and the board of directors were able to refute the decisions of the Assembly of Shareholders, but not the shareholders in front of the court that on their behalf and on behalf of the company, they refuted the decisions of the manager and board of directors. If we look across a broad perspective, corporate governance in Serbia remains at a low level of development, so the difficulties arising from the relationship are very pronounced – an agent. Looking at the period since the beginning of this century, the market has been moving towards concentrated ownership and delisting of companies from the Belgrade Stock Exchange, as a result of the level of protection of shareholders, avoiding stock exchanges through bids to take over, manage and control companies, as well as the way in which action is created through privatisation. In Serbia, there is an unequivocal gap between legislative norms and their application, i.e. rights and the practical situation. Basic problems can be seen in non-application of existing legislative provisions, in the unexplained competences of institutions, inexperience and adoption of legislative solutions without their alignment with corporate opportunities in Serbia. The basic low-level problem of corporate governance does not lie in legal norms, although improvements are tailored to practice possible and desirable, but in the weakness of the institutions applying them. Hence, and our certain fence when it comes to the effects of this law. Without wanting to... which is so unique to many who are considered champions in reform and transition, which are in practice being designated as their kind of social engineering bearers, for which there is no need, the SPS points to the fact that Serbia is a country where companies have not lived in the way that exists in a club whose membership we will become during this decade. Serbia is a country where the quality of corporate helmet management and where it is still reluctant to go into the separation of ownership from governance. The land economy is our reality and we have nothing against it, but we think it is necessary to give more opportunities to action through the creation of a framework that action societies, which as such exist because of the clear interest of shareholders and not because legal form is prescribed, will make it an attractive form. How do we know that the creators first, the drafts and then the bill thoroughly analyzed corporate governance in Serbia, as well as the structure of our economy, there is no reason not to rely on their findings. They are in favour of this claim about the land economy as a reality and an underdeveloped segment of the stock company. Our economy is also specific to the fact that more than 25% of companies make up companies where there were no employees, and that more than 50% of companies are companies that employ between one and five employees. It can therefore be said that there is a rise in micro-economic societies in Serbia, which, according to EU criteria, account for over 80% of the total number of companies. The next feature is the concentration of ownership in corporations. This process has been the result of some solutions that envisioned mandatory listing, although from the very beginning there has been no interest in the company. Any force for certain solutions that are contrary to the interests of those who force themselves to such solutions cannot create the desired effects, nor the action societies that exist in the West, which was the case in Serbia. The wave of forced listings has led to effective delisting, as stock companies where the concentration is largely not using the advantages that the listing should bring, turning their listing on the stock market into a free entry into another public file. Exchange quotations have brought concentration to many stock companies with a dispersion of the source of funding and ownership and any forced mechanism in this process that would certainly take place on or off the stock market. So today three-quarters of the stock companies have a majority owner, while in 57% there is a owner who has over two-thirds of the ownership. If associated faces are analysed, the concentration is even higher, several times higher. These are trends that are unlikely to change, but small shareholders are a endangered species in Serbia, and forced-listed companies would be happy to leave a role they do not need. All the reasons for the new and improved legislation are there. The new law makes some, I dare say, decisive and adequate solutions to the current challenges in this area. The law focuses on a better arrangement of two key authorities. These are, under one, the exchange, implementation and protection of property rights in legal traffic between natural and legal persons and, under two, the relationship between the employer and the agent. This proposal clearly assigns and lays down ways of implementing and protecting ownership rights in relations between undertakings and external and interest-based stockholders. The terminology of economic science, the Business Society Act tends to reduce the transaction costs of implementation, exchange and protection of ownership rights and therefore works in the best way to improve the functioning of businesses. The authorities that will experience the biggest promotion are those where the most problems have occurred in the past – the protection of small shareholders and corporate governance. Also, there are significant developments in the determination of the market price. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill reduces the percentage of capital that gives the right to propose the agenda and convene sessions and the extraordinary session of the assembly from 10% to 5%. In some situations it can be positive, but in practice there have been a lot of negative cases when it was 10%, not 5%, so it should be taken with the reserve and found some solution that would be good for all companies to function. In the case of a re-session of the public company assembly, the majority necessary for the decision to be taken is set at least a quarter of the total number of votes in the question. It's more than in the current law, which is good, because that provision has been abused in the past. The bill, as well as the current law, gives freedom to choose between home and two-home management, but the method of choice and the authority's jurisdiction are consistently governed by this proposal. The non-public organisations shall be able to have one or two directors, the Board of Directors, or the Executive Board. One person can no longer be a director or member of a supervisory board in more than five societies. The term of office of directors takes four years and, which is good, the mandate ends automatically if the financial report is not adopted, unless the assembly adopts a financial report. According to new solutions, the education of three commissions is mandatory: in addition to the existing commissions for fees and appointments, and the third one is the review committee. The bill also provides for the obligation to publish a fee for the director's work in financial reports, which is a newspaper, which will remove many doubts and deprive many shareholders of the misunderstandings that followed the work of stock companies in the past period. Finally, as is known to anyone with the basic knowledge of statistics, the market value which is a weighted average, whether three months or six months, is always biased if the price of actions with a tendency is in any direction, and the bias that prices estimate or underestimates is an open call for speculative actions, which are not a response to market movements but to market deformation and price due to such a weighting system. The logical answers are trade, which aims at setting prices, and other actions that are unnecessary waste of resources and a kind of deformation of the existing market. When it comes to the second law, the law on contractual financial restructuring of companies, this is about recognising the reality of our economy and trying to legally pre-warn the destructive practice that existed and followed businesses in Serbia. This is good, because it will provide a framework that will facilitate trustees to collect their claims through recovery, not through the liquidation of debtors. With this law, Serbia is on the trail of experiences of bankruptcy that have existed for decades in the most developed market economies and that are aimed at healing patients through better corporate governance, but also at providing certain reliefs in the healing process, precisely in order to best protect the interests of both first-row creditors and those who very often fail to settle in the destructive and socially dangerous variants that have been so far, and we can call them quasi-registrations. The financial restructuring shall be carried out in order to restore debt-confidential relations, i.e. due to debt, i.e. claims freely available by the debtor and creditors. The financial restructuring shall be carried out voluntarily, based on the written consent of the creditors and debtors, with the participation of the institutional mediator. The recovery and sustainable continuation of the business of the company shall be carried out, if possible. In addition to the usual and clearly defined criteria of good faith, trustees and debtors' co-operation, trustees' equality, access to data and their confidentiality, the law clearly defines the terms and conditions of financial restructuring. Financial restructuring can be carried out if at least two domestic or foreign banks in the capacity of creditors participate in it. In the course of financial restructuring, debt-restriction is introduced which produces a legal fact on the date of completion of the debt-settlement agreement. The bill introduces a debt settlement agreement and a financial restructuring agreement and defines many issues in the field of publishing law. In short, it is a very constructive law whose application is, I dare say, slightly delayed but which will greatly resolve and facilitate the inevitable and painful process of resolving the relationship between creditors and debtors in financial problems. All in all, these two proposals are on the right track; these are not laws that introduce some fundamental changes, but are laws that bring reasonable and necessary changes, which are the result of the needs of the economy in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54678	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students and teachers of the Walter Oyken High School from Fryburg and the Šapac Economic and Trade School who are visiting the House of the National Assembly in the framework of the project "Partnership at Work", and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. They are present: Gisela Dierking Voelkle, Professor Irina Schindler, Sunay Gun, Yasmin Basham, Simone Trefzer, Melanie Maletz, Nicole Orgona, Partick Schildknecht, Daniela Reinert, Sandra Held, Lisa Munch, Vanessa Hubner, then head of the school from Šapca Momcilo Pavlovic, Prof. Ljiljana Jurisic, Prof. Sonja Mijatović Jokić, Đorđe Pajic, Marija Jovanovic, Bojana Zavadja, Milica Maletić, Katarina Zunic, Marko Smiljanić, Katarina Danojlić, Jana Bogdanović, Kristina Lazarevic, Aleksandra Mićković, Aleksandar Požgaj, Željko Tadić and Aleksandra Djudjevic. Welcome to the National Assembly and welcome to Serbia, with the hope that you will visit again. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54679	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have a set of very important system laws in the area of economy, of which certainly the most important law on economic societies is. My colleagues will later discuss the draft law on the control of precious metal items, and I will talk about the law on companies and the law on contractual financial restructuring of companies. Before I start to discuss the proposed legal solutions, I cannot help but look at the situation in the Serbian economy and society in general since 2008, since this government was established to date, both inadequate and largely delayed economic measures during the global economic crisis that have caused major consequences for the Serbian economy. We will remember all the pre-election promises of the ruling 2008 coalition about 200,000 new jobs, about dynamic economic growth, the growth of gross social product, industrial growth, the increase of wages and the standard of living in general, the reduction of inflation, and many other promises. Three years after the government's constitution in Serbia, we have a completely reverse situation. Instead of 200,000 new jobs, according to IMF data close to 400,000 people were out of work. Compared to 2008, we have a decline in social product, a decline in industrial production by about 12%. We have an excessively high public debt, which amounted to 8.7 billion euros in 2008 and at that time represented about 26% of GDP, to make that debt 12.2 billion euros or 41.5% of GDP at the end of 2010, and after the first three months of 2011, it is 12.7 billion and is close to those limited 45% of GDP. What's tragic is that out of these four billion new responsibilities, very little has been used to develop and invest in some major infrastructure projects and boost the economy. Mostly, these funds are placed in public consumption and to cover the budget deficit. At this point in Serbia, there are around 65,000 companies in the blockade, which employ about 120,000 people. Nearly 300,000 employees in Serbia do not receive salaries. Companies and businesses in Serbia are being shut down constantly; about 1,500 companies have been shut down since the beginning of this year. One of the major problems for the Serbian economy is payment deadlines, i.e. the currency of payments, which, according to the government's estimate, are about 130 days in Serbia, and some others say that the average currency of payments is about 155 - 160 days. Last night, we heard an announcement by the Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister, that certain measures are being prepared when it comes to hiring new workers, meaning some tax reliefs, as well as the adoption of a regulation or some law to limit payment to 60 days. These are certainly good measures, but I'm afraid they are too late, because Serbia's economy has suffered huge consequences due to the untimely adoption of such measures. Also, I would like to say that we have the highest inflation rate in Europe, that we have the lowest salary in Europe, which is about 100 euros less than in 2008. The government's response that these are the consequences of the global economic crisis is certainly not true, because the global economic crisis has affected all the countries, and yet we have burned at the very bottom of that scale in the segments that I was already talking about. I would move, with this payment currency, or the payment deadlines and the State's announcement to limit those payment deadlines, to the law on the contractual restructuring of companies. We, as a parliamentary group, have also submitted an amendment to this bill, which we have proposed that Article 11 of that law be fully restructured, so that the state is included in the whole process, because the state, with its obligations and debts to economic operators, is often causing the need to restructure companies, i.e. the state is thus largely the generator of these problems of business societies and their indifference. We believe that the state should regulate its debts and obligations to companies, and only then create an environment for financial restructuring of companies. Also, this amendment suggested that large debtors get involved more actively in solving these problems. When we look at the law on economic societies, it is clearly seen, and that is also explained, that this is where compliance with European legislation is done, with EU directives, and very little is taken into account in some of our specificities, specificities and our financial and economic interests. Personally, I think that this law is insane, that to detail it is so elaborate, even to unnecessary details, because there are 150 more members than the existing Business Society Act. The existing Business Society Act is quite solid. Of course, there have been some shortcomings in its application, which could have been addressed by amendments and additions to the Law, not by writing a new law that is exaggerated and excessively detailed. Certain provisions are so detailed that they remind more of some kind of rules and not of the law. In many of the provisions of the law itself, there are no penalties provided for, but some guidance and guidance are given, without being able to introduce a solution and sanction one who does not respect certain provisions of the law itself. Corporate governance in Serbia is at a low level, less due to poor provisions of the applicable law and more due to inefficient judicial system, or poor economic dispute resolution; then, due to poor macroeconomic policy, it means, above all, high inflation, dinar course, undeveloped institutional frameworks of business; then, due to banking legislation which is at the expense of the economy and the inadequate Accounting and Audit Act, which is necessary to separate, i.e. to write a new law on audit, external and internal, and to improve the existing Accounting Act. We've submitted a lot of amendments to the proposed text of the law. I will refer only to a few essential parts of that law, of course, in the discussion of the details we will explain our proposals in more detail. At the very beginning of the law, Article 8 defines the legal forms of companies. There are defined partner companies, command companies, limited liability companies and stock companies. We have suggested adding another new position that says that other legal forms of society can be determined in addition to these legal forms, according to counterpart Tabakovic. I think it is necessary to accept such a formula because there are a lot of other legal forms that this law, as a roof law in the area of economy, must mention. Also, in Article 89, which deals with entrepreneurship, there are several illogical things. We have also submitted an amendment to the manager in these entrepreneurial actions because the law provides for them to respond in solidarity with the entrepreneur, i.e. the owner of the store, throughout their assets. We think it's completely illogical. It is clear that the legislator's intention is to protect the entrepreneur from the workers, however, how can we protect that manager if the entrepreneur, or the owner, asks him to do something and later to match his assets? I think it's an entirely illogical solution. Also, there are a lot of unspeakable things in the status change process. That's where we submitted a few amendments that we asked for certain explicit provisions to make the law more complete and clear. Of course, in the discussion of details we will talk more and more about these individual things in the law. I think the adoption of these amendments will certainly improve the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54680	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first impression after several of my colleagues from this assembly who have spoken about this law is that a man is simply creeped when he hears the same government and on the same side comes the promotion of laws on companies, promotion of principles of corporate governance, while boasting the law on contractual financial restructuring of companies. If someone in power convinces me that there are two fundamental things in common between corporate governance and this other government imposing on the Assembly and the economy and the companies, I will accept that this law and all that we are doing today in this assembly is really something that makes sense. I wish Mrs Kalanovic were here, since she just told a fellow MP that she had not heard a single question. Well, they won't hear the question because they're neither capable of providing answers in the government, nor are they ready to deal with problems and really impose solutions on this nation and this country, especially in the economy, businesses and in the economy as a whole. What should we ask the government's representative who gives us answers by ending up in a blockade of 73,000 companies and entrepreneurs in 2010? What can people from such a government give in response? At the beginning of this session, a representative of the parliamentary group spoke of ten companies that owe two billion euros, which are companies that you promote as companies with established corporate governance principles. Here, on this list the last one, Rudnap owes seven billion dinars. A few days ago, the company was promoted as one of the most successful companies with established corporate governance principles. Please tell me now, you knowing from the government or from the majority, where, in which country or dot on the globe, it is possible that with established corporate principles, in developed market economies, someone who is a participant in economic life has these debts? Imagine the distasteful taste in such a business environment promote the principles of corporate governance! What we do today in this congregation really looks like an adventure coming from the same kitchen. We are dealing with laws proposed by the government that will most likely not be able to apply them. You've told it all well, and the law is modern, and European, and directives, and both, we're going to get to it, you just didn't say that we're going to apply it next year, not until next year. I'd like to ask us that one single answer from the absent minister. How will this law and those who turn their heads improve the position of 73,000 blocked entrepreneurs in Serbia, companies? And how is this law going to improve just one thing, say, their liquidity? Not at all. You know that very well, this is a theory, this is fiction, life and practice is something else. I think it would be much smarter for you to stop harmonising legislation with the directives and principles of the developed market and developed economies. We would be grateful to you if you were just part of the economic atmosphere in those countries to repatriate into this country, but you are neither able to do it nor interested in it. The core problem of Serbian companies is poor institutions and the failure of institutions in Serbia. While you are in power, these institutions will not function, and while they do not function, companies will not get an adequate position, companies will not work easier, they will not work better, or the economic environment in this country will not change. You say here that you have called upon certain rules and principles of the Western and modern world, and that's nice. It wasn't hard for us to find these analyses and studies that you called for; you've very skillfully hidden some things that didn't suit you from these studies and analysis. In these studies and the analyses you are calling on, it is said that the fundamental problem of the company's position in Serbia was not in this law at all. It is even said that this law, which has so far been in force, is more in line with the principles of corporate governance than the OECD, is more than the harmonisation of legislation and legislation of countries that have developed market economies and developed and established principles of corporate governance. It's just proof that we are essentially still having problems with institutions, not with legislation. Please answer me how will the new company law improve the position of strikers from the company "Friday September", a company in Surdulica? Just that answer to give me – did the lack of law in Serbia really put these people in the position they are in today? That's not true. The weaknesses of the institutions, the weaknesses of the government, political or political, or who knows what pressures and interests in the government have reflected on the disastrous position of these people down there. This law will not remove it. Your nature can't change the law. The essence will change in the elections when the institutions of the state are no longer in your hands. Imagine the irony, in 2005 and 2006, analyses were made on the situation of corporate governance in Serbia and then many other laws were detected as a major problem, and the Law on bankruptcy and the Law on Charters of Values, and the problems in legislation that regulate accounting and audit, so you as Government changed all that. How much has things changed in these spheres in the last six years? She didn't move anywhere, but literally nowhere. We discussed the Capital Market Act here a few days ago, which will put the Securities Market Act out of effect. You changed legislation, did you set up a capital market? You're not. Today, when you enter these companies, mostly those that owe billions to citizens, which to the state, and you ask their managements, one hand can count the percentages of how many they know international accounting and international standards of financial reporting. When you ask them how, after this law, they will provide capital for their companies and businesses, you know what they say – they don't think to go to the capital market. Do you think you can change these manners by this law? You won't, you won't, you won't, you won't. Our objections to this law will be heard in the discussion of details. We do not think that solutions from this law are in the function of economic efficiency, that economic efficiency through this law will improve, in this sense to improve the situation. I ask you a simple question, Madam Minister, you ask a question, I ask you – what small shareholder in Serbia will exercise his rights through a derivative lawsuit? To tell me, what small shareholder in Serbia, whose right and position you are, is that so, ageing and promoting him through this law, will exercise your rights and interest through a derivative lawsuit? When will this in Serbia, with an independent judiciary, the judiciary of yours, the European, independent, one small shareholder from Vladic's Han sue the company in which he is a shareholder and receive in court one of Miskovic's or Nicovic's directors, manager or agent? When is this gonna happen in this country? They're making fun of everyone. Two billion euros is owed by tens of them, and 100,000 companies registered owe only two billion dinars. It's not that small either. It's official data. In such a state of absurdity you promote corporate principles. You know what corporate principles are? The law we had so far was a problem. That's not true. You're here complaining about the concentration of ownership. Who's to blame for the concentration of ownership? What's basically that problem? 2001 law. You made the Privatisation Act a concentration of ownership. Now you're complaining about the concentration of ownership. The intention of the 2001 legislator may have been the best, but the criminogenic profile of the authorities has come up with that good intention since 2001. After all, why is the problem that the concentration of ownership is present? Here, this is where you call on the European Union. In what European Union country which established the principles of corporate governance, do you not have a dominant concentration of ownership? When you're so modern and committed to corporate governance, why didn't you establish the principles of corporate governance in the Anglo-Saxon area? They exist there. There's dispersion, in Britain and the United States. There's a dispersion of ownership. But you know where there's property dispersion? Where you have the capital market. When a market is developed in general and market principles are established in the country and you have a developed capital market, only then can you create dispersion of ownership. When one has action and has no ability to influence governance, he decides so that the actions are sold well on the market, and not by simmering trying to change things in management or, as they now say, because it is two-home, on the board of directors. Now you're telling us what corporate governance principles are, now you're going to sort it out, now you're going to introduce it in Serbia, and after the adoption and application of this law, it's going to all go a European way and a European way. That's really pointless. In 1991, the Serbian Radical Party asked for market principles and a liberal market economy to be established. That's what we said almost when we talked about the Capital Market Act. In the 1990s, there were ideological barriers. What's the matter with you? What bothered you to change these things and promote them? It's nothing. Your irresponsibility and concern for the state, for state property at the time. Of course, now, as it is, under your authority, it's good that something works at all, works and exists. How can you establish the principles of corporate governance in a country where these debtors exist, in which the bankruptcy mechanism almost does not exist? Is that weakness, lack of law and legitimacy? No, it's an inefficient judiciary and the institutions of this state. It's just like that. You cannot change the principles and manners of those who govern the essential state today. I just mentioned some tycoons. When are those tycoons, the ones they put together in government, the ones you're sitting in, when you're gonna make them apply principles that don't suit them? You won't do anything, of course you won't. Who are you doing this to this other debt restructuring law, etc? That's ridiculous. It's a picture of Serbia. It's an essential picture of Serbia, not reviews and tracts, as one of his colleagues just said, reading. Never in the last 30 years has Serbia been lacking legislation that regulates businesses and businesses. There has always been a problem in the application of these laws and the functioning of institutions. You can't change that with a new law. What does the minister say just now? Electronic communication will be established. Well, the application of a member of the law promoting electronic communication in this is delayed for 2014. Do you know why? Because these companies and entrepreneurs or non-profit companies in Serbia ended in 2010 with only 1,000 electronic licences free of charge issued by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. You've passed all the laws on e-commerce, signature, etc. Where are we now? We're not anywhere. So what we're doing today is just another one, I repeat, an adventure from the kitchen that you're part of, political cuisine. There came laws that entered the Assembly, sowed political conflicts, misunderstandings or were never applied, such as the Law on Regional Development, such as the Law on Chambers of Commerce, etc. You don't have to do anything, Madam Minister, to answer us today. You've given your answers to Serbia in the last ten years. What Serbia needs is to no longer ask you about anything, because you are obviously unable to answer any question, or to solve Serbia essentially any problem. Serbia needs a new policy, a policy that will break with what has been promoted and established for the past ten years, which will not spin us or, as some say, muzzle. I sincerely hope that after the next elections, the SRS will be able to establish these new principles and new policy in Serbia and offer life- and essential offers to citizens, unlike those of you who sell European fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54682	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word to exercise their rights? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted: the LDP Parliamentary Group, the NS Parliamentary Group, the SPS-JS Group, the DSS Parliamentary Group, the ZES Group and the SRS Parliamentary Group. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given by MPs, in order and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 4 of the agenda. The first to be reported is MP Bojan Djuric, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54683	Dear Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I expected that before we moved to this part of the session we would get at least some kind of address from the Deputy Prime Minister or at least some of the answers to the questions raised here. If there were no clear questions coming in the first part of the LDP session, there were issues from some other parliamentary groups, through the address of authorised representatives. However, the Deputy Prime Minister did not spend one part of the session in the O.R., and I did not notice that her associates were writing down questions, perhaps they were remembered and transferred by ministers. Anyway, some of these questions we need to repeat and try to be specific. I think the issue of "Banatski Dvor" is a huge difference between ownership structure and management rights, i.e. the possibility of making business decisions that are not only about this economic society, but for the entire energy system and the entire strategic sectors of the economy and life in Serbia, such as gas supply, is not responsible and deserves an answer. Such behaviour in economic life and political life is precisely creating this, as the law explains, socio-political constraints for the full development of market relations, for the full functioning of this law, which is a serious and quality company law, which could pass a test not only of the EU but also of the OECD countries' legislation. But in a system like this, it looks like some kind of deviation that everyone in advance knows won't work in real life, or it'll work with those 350-400 companies with different forms of organization that normally function in Serbia today, more or less, on all those principles that qualify one firm to compete in a normal and successful way on the market. These are, more or less, these stock companies that are listed in the reasoning of the law; I don't mean those who came into such status through the process of forced privatisation. There is a key problem, with no social conditions, as former BIA director once expressed himself when he spoke of the inability to arrest Hague indictees. A similar matrix of economic life poisoning, as is the case with the poisoning of the legal system, is available in this area. In that sense, it is true that the problem which is highlighted in the reasoning of the law, that here the market, and not all other principles related to the status part of the company's law and its operational part, or the functioning of the market and market bases, cannot function because they appear to be legally binding or legally imposing which, on the one hand, sends the state simultaneously to the other eye, winking these same market participants, sending a message that they do not have to act in everything in accordance with that law or with the principles of normal market business, because neither the State itself is willing to do so. We have before us that other law on the restructuring of economic operators, which brings a whole series of frightening data. The fact that almost one-fifth of loans in Serbia are not serviced in a orderly manner covers the economy in one general way, without analysis, without data on how much the share of public enterprises or companies that are dominant in state property are in the formation and increase of these debts, unpaid debts or unsettled serviced credit obligations. I think that this is a big problem and that there can be answers to the question of why at the end of 2010, there were more than 73,000 economic operators meeting the requirements for the blocking of the account, with this additional problem highlighted by colleagues from the SRS, which concerns a very selective or practically complete non-application of the provisions of the bankruptcy procedure. It's hard to build a market system in a country where it can't be destroyed, where there's always a awareness that the state will jump in, that the state will take credit and that in some way it will organize and send a message that it's important that we endure another six months or a year with a bad loan, and then somehow we'll stand on a green branch. With an economic growth of 1.8 or 2% a year, it is simply not possible, with this rate of borrowing and with this ineffectiveness in economic life. There is information that there are 700 public enterprises in Serbia. We talk about it all the time and we never know the exact number. To tell you the truth, it's impossible for me to think it's a round number; the way it's mentioned in this explanation is more about that even the state doesn't have the exact details of how many public enterprises there are. Not to mention these 359, 360 social enterprises that are poison in Serbia's economic system. These are the companies the government decided 15 days ago to allocate huge money to connect workers' internships in them, an internship that hasn't been paid in months or seven or eight years. These are not the companies that, in the meantime, took over this giant company, holding all the activities, which is called "Srbigas". That is why all those principles that are in a great or decent way governed by this law will not work. You have a law that will apply to 300 - 350 companies, where there are 50 members of the law on the position of directors, different types of directors, different powers, conditions that must be met, the running process. You will have 350 such companies that respect this law and you will have 700 public companies in which there is no rule on the appointment of directors and none of the conditions, except one sentence, I suppose, in coalition contracts that you all have and that determine the quota by which the directors of these companies will be appointed, which are enterprises that block the economy, which have accumulated five billion debts, according to which no one has the ambition to ask for the payment of these claims anymore, not because it is afraid of the state, because we do not live, fortunately, more in such fear, than because they know that there is no real way to collect this claim. In the restructuring law, you have information that the number of days has increased significantly in the past year, i.e. the average period in which debt claims are charged, when it comes to large private-owned companies. There is no such information when it comes to state or public enterprises. Finally, another problem that needs to be talked about, and we will talk more about it in the discussion of details, is the question of what are minority shareholders with us. They're the unfavorable shareholders and the unfavourable owners here; you keep in the situation that they're people who can't reconcile these two roles: interests they have as workers in these more failed businesses and expectations or ambitions they'd have to have as owners. I will never forget some television conversation with people, it seems to me that it was the famous privatisation of "The Book of Milos", when the company's worker, who received a serious cash amount, tells me she decided to invest her money and says she bought a salary on Zlatibor to build there. Not to get into the fact that it's a construction without permission, that we're not coming back to the field of the Planning and Construction Act, because you said you wouldn't talk about it and that it had nothing to do with your portfolio. Then the journalist asked – and what did you advise your colleagues after you first decided? She says she advised colleagues to buy land next to her, to build the same facilities and to deal with the same economic activity. How can I tell you, it's not a rational economic choice. No one who, by their own free will, with the ambition to do business seriously, enters the process will think that way. That's why it's important what we talked about today, that this debate can't come down to one afternoon and a half afternoons in which it... There are in the law these concepts of right and obligation, in that other law. You are here today somehow acting as if your rights and obligations rest in these few hours until we move on to the next item of the agenda, or until we start laughing at the citizens of Serbia, trying to explain to them that more important changes to the Law on the selection of MPs than the law on economic societies, which is quite strangely translated into English, whose title is quite strangely translated in that explanation of compliance with European standards. The term "companion", especially in Anglo-Saxon countries, means something other than all other forms of economic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54684	The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic. And MP Bojan Djuric used nine minutes and twenty seconds of time for the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, today we have two very important laws on the agenda, a proposal for a law on business societies and a bill on the contractual financial restructuring of companies; of course, this third law, which we will discuss more when we talk about amendments, given the time foreseen for the New Serbia Parliamentary Group. On average, every five or six years, we pass a new company law. A legitimate question arises, since it is a roof or system law, what really is our problem? Is the reason so dynamic social and, above all, the economic transition that Serbia has been going through for a decade and the light at the end of the tunnel is not seeing? Or is it simply a matter of the professional ability of those who write such laws to counter the inevitable changes that arise in our economic environment and to meet them with legal solutions in time? The legislator himself, justifying the need to pass a new law, finds that, during the application of the applicable company law, a number of problems have arisen in practice and, worse still, issues that represent a legal void. We will all agree on the fact that neither entrepreneurs, nor partner, commandic, actional, nor limited-responsibility societies represent new, revolutionary legal categories whose existence could not be adequately regulated by the existing law in the long run. This is how we create an ambience of legal uncertainty that continues to repel foreign investors who logically think about how to plan anything in the long term in a country where system laws change every five years and sometimes shorter. What about the lower hierarchical system's legal regulation when we have problems like this? For example, with the famous Committee on Charters of Values, which is very common, which is recognised here by the legislator himself, it has made legal standards according to its own findings and thus created an ambience of absolute uncertainty in business, especially open companies. So, related to what I said earlier, many solutions in this law mean the previous adoption of other legal proposals, and so we find ourselves in a kind of challenge. Why was the legislator so sure that, for example, the Capital Market Act, which was still in the procedure until five days ago, would be adopted, so in many places he assumed the same application of the provisions of the law? There are many examples and members that we will name. New Serbia has submitted a lot of amendments; we really expect that some amendments, if accepted by the proposer, will be greatly corrected. Only in this debate will I in principle indicate one situation. In Article 249(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The draft law states that the Central Register is required to issue a certificate of actions whose shareholder is the legal owner, with all information on those actions on which the institution keeps records, on the subsequent working day following the date of submission. Furthermore, in the view of the 3rd member, it is said that the issue of evidence of ownership of shares is subject to the rules governing the capital market. Who once became a little interested in this matter knows that the Central Register is, in its essence, defined as an exclusive institution that communicates exclusively with third parties, shareholders, by means of its members under the rule of brokerage and drug dealers. Under current business rules, a shareholder may, within two working days of the final request to make an insight into the shareholder's book and in the presence of a representative of his corporate agent. So, he has to hire a broker before and immediately pay for that service, without the right to copy, let alone the request from the Central Register of Property Certificates. What he can get on the paper list is a copy of his charter account from a stockbrokering company whose client he is. Therefore, this provision of Article 249(2) is currently inapplicable, and, frankly, it is difficult to imagine a situation in which tomorrow, regardless of the solution in the new regulations in this area, the Central Register will change its rules of business in the way it is foreseen here, especially if the number of newly-roasted shareholders in Serbia is taken into account. Of course, there's going to be an appeal. 189, 192, 331 and 337, but as I said, we'll discuss them more when we discuss the amendments. As regards the proposal for a law on companies in this introductory part, in principle, given the fact that it is a system law, and thus one of the most important legislative proposals, as I said, the NS Parliamentary Group has tabled a number of amendments, we expect you as Government to consider them and to consider certain amendments that are meaningful and to accept them. The draft law on contractual financial restructuring of companies is another law proposed by a huge delay in terms of opportunities and the harsh environment that has become our everyday life. In this way, indirect recognition is made of the fact that we cannot escape, and before which current power has been lurking for years, which is that our economy is in a state of collapse. In addition to the huge number of operators already in bankruptcy or liquidation, an even greater number is practically on the threshold of bankruptcy, which automatically pulls a new wave of unemployment and everything it carries with it. With a neoliberal economic concept like I don't suppose there is anywhere on the globe of the Earth, according to my colleague Stevanović, and I, too, with a macroeconomic policy that depends on the daily interest of large capital, let's look at what happens to our national currency course and what professional explanations we can hear from competent institutions, with interest policy so-called. domestic banks, no wonder the little healthy economic tissue is practically isolated and now the devil has practically come for himself. The circle slowly closes both banks and creditors come into a situation where debtors, like stranglers, are dragging them under the water. It is difficult that the solution proposed by this law will have some more important effects unless fundamental changes are made in the macroeconomic environment, because if things continue to take place in the same way, the debtors who are in the rotation of interest and other obligations will hardly be helped. The period of retirement of debts provided for by this law is merely putting on life support appliances, but with a limited duration; its course the same sad end for the vast majority is inevitable. It is proposed, as one of the legitimate ways in which the contractual redefining of debt-confidential relations, the conversion of capital claims and the settlement through different security means, is most often carried out by mortgages. It will be a very interesting situation when banks become the owners of most of the companies and real estate in Serbia, and it is inevitable to happen with such a policy. The principle of similarity, the principle of volunteering, the principle of sustainability of the business of debtors, the principle of good faith (bona fide), the principle of cooperation and the coordination of trustees, the principle of trustee equality, the principle of access to data, etc.; all in all, this legislative proposal represents a list of good wishes and good business principles, but I am afraid that this is all. Too severe a debt-confidential relationship in Serbia to make a fundamental change on the basis of volunteering. Those would be basic remarks when it comes to these two laws. If we add the harsh reality of not only entrepreneurs, but also natural persons (although the law does not apply to them, but indirectly that) which are in enormous debt, and then problems with all this I've talked about, the country is indeed in a very dangerous situation. We might think that the legislator is well-intentioned when he suggests something like this in an ambience in which, for example, in April, the month marked the situation that 15% of the electricity has accumulated, that oil derivatives are one of the most expensive in the environment, that the problem of the course is practically a fatal outcome for exporters, which you will see very quickly, is slowly going around the raspberries harvesting situation and you will see that there are still problems because of this course. The only thing to do is to order those who import, but I guess the main goal of a macroeconomic policy is to export it from the country, which allows a large number of jobs, etc. All of this, given the 73,000 blocked companies, because of their huge unemployment, will cause real problems. We are witnessing these days that it is said in the media that for the newly employed people of the state something will make it easier for the state to contribute, or tax. I really don't see why everyone else isn't allowed, like in other countries, to make these taxes smaller, because companies need help now. If they're imposed through property tax, electricity, oil derivatives... People are in huge loans, they can't make it back half the war, because every day the state takes something new from them; they're mortgages and they're all failing together, I'm afraid they won't be in a position to accept any new employee. First, we need to start with those who are employed, so there's room for new employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54686	The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54687	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear Minister Kalanovic, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will once again say at the very beginning that the SPS-JS Group will support the law on companies, because we believe this proposal brings better solutions and simplifies practice. It is true that today's Business Society Act, which came into force in 2005, has taken one step forward in regulating companies in Serbia, but the practice in the period following the adoption of this legislative proposal has shown that there are certain problems in applying certain provisions, that there are certain ambiguities in application, that there are certain legal gaps. Of course, there is, on the other hand, the need to bring legislation into line with European Union legislation, as amended following the entry into force of the Business Society Act, and this need is characteristic when it comes to transition countries. What is also important is the need to address certain contradictions between the Company Act and the Securities Market Act, i.e. to bring the Business Society Act in line with the new Capital Market Act. The reasons that I have stated, with all the other reasons that are very precise and taxing in the light of this legislative proposal, clearly speak not of the necessity of amending and supplementing the existing law, bearing in mind, above all, what is defined by this law, the importance of the area that is defined, the extent of the inevitable changes, but of the need for the adoption of a new law that will normably introduce legal certainty and clarity of the economic environment and which will prevent, as I would say, the introduction of harmful uncertainty into business. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the fact that, as far as we could hear from this legislative proposal, a high-quality public debate (we could hear in the opening presentation of the minister) was held, which included representatives of international institutions involved in the reform of economic legislation. This is something that should be a practice when it comes to fundamentally important legal proposals, or when it comes to system laws. Of course, by supporting this legislative proposal, we would first and foremost like to support the goal which is to achieve the adoption of this legislative proposal, which is a clear allocation and determination of the way in which ownership rights are implemented and protected in the relations that the company establishes and, of course, that basic economic objective, which has also been discussed, which is to reduce the transaction costs incurred in the exchange and implementation and protection of payment rights. As important specific objectives, the realisation of which will depend, essentially, on this basic economic objective that the draft should achieve, are also cited: a more consistent distinction between society with limited liability and companies, increased responsibility of directors, but also members of shareholders, the introduction of a home and two-home governance system, as well as a more detailed regulation of trustees' protection. When it comes to a limited liability society, key newspapers are very precisely defined and are considered to exclude the number of members that society can have; the company's book of members has been abolished, i.e. a record has been introduced; the member's property is obtained by enrolment in the register. The capital is expressed in dinars and amounts to 50,000 dinars. The subscribed capital shall be paid after the registration of the company. An additional payment system has been developed. Data is the possibility of a choice between a home and a two-home management system and the possibility of the existence of a number of directors who can be both legal persons and non-existent, a colleague named Radenkovic, the board of directors, spoke of it. The management function is separate from the control. There is a distinction between the exclusion of members by a decision of the Assembly and by a court procedure; provisions on the withdrawal of members have been developed. As far as the company is concerned, two results are one fundamentally new approach: the first, division of closed and open stock companies is too high, and second, the number of shareholders is not important in determining whether the company can or must be public. What is also important and what should be said when it comes to stock companies, therefore, companies will have to have statutes, which has not been an obligation so far. Directors have so far been responding to their assets if they are proven to have done damage, but additional and precise provisions have now been introduced regarding their responsibility. It is specified how the violation of those duties is sanctioned. The jurisdiction of the courts is more detailed. We believe that this will lead to a better, or more serious application in practice after the adoption of this legislative proposal. We also want to believe that the new legal solution will remove the observed problems in practice when it comes to protecting trustees, minority shareholders, and that was also the case. The bill was defined as freedom of choice for management of the company, but unlike the solutions we have today, the way of choice and the competence of the authorities in both management systems are consistently arranged, which is also a practice when it comes to EU countries. This legislative proposal solved a legal gap which was a serious problem, and as regards how certain groups of persons can exercise their rights if companies are removed from the register, i.e. no bankruptcy and no liquidation procedure has been implemented, which we also find extremely important. When it comes to liquidation, I want to say that at the very end when I'm already talking about this legislative proposal, forced liquidation is also envisaged, which I would also say is a filled legal gap of the applicable law, which is otherwise envisioned by liquidation as a necessary measure, depending on the decision of society, which, of course, meant the inability to implement it. So, once again, at the very end, when it comes to this legislative proposal, the SPS - JS Parliamentary Club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. I would also like to say that we will also support the draft law on the contractual restructuring of companies, because we support what is intended to be achieved, which is the timely recognition and resolution of the financial difficulties of businesses and the creation of conditions for continuing their business. Therefore, it is essential to create an institutional framework for more efficient business negotiations with banks on the restructuring of their debts. On the other hand, this law should create a quality legal framework for non-judicial contractual restructuring of corporate debt to banks and other creditors. As has already been said, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce will play a role in this process. The Chamber of Commerce should link debtors and creditors and intervene in the negotiation process, to define debt-confidential relations and to conclude a successful agreement. When it comes to the Chamber of Commerce itself, of course it is relevant that the relevant capacity is, I mean, the administrative capacity available to the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, of course it is important to have the experience that the chamber has in the arbitration process; on the other hand, members of the Chamber of Commerce are both economic operators and businesses and are banks, which should certainly ensure a easier link between debtors and creditors in order to initiate and implement the procedure, and in this context we believe that the existence of a mediator is extremely important. So what is important and necessary for starting the process itself (and, among other things, there were words)? That there are at least two banks that will participate in the negotiations, i.e. to recognise that the recovery of the company is sustainable over a long period of time and that restructuring enables them to take advantage of the claim. Of course, negotiations should be conducted with the intervention of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which also brings a special act to define the whole procedure closer. Of course, we want to believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal is one huge step forward towards resolving the general liquidity of the economy, which, with a huge number of blocked accounts, is indeed a serious business problem today in Serbia. For this very reason, the SPS - JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54688	Ten minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Milan Lapcevic, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54689	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, as Mr Milicevic said, and I would really like to believe that this legal solution will try to solve the problem of the huge indifference of the economy, but I fear that this is more marketing than can truly be the solution to the growing indifference of the economy, as the biggest problem of the Serbian economy today. In explaining the bill, the minister said the reasons for the adoption of the laws are protection of creditors, the growing liquidity of the economy and the prevention of bankruptcy for those companies that can recover. It would really be very good to hear the explanation, if possible, in which way the law will solve the problem of the indifference of the Serbian economy. One of my predecessors reported that around 70,000 companies have been blocked in Serbia today, threatened with bankruptcy, and that mutual claims by these companies amount to about 300 billion dinars. We heard a while ago that on a round table there was a representative of the ruling coalition, otherwise the director of "Srbigas", said that the state is the initiator of these mutual debts that are cyclical and that the state should raise new loans, amounting to six hundred-seven million euros, in order to break that debt chain, because when the state owes entrepreneurs who have subcontractors for certain jobs, then you have one cycle of huge indifference of enterprises that threatens to sink completely and that another 200,000 people will be out of work, which would be a disastrous scenario for Serbia, given that in these three years there are 400,000 people out of work, although we have received false promises from the ruling coalition that there will be new jobs, a new 200,000 jobs. Unfortunately, none of the new jobs came true, even those who worked lost their jobs. What, in fact, is the commitment of the state and what is its role in economic development? Its role is to create an ambience for the development of the economy and, with as little tax as possible and in the more predictable business environment, to create the possibility that businesses can operate, to know what their laws will be, to have taxes and burdens that the state prescribes not excessively, so that their business activities can finance and to pay from what they do neatly their obligations, to pay workers, taxes to the state, and to keep those economic operators or their owners a certain profit in order to make it all meaningful. What is the state of Serbia's economy today? Of some tens of thousands of blocked companies in 2008, which are the reality of the transition economy, we have come, after three years and after the global economic crisis, to a situation where 70,000 economic operators are blocked and threatened to shut down. On the other hand, those who are not blocked, who are doing something, are mostly under huge loans, mortgages on assets to banks, and without real grounds and real opportunities for these loans to be returned, or financed from production, because these productions are relatively low in Serbia. And, if there is, it is very non-profitable in most cases and does not even allow for free reproduction, so that companies that once took loans because of huge interest and there is no profit they have to take a reprogramme of these debts, that they fall into much larger debts and in one cyclic chain they can only expect to go into bankruptcy or collapse. And there is one of the creators or engines of a negative country ambience because, instead of encouraging its economy to lower taxes, the lower taxes, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the more favourable the rates that would be achieved on the market by banks so that companies could take credits to finance production and be competitive with a particular product on the market, they sold their state records at high prices. So, instead of investing money in the economy, it was much cheaper for the banks to place 14% of the state records towards the state, buy state records and raise interest on the economy. Why would they give lower interest to businesses when these debts are harder to charge than the state; it is easier to place funds towards the state. So, practically, the state forms an interest rate to the economy. Of course, no company can have 16-17% or 20% interest in commercial banks, finance production and be competitive on the market. If this adds to the fact that at the beginning of 2009, the unilateral application of the SAA and the full liberalisation of Serbia's market in economy is most threatened by the simple fact that there is no possibility of fighting the EU's strong economy, which is supported by their countries, it is clear that the state, the current government leading the country, is the main initiator of bad conditions in economies that can be measured by a general disaster. If that were the case, the revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which are less than a billion euros each year than what the state plans to spend, because of the simple fact that there is not enough economic activity that there can be so much profit in the country that all government taxes, which, by the way, are much bigger than they could be. Three hundredm euros a year, Serbia loses directly due to market liberalisation, i.e. one-sided implementation of the SAA, and in return for European funds, it gets about a hundredm euros in size. So, obvious imbalance. Not to mention agriculture, or other branches that are much more vulnerable than in some EU countries; in these countries, businesses and businesses are much more financially supported than the outbreak of the crisis. So you remember how much developed European Union countries, especially Germany, France, England, pump money into the economy to achieve some new development, to prevent the total collapse of the system. So, I think that this law, no matter how correct the solutions are, is late; I'm afraid very little will be able to help this state of affairs, which is obviously on exhale and, above all, because of this state's relationship, suffers and has enormous damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54690	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is nine minutes. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54691	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the economy, the economy, the structure of the economic sector, we usually use one flossule, that the state should create a favourable environment for economic operators, for foreign investment, for domestic investors. In my opinion, the role of the state should be about to wear out – in creating the ambience. It is this law, namely the proposal for this legislative project, the law on companies, that is one of the very important legal mechanisms for the Republic of Serbia to create an environment for a competitive and compatible economy in our society. I'll remind you that the 2005 Business Society Act was one essential, not to say revolutionary, shift compared to the 1989 Company Act, as I recall. In practice, therefore, the 2005 Business Society Act has shown certain shortcomings, certain irregularities in certain institutes, as regards the regulation of members' relations in relation to the forms of organisation of companies, whether they are commanditative societies, partner societies, limited liability societies and action societies... The mechanism of functioning, let me say, internally and externally, economic operators with the outside world. So, I think this law solves all these problems that we have heard today in the presentation of the minister, or representatives of the promoter and in the debate that was being held today. In my opinion, the law on companies that are ahead of us is a law that doesn't need much to be added or taken away. Also, lately I've had contacts with people from the Chamber of Commerce, people who have communication with the Agency for Business Registers, people from the judiciary, legal and legal professions – we have all the credit for this law from the professional public. I'm going to do a little dyspression. As we have seen from the reasons of Minister Ciric, various focus groups and competent and relevant institutions have been consulted when drawing up draft laws; it has gone from one comprehensive analysis before the draft was made, and then the proposal that has been submitted to us to the MPs. Therefore, an analysis of the effects of the existing Business Society Act has been carried out. This is notorious, but it is good that we have been provided with one statistic that says that in the structure of companies a dominant role has a form of organization called – a society with limited responsibility. The trend since 2005, i.e. in 2006, when practically this law began to be implemented, is the trend in the growth of companies with limited responsibility in relation to other forms of organisation, i.e. other forms of a company of a person, i.e. a company of capital. It is an interesting fact, and this is the specificity of our economy, that more than a quarter of Serbia's companies make up companies where there were no employees (the company was registered, registered, but there were no employees) and just over half of the companies employed between one and five workers. Pretty grey statistics further suggest that micro-economic societies, which are employed by up to ten workers, account for nearly 87% of all companies. They employed 15% of the total number of workers. Another key problem, when we talk about an analysis of the effects of the existing Business Society Act, not on the proposal for this law but on existing legislation, is a marked concentration of ownership. We heard that in today's debate and that's one of the objectives of this law, that this issue be resolved structurally and essentially. When it comes to stock companies, a large number of companies have a small number of shareholders. It is also a trend that does not exist in countries in the environment, in these transition countries that have completed transition reforms, especially in countries of old democracy, or liberal capitalism on the European and American continent. Official statistics say 30% of stock companies have fewer than fifty shareholders, and slightly less than 15% of stock companies have fewer than a hundred shareholders. These two data already speak enough, in itself, that the company's ownership structure is highly concentrated, so the cumulative participation of companies in which the majority owner has over two-thirds of the participation in actions is 57%. I'll remind you that in 74% of companies there's a owner who owns over 50% of the property. This structure of stock companies is also one of the structural problems of our economy. I would like to remind you that (this statistics I spoke about earlier) is the largest participation of the forms of society organisation as a limited liability society, among other things, and the fact that the largest number of action societies in our society was created in the privatisation process. Since I am a lawyer, I am familiar with one or two companies that are not formed from privatisation but formed as stock companies. I'm saying, we don't have there, like other market economies, tradition, a hundred years old or two years old, where one evolution process, one systemic development process led to a solution, but after leaving the country's socialist model and economy, we had to regulate these things by law, while in other countries it was a matter of one system development process. It should be said that in corporate governance, and in general corporate law, the board of directors is an entity, i.e. the core government in any form – manages the company, chooses and replaces management. While two or one committee is concerned, a fundamentally applied second solution, where it was left to the companies for freedom of choice. The question of the congregation of society, or its jurisdiction, is also more widely than usual. In addition to the usual, the selection of the board of directors, the change of the founding act, the decisions on emissions of actions, there are also: the selection of auditors, the adoption of a new financial report, the adoption of all financial reports, the earnings of directors, board members etc. It should be pointed out that the management incentives have been built in through the ability to determine the manager's earnings, that this issue has been deregulated, i.e. the company may introduce profits from the management of the performance of the society, while management is required by the provisions on fiduciaryness to the loyal treatment in the interests of the society. There is one constant and one of our problems, which is that in most of our business entities, in most societies, regardless of the form of organization, mainly does not understand what each of our surveillance and audit procedures is doing. This statistics once again confirms what I say – that, for example, according to research by the international financial corporation, the supervision of the implementation of financial and business plans by the company in a third of cases is carried out by the board of directors, in 23% of external auditors, and in 12% of cases by the Supervisory Board. These are some of the segments when it comes to the analysis of the effects of the law and this period of six-seven years of the existence of the 2005 Business Society Act. We, as a society, as a parliament, also the executive authority, or government, have taken a lot of significant steps to improve the process of setting up and registering societies, important data being kept in the register. We've done an extremely good job setting up an Agency for Business Registers. We can only remind ourselves of the situation where the registration of companies was in the jurisdiction of commercial or commercial courts and how long it took, how many contradictory and different case-laws were there, so that the establishment of the Agency for Commercial Registers, as well as its efficiency and urgency, and in the absence of a number of cases and interpretation of the application of certain norms of the Business Society Act and other relevant laws, is very significant. In my view, it should also be pointed out that problems need to be identified, most practically, those that exist in practice, according to two areas that the law regulates, which are: exchange, implementation and protection of ownership rights in legal traffic between legal and natural persons and representation of the interests of different groups, primarily owners, within companies, and another area is the relationship between principles and agents, i.e. distribution of roles, responsibilities and rights within a company, i.e. So-called corporate governance. While welcoming this once again and expressing satisfaction over such a good bill, I would like to say that, I am convinced, we will do the following: we will bring this very important area into line with European legislation; we will bring this law into line with other laws that are complementary, first of all to the Capital Market Act; we will solve the problems identified in the application of applicable laws (some of the problems I have spoken to, and so will my colleagues); we will more specifically and more clearly settle certain issues and institutes such as the founding act, founding roles, the termination of the company, the merger of companies, the relationship of the commanders, the complementar, the relationship of the partners in the social society with limited responsibility, the protection of minority shareholders in the action society etc. Someone just said something about the arrangement of a home and two-home management system, which is also important. So the disposition is on entrepreneurs, members of society, so there's no imperative norm in the law. Disposition shall be left whether participants in a business life will be defined as a home or a two-home management system. It is important to say that the law has mechanisms to protect trustees' rights. What's a newspaper, it's an electronic means of communication. We have a unique legal framework for entrepreneurs who are in the structure of the economy and are nominally the most numerous. We have a special regulation and a consistent distinction between domestic and foreign companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that this law will contribute to a healthier economic environment, that we will contribute to the competitiveness of the Serbian economy in the period ahead and which is very important for our European integration. We will make it easier for businesses when it comes to everything that has been the brakes in their business so far, at least in that part concerning the status of companies, the registration of companies, changes in the legal form of companies, etc. For all this, in this form of principle debate, I want to say that, along with my colleagues, I will vote for this law. In the discussion of details, we will consider all amendments, although I repeat, this is a law which, in my opinion, needs neither to be added nor taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54692	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54693	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to Minister Ziric; he has mostly repeated what he writes in the light of this bill. We see here that it insists that this bill is in line with EU legislation, it is talked about some six or seven years of application of the previous law, then it is said again that laws must be amended during the transition, etc. We ask the question – how long will this transition take, is it thirty years, is it twenty, is it fifty and when it will end? It's a bit of a non-serious formulation. Secondly, he was talking about minority shareholders' rights. In that sense, I don't see why their rights and the rights of all shareholders have not been better protected in Article. 81nd and 82nd, where their information, you'll admit, is not exactly at the highest level, i.e. their right to learn some facts that are not the addresses of shareholders, directors or leading parts of a company or other societies, but business and something they are interested in, because they receive dividends from these actions. These are some remarks regarding his exposure. Our basic objection concerns whether a new law had to be passed at all, whether there was room to be sufficient only changes. Minister in the light of the law of justice, this big deal (it is about a law that has 600 members) by the need for this law to be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union, i.e. With Aki communicator. I responsibly argue that Aki communitre in this area, in the area of corporate law, is quite insufficient, that national countries in the EU have much better and more detailed legislation and that Aki is a communitre in this area at the level of tax and tax law, which is, you will admit, minimal regulation. In order to avoid this truth, we come up with some kind of table at the end of the reasoning of this law; it is, I must admit, very detailedly done. We have a statement that the bill is in line with Directives 68, 36, 101, but when we look at it, we see that these are actually directives that complement those old directives that were passed before the bill, even from 1977 and 1982, if I am not mistaken, so it is one, in a legal sense, the strangest thing to say. On the other hand, if this bill is already in line and it is passed precisely because of the Aki communiqué, how can it be recognised in this table that some provisions, not just of any importance, on the supervisory board, on electronic regulation, are not in line with these new European Union directives? So this completely ruins the justification that the law was passed in order to comply with the EU. It is also clear that some provisions relating to EU members cannot be applied. But from the legal point of view, I would say the most important question about this law, which is: why is it that the directives are mandatory for the legal system of the Republic of Serbia when that is not true? You know what the EU Constitution (which has not adopted but 90 percent has been transposed into the Lisbon Treaty) means a directive – a framework law in an area where European legislation is not dominant in relation to national legislation. So it's kind of... I'm not saying you're doing this, but it's kind of a public deception, because the directive is not mandatory for either EU members, let alone a country that tries at all costs, at the cost of destroying social peace, destroying its businesses, entering the EU and being a second-rate member there, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and all other countries. After all, it shows you enough the position of the Hungarian prime minister, who, although the country holds the presidency of the EU, is doing everything contrary to what the European Central Bank, the European Commission and so on say. Western investors from Germany who are dominant in Hungary. This is where we come to the crucial part of this law. Why is it brought in if it does not comply with the EU, why is it adopted if the directive is not mandatory? We have an answer on the basis of the law. These were obviously consultants from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it says in an explanation, and they were consultants from Germany. I'm asking you, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, were your German consultants paid? Who paid for them? Was it us or was it a donation? I will not claim either, that it is true, but experience mainly says that these donations or loans that our citizens are paying off and will be used in the coming years to hire consultants from the European Union countries. I've seen on your team some people who are experts, doctors of legal science, who sat there, and I don't see why they wouldn't take this job completely. On the other hand, I see no reason to hire foreign experts, who are obviously not fully familiar with regulation in this area. I'm going to give another example that shows exactly that. There is only one member in the law – if I am not mistaken, it is Article 18 – which deals with the establishment of a breach of a legal person. You know that this is a new kind of legal institution and legal treatment for us, both for our legislation and for our judiciary. In the west there is a long tradition of this regulation, first of all there is that famous verdict from the end of the eighteenth century, Solomon versus Solomon, but we will not deal with these details and we will not, as some other MPs, read prepared speeches, but we will be concrete. What's concrete here? There is, apparently, a copy of the Slovenian law in that area, and on the other hand, a formulation is drawn that fully shows the essence of that legal definition, which is a fraud. So what is a fraud, to be specific – when a company is created whose members are exclusively part of a family. I can give you a thousand examples, I can tell you about the Karics, I can tell you about the Miskovics, but we're not going to do this right now. Let them deal with this party financed by Karic etc. It's a different topic. Since the law was not passed because of compliance with European directives, since it is insufficient and there is only one of the six hundred members of the law that deals with this very serious issue of breaking the legal person, it has been completely missed. I'm saying that if you've already had a good intention, you could pass a law or amendments to the laws that would be adapted to our practice. Look, the most authoritative book in this area is a book written by the Dean of Law School, which is called "Companian Law". He argues, in 2007, it was announced that in this area our case-law was undeveloped, that the legislator was hesitant. So you should have adapted this particular Article 18, or expanded it, to be at least twice as big, twice as many views, in order, however, given that here the stock market is minimal and that there are some circumstances that a colleague of Stevanovic talked about, to our legislation, to our judiciary and to the reality that exists here. These phrases about the European Union, about the directives remind me of that phrase and that hysteria about the harmonisation of excise duties. As reportedly, there is a directive which is mandatory, however, is not true. The only thing that is mandatory, and that is for the Member States, are the regulations. This is a completely different concept from the EU directive. So I urge you to withdraw this law or bring it into line with the Serbian situation, with our economy and with the true state of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54694	Nine minutes and ten seconds. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word. You have five minutes in the remaining time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on companies is a serious and acceptable law for LDP, as well as a draft law on contractual financial restructuring of companies. In its essence, these are modern laws, laws that are in line with EU standards. However, these laws are only a tool for implementing economic policy, i.e. by using perhaps a mathematical dictionary, they are necessary but not sufficient conditions for companies to function normally here in Serbia. In order for these companies to normally operate, it is necessary to change the environment in which they operate. The figures published by the European Commission describing the state of the economy in the Balkans show that Serbia is at the very bottom of not only Europe, but also the region. Our inflation is twenty times higher than inflation in Montenegro, ten times higher than inflation in Croatia, three times more pronounced than inflation in Albania. The unemployment rate is twice as high as in Croatia and Montenegro. Investments in Serbia were at the level of investments in Montenegro last year, although we are fifteen times the size of Montenegro. What we are lagging behind in the region is not the result of the evil fate of our country, unfortunately, it is the result of the political decisions that have been made not only in the course of this government's duration but also in the last twenty years. That is why we from the Liberal Democratic Party have proposed an economic programme called "New Economy, a New Policy", because if we want a better economy, we need to work more, if we work more, we need to know who we are going to sell our products to, and these are obviously the markets that are located in the region. That is why it is extremely important for us in the Liberal Democratic Party to have this new regional policy, especially for those social enterprises, those companies located in the Sandzak area. Because where can these companies best sell their products than in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo territory? However, bad policy has made it impossible for these companies to function normally. Maybe they're the best examples of these enterprises in the Tutin municipality territory. "Dalas" from Tutina, which was a great company, produced goods he sold in the area of Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, and was brought into an extremely bad situation by bad policy. But the obligations the state requires of both this company and other similar companies to Dallas, such as "Stil", "Jasen", "Elan", "Jogi", etc., remain either the same or increased. Those are the problems we need to talk about. What the LDP insists on is a new framework in the business of all companies, i.e. changed policies. Unlike all other transition countries, which have at the right time made real political decisions that have allowed their economy to function normally, we flee from these decisions. That's why our transition is extremely slow, and slow transition is the worst transition. And the relation to privatisation shows that twisted picture, which we need to show the citizens. We show privatisation as a necessary evil, not as a need to create a modern society in which we will finally live the life that normal people live in normal countries. Due to poor examples of privatisation, the privatisation has been shown in most citizens, as I said, as a necessary evil. We must say that the way privatisation is imagined is the best way of privatisation Serbia should have, but the conditions in which that privatisation was made were far from those in which privatisation was carried out in other transition countries. That is why we should not be surprised that the huge number of contracts by privatised companies has been broken, which is why the capital that was supposed to come from abroad in Serbia was not safe. This was the only capital that came in here that was of dubious quality. If we as a state had made political decisions, including a decision to join the NATO Pact, then real capital could come and privatise how privatisation was made in Eastern Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54696	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54697	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we have before us a bill on business societies and two other laws, but I would like to speak something about this proposal for a law on business societies. The fact is that after many years of applying the old Business Society Act before us, a comprehensive proposal has appeared with 600 members, where this matter is seriously regulated, in a better way than it was regulated in the previous Business Society Act, because we have all seen what is wrong and what is wrong with us, based on five years of applying the current Business Society Act. This was precisely the reason for a broad public debate during which all those who have sufficient knowledge to point out the failures and who are in a position to point out the good possible solutions to how this should be done in the new company law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you were able to read on page 242 of this bill that only during October and November 2010 a whole series of meetings and presentations of this law were held with representatives of ministries and other institutions, courts, lawyers, representatives of banks, businessmen and media. Then, a presentation was carried out in front of auditors, as well as representatives of businessmen, both in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and in the Chamber of Commerce of Novi Sad; representatives of banks at the Association of Banks; representatives of the judiciary in the Court of Commerce; it means, mainly, in places where it could be ensured that all entities who could suggest good solutions could suggest possible irregularities in the old law. In addition, consultations were held and co-operation was carried out with the Foreign Investors Council, a presentation was held for investors in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Then, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development were consulted. It is precisely on the basis of such a large public debate that we have come to the point of discussing today in principle, and I hope for a few days and in particular, that this bill, which will bring us to the conclusion of the objectives, will bring us into line with the new European legislation; the harmonisation of the rules of the Capital Market Law; the resolution of a number of problems that have been seen in the application of the applicable law; more detailed and clearer arrangements will be made for individual institutes. Many of our fellow MPs and MPs have spoken of a more consistent distinction between limited-responsibility societies and stock companies. The adoption of the law will increase the responsibility of the director, as well as the members of the shareholders. A single and two-cameral governance system can be arranged; more detailed protection of trustees; electronic means of communication will be enabled; then, a single legal framework for entrepreneurs and, in particular, regulation and a consistent distinction between domestic and foreign companies' branches. It wasn't easy to make a bill like this. All of this not only regulate, but also count is not small, and especially in a good and adequate way to sort out the bill like this. The fact is that we are as a society in transition; what is specific is that there have been more problems in the relationship of the majority owner – minority owner, than in the relationship between the owners themselves and the management who manages a particular legal person. I think this bill of law properly regulates that part. I hope that we will be able to consider in the coming days, when we consider all these six hundred provisions, six hundred members of this bill, in detail all amendments submitted and the possibilities for this good bill to be further advanced. In any case, I believe that the adoption of the bill makes a major shift, creating conditions for better business, which should be the main driver of our development in the period ahead. I call on you to support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54698	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54699	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's respected citizens, there is one important and systemic law ahead of us, however, for the Serbian Radical Party, this law is now unnecessary in this form, because we had a law, passed five years ago, which is current, modern and basically did not create problems for the economy. What are the fundamental problems of the economy? The economic environment, which includes the liquidity issue, the debt issue, the gray market issue, the issue of governance, competitiveness, productivity, the functionality of our economy and all the problems that are in the area of economy. Instead of talking today at this session about measures to improve the economic environment, creating preconditions for overcoming certain economic problems, we are talking about a formal law. It is systemic and it is important, but basically, when we re-pick these 600 members, then we see that at least 300 members of this law do not belong to the matter of the law, they belong to founding acts, statutes, etc. It is unnecessary to introduce into legislation what does not belong to the law. In addition, the basic problem of our economy is that our country has a maternal attitude towards the economy, just as the state has treated GG businesses and craftsmanship during the period of communism and socialism, because it was private because it was not a tissue. Thus, the same state refers to companies and companies at the moment. As proof that so now I will provide you with more information that is unequivocal. Let's start with business duty. It is currently over 20 billion euros, which is likely to be 23-24 billion euros by the end of the year, which is a huge debt. It's 75% banking capital, bank-seeking assets, 20% debt to the state, and the rest are trustees. How was 2001? A little over eight billion German marks, about four billion euros. So five times the duty of the economy has been increased. Does that concern anyone? What are the reasons? What condition did the economy have to do with such a duty, and with what methods, what leverages would the economy overcome such a duty? Do we have measures? Can this economy be ripped out? If we compare this information to the company's assets, only then do we see a catastrophic situation, that we don't have a business. The value of the company's total assets is slightly over 15 billion euros and over 20 in debt. So, we don't have an economy anymore, it's not our economy anymore, it's the economy of whoever put the mortgage, who put the stock in, who's looking for, based on legal regulations, certain means. Who's that? It's the banks. So, our economy is no longer the economy of Serbia, it's the economy of the banking system and a little bit of the state, because the economy owes serious money to the state, especially the funds, to the PIO Fund over 200 billion dinars. It's about as many states as it is in a year. For this year, it's about 230,000,000 dinars, and the total debt to the PIO fund is, with interest, 200 billion dinars. When we compare this data to the data from 2001 and 1995, we see how much financial indiscipline is present in our economy. Now I'm going to give you information on the financial indiscipline of the economy and the problems of society because it cannot force the economy to fulfil its obligations that the economy must carry out, inter alia, towards the state. Only 18% of companies settle their obligations neatly when it comes to workers' salaries, 20% – salaries are paid after 15 days, 18% – after a month, and 44% – over 30 days. Look at the delays. There is an even bigger problem with tax and contribution payments: 26% of the economy pays taxes and contributions on a regular basis, 15% – up to 15 days, 11% – up to 30 days, 48% – longer than 30 days. When we cross-reference this data with data from the 1980s, when only a few percent of businesses have been unsettled by obligations, only then do we see real data on the extent of financial indiscipline in the economy. When we know that the state does not settle its commitments to the economy, that the economy is condemned to take credits from banks, and that credits, the most credits in Europe, have no State aid, or where the state needs to settle its obligations neatly, do not settle down, then you see the state of domestic economy. It is tragic that local self-government has now taken over primate in certain business borrowings, through certain fees, fees and other charges, so that in 2010, according to the Chamber of Commerce, seventeen new charges were imposed on the economy. This is a total of 65 duties, i.e. taxes, contributions, taxis, fees and other charges imposed as obligations on the disabled economy, threatened by unfair competition on the side, in charge, with huge problems it has. For the sake of time, I will move on to another law that is very important from the point of view of the recovery of a certain state of economy and of companies. However, such a concise law, which bears the name of the law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies, will certainly not bring any results, except that it will satisfy banks. He was written because the banking lobby forced certain ministries, the NBS, and the government to come out with such a law. This is said on page 17, where point 3 is said: "Restructure aims to enable the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia to have another beneficial and flexible way of, in agreement with each other and in agreement with the company in financial difficulties, liberating existing or providing new financial resources in order for the corporate debtor to recover the liquidity needed to continue business." It is not essential to help the debtor but to mortgage, to ensure priority in the collection of funds, and that, through certain liquid assets that will be paid by the debtor, the excessive bank, not by the state. This is a pest law, from the point of view of the state. I guess the state needs to protect itself first. The bank is protected by dozens of different documents, various types of security, it is protected. They're asking for another guarantee from the state, to disrupt a bunch of laws, bonding laws, mortgage laws, etc.; tear down these legal regulations, allow banks to collect what they otherwise get. Where's the state? I said the PIO Fund is looking for over 200 billion dinars from the economy. When's that gonna get the PIO fund? Never. What does 200 billion mean right now? That's half of the PIO fund's income in a year. What do you want to know? You only push this because lobbying circles in banks require that they get certain privileges through legal regulations, and they have plenty of them. An even more tragic provision of article 11, which says: “The financial restructuring can be carried out if at least two domestic or foreign banks are involved in it as trustees. ” Watch where you're going. First, why don't two, why not one, why don't seven banks, why don't seven creditors, why don't the creditors themselves take part in financial restructuring? I sold a certain machine, equipment to the buyer and the buyer didn't settle down; why wouldn't I, as a trustee, carry out a financial restructuring of that debt in that situation? You make it impossible, you give priority to banks, you rule out everything else. What does "two domestic or foreign banks" mean to you? How can a foreign bank directly participate in restructuring here without representation? If she opened a representative office here, then it's a domestic bank. This, in my opinion, is one pest law, because it gives priority to banks that are protected here under a special state patronage, and you know why. This law will allow only the orderly collection of claims to banks, which will strip the economy of this kind, and the state will run out of funds, as it has remained over the past ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54700	Mr. Buha, you've used 12 minutes and 15 seconds. With the apology of the DSS Parliamentary Group, the word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54701	In my presentation, I will refer to the proposal for a law on business societies, as the most important and key law in the area of corporate law. As we have heard, the minister here said that this law addresses issues that existed as problematic in the previous period, as far as the status and rights of minority shareholders and generally corporate governance are concerned, but based on a series of solutions that we see in the law, we can conclude that this is not the case at all. You can't see, in fact, a key goal or a solution to the problem which is obviously the intention of the legislator, which is how to address the status of minority shareholders and their position in companies in some perspective. Not to mention now the fact that Serbia's action culture was at a very low level in the previous period. We now have a situation that through a series of solutions largely, contrary to what the minister said, the rights of minority shareholders are narrowed down, which will create additional tensions, alongside those that we already have at this point in a large number of companies, between minority shareholders and majority shareholders. Here, I'll list a series of solutions and narrow down those rights. First, the right to a derivative suit – so far the right to the action has had every shareholder, now it is linked to a certain percentage of the participation in the capital of society. So not every shareholder has the right so far. Furthermore, the right to expand the agenda – again binds to a certain percentage of the company's capital. A reduction in the solutions that were. Further, inform the stockholder. Be careful who rightly deny shareholders, so they know. Therefore, the shareholder cannot know the documents proving the property and other property rights of the company, the annual report on the business of the company and the consolidated annual reports, the reports of the board and the director, or the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, if the management of the company is two-home. That right now, or that obligation, does not stand with the managing authority in society, to be delivered to shareholders. Now let someone say that depriving these rights, for which shareholders will surely know, especially minority shareholders, will not create additional problems. We now have a series of problems, that minority shareholders cannot schedule the assembly, cannot influence the number of rights they have in their companies. Yes, it's something that's been acquired. The status of minority shareholders has largely been acquired in that previous period of property transformation, but unfortunately, the action culture is reduced to the fact that shareholders, instead of encouraging themselves to deal with their companies, are encouraging them to sell their shares on the market as soon as possible. Furthermore, one of the big problems that exist in solving this law is... He says the problem of corporate governance will be solved. You bring in a series of newspapers here in the management, which we hardly can say are the adequate state of company rights and the state of business in Serbia at all. A legal person can be a representative, or even a director. You can imagine what kind of problems it's going to create in function, that instead of a natural person it can be a legal person. What effect will these legal entities have on those companies that give them these powers? You're not discussing the notion of non-executive directors, that we're not talking about independent directors. What's their role? What are they supposed to do in one supervisory, board of directors, except create additional tensions within that organ? It's not working out here at all. So corporate governance from the point of view of relations with minority shareholders and from the point of view of the organs that are predicted here, is said, one-home, two-homely, will create very big problems. You're just making things more complicated. You're introducing to entrepreneurs an incredible thing, a solidarity responsibility for an accountant. I don't know, I'd like to hear where you found it. It is known that the entrepreneur has established his own business store, either commercial or crafts; he corresponds to all of his assets. He can conclude a business contract with a person. This entrepreneur, we have this biggest problem in practice, is most often a person who has broken through legal personality and who has committed abuses in a business store or in a limited liability society. He's the one who used that store most of the time for his personal purposes. Now, because of his abuses, the manager should answer. Absolutely an incredible solution. You will not solve anything, except that no one who reads this law will want to be the manager or, as the people say, the head of any trade or trade. Next, the issue of delivery. Introduce the ability to deliver by electronic means. That's a good solution. But why would one company only have one e-mail? Why aren't they here anymore? At the very end of the line, in order to prevent them from avoiding delivery, it is necessary that we, by our amendment, propose that this e-mail address be registered. So they won't be able to avoid or say that what was needed to deliver was not delivered. It is amazing why this deadline is moving, which is one of the colleagues mentioned, for 2014, when it comes to granting power of attorney by minority shareholders, unless in the end of the line they do not want the status of minority shareholders thrown out as something that is desirable. Of course, the question relating to the breach of a legal personality, here, the colleagues talked a lot about it, is an extremely significant question, because it is the cause of great abuse in a situation where the largest number of limited-responsibility societies has one founder or possibly two, but you haven't solved this issue by this law, you haven't solved it at all. Again, the same solution that was left – that trustees should be burned through the court, that they should file criminal charges. These actions take a long time, those faces can escape. The serious problem that burdens our economy, and to this the colleagues rightly pointed out, is to break legal personality, and you haven't solved it in any way. Due to the shortness of time, the issues of preferential actions can also be mentioned, why it is necessary to be bought out by a company on market terms without talking about what the society will do with its own actions (we will talk more about it when the debate on amendments is held). Compared to the current solution, where they had to completely alienate themselves, you are now giving society the opportunity to keep these actions in its possession. We absolutely don't know what the point of it is, nor are you telling us what he's done with that solution. In any case, the law doesn't solve the problems that you've pointed out to exist here. We suggest he doesn't take it. I'll keep talking about the amendments in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54702	Seven minutes and thirty-five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from Vice-President Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54703	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to give my assessment of the context in which we pass the law on to companies, just as much as some of its provisions, especially about the two members on whom I have submitted the amendments, with the wish that both the language and the context in which we adopt law and debate, if possible, and certainly to bring what we know as members and express to those for whom we do all this, and these are citizens of Serbia. There are several kinds of laws passed by every national assembly and each parliament, which differ from who they apply to, and these are groups of laws, such as: the Constitution, if it is possible to equate this with the law relating to every member and member of society, then, the Family Law, which, as a "small Constitution", refers practically to all those who live in society, the Law on Budget, which indirectly applies to everyone in society, and these laws, such as the law on economic societies – essentially, just as many as it does to those who decide to set up such a message as the ones that work in business societies, but, more importantly, it refers to the image of the country, the state, the profile of those who are on public affairs and who manage the message that we send what kind of economy we make and want to develop in the society we manage. They also say that the analysis of the consequences of applying a law that the legislator makes best can be assessed if we try to put ourselves in the shoes of those or enjoy the roles of those to whom the law applies directly. This is the first point in my assessment that I want to share with you, because I have tried to talk to those who have companies of any kind, or they want to establish them, what everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia looks like to them, and then the National Assembly offers as regulation. I've collected a few sentences, and they're all about what we call small or medium-sized enterprises. People who employ up to ten or 50 people, although private capital representatives and founders of companies who hire and up to a thousand or more people, say – not to give me a tax policy to breathe, does not see me through my own tax policy how much I need to avoid tax evasion, to pay taxes, but to be able to breathe and to work. When we explain that question, then they tell me -- it's not as much tax as I don't feel that I have the elemental respect of those on behalf of the state, on behalf of the state administration, who are in charge of paying their taxes, so I feel humiliated, and I feel that I contribute to society with regular tax payments. It's the first thing that almost everyone who I've had the privilege of talking to because they wanted to get in touch with me about my question -- how does the state treat you while you have some company, you produce something, you work with a service, anything, a trade, how do you see that country that you and I do, I do in the legislative part, and you do in the manufacturing part, in that economic quadrant that I have to regulate? The second sentence they tell me is, they act, they always think of the representatives of the state, wherever they have contact with them, act as if I don't exist, in fact, asking them for something; of the five of whom I ask for something, who ask me for something, four or four of them say it's not my job, that I do it. I have heard that sentence so often from people who have taken the risk, invested their capital, raised their loans, wanted to produce, that the sentence they most often hear from the state's representatives – it's not my job, it's not my jurisdiction, come tomorrow. I personally declared war on that sentence because I think that a lot of people are wasting their time, money, nerves, emotions because people in public affairs, in the public administration, think they have the right to anyone who talks to them, and the law that we are now discussing from the economic sector is coming, they say -- it's not my job, it's not my jurisdiction. It's a metastasy of hatred for those who want to work and wherever and however I can fight against the sentence "it's not my job", that's what I'm going to do. The third thing I get in response after these two – I feel demeaned and treat me like it's not my job. So, the third sentence I get when I ask – well, you're an employer, you own a company, you're a loan, you're not satisfied with fiscal policy or taxes, you're not satisfied with the communication of people from the state administration to you, and how you treat your employees, are you harassing your workers, do you respect the Employment Act, do you respect the Labour Act, are your workers paid properly? The answer then consists of an explanation – well, as I have to, sometimes I can't pay them, sometimes I try to avoid obligations, sometimes I directly violate their rights that have one of those same regulations that we bring here. This is a context in which a new company law is passed. In order to improve the provisions of the law, I tried to enter into a dialogue with the representatives of the government that I support at the time, submitting two amendments. One amendment is to Article 145, in which I ask that the number of 50,000 dinars, relating to the founding stake, be replaced by a hundred dinars. Interesting thing, the same amount of misunderstanding that exists between representatives of companies and representatives of government or executive bodies or state administrations with which they have direct contacts happened between me and government representatives, because I ask one question and they answer the other. It's not the first time, this is the fourth or fifth time I've asked one question, and they answer the other. The opposition's approval is being broken through the hall, and I thanked you for your approval because that means I have complete awareness that government control is a joint business, and opposition and the ruling majority, whoever the opposition is and whoever is the ruling majority. If you can't criticize the government properly, then I have to; what do I do, there's no one. Article 145 says there's a founding role. National MP Janko Veselinovic gave the history of our experimentation through the 20th century, regardless of the various social systems we had in the 20th century. I will join in talking about the short history of this founding role that was introduced in 1996 from $5,000 and then reduced in 2005 to 500 euros, i.e. now 50,000 dinars, with one single explanation, that it will prevent phantom companies. This is the point where I start to agree with the owners, founders of companies, small and medium-sized enterprises or large enterprises when they say – people from the state administration don't understand me. So anyone who tells me that the founding role is an obstacle to the establishment of a phantom firm, or whatever, or doesn't want to do his job or doesn't understand what his job is or doesn't care. Whatever the three of them are, I don't find that interesting. It's interesting for me to try the amendment to end the founding role because it serves nothing but momentum, ours, and the ease with which we say "we're for reform", but when we have to do one quite simple, small step, then we say – we can't do it, it's complicated, we can't do it right now in this step. I'm going to ask my opposition colleagues to support this amendment in the voting day because I think it's a joint effort to help people who want to start, but to do the same to our country. In my explanation, I have proved and calculated how it is easier to set up companies by abolishing this amount for the founding stake, but also how it is raised in the Doing Business study of the World Bank of States that do so. I no longer understand my government representative because I am asking him to tell me that the table offered to him is not accurate or to tell me the real reason why they insist on a founding role that does not exist in either Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania, Bulgaria, Australia, Brazil, or Canada, or Cyprus, or France. In Germany, there is another amount for a completely different kind of establishment of societies, in Georgia, Great Britain, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Korea, the United States. I ask the second time, and they say well – that phantom companies are not set up. Phantom firms are a job for the police, for the investigation, for the crimes. Phantom companies are not a topic for people who really understand why the law needs to be changed, or to bring this otherwise good, company law. So, in the event of the adoption of this amendment, Serbia, which is currently in the general position of 89 out of the 182-ranked state, therefore, only by adopting this amendment and abolishing the founding role, is climbing 75th. I allow that I have not calculated correctly, that I have not consulted properly, but then I ask that it be shown to me that it is not true. In cases where it's just a start-up job, then a ranking based on the World Bank model, if we cancel the founding stake, from the current 75th place, where we're at because there's a founding stake, we're climbing to 13th place. Are we going to reform or not reform? The question I hope to get an answer from the government's representatives, as well as from all of us who, on such a simple case, will prove that reforms are not an empty story, that the decision to implement reforms depends on all of us when it comes to such an important sector as the economic sector, i.e. the establishment of companies. I have submitted the second amendment to Article 335, which defines the call for meetings and is being amended by the members to define the meetings of the company's shareholders so that it is possible to organise them, that it is possible to lead them, that a decision can be made on them. I would really like to ask the representatives of the promoters and all of you to take a careful look at this amendment, because it allows the meetings of the stock companies to take place without a problem in relation to the situation which currently exists, where there is a problem, from the delivery of notice to the deadlines, or to the way in which the meetings of the action society really are held. I listened carefully to everyone who participated in the discussion. If we talk again about the context in which we adopt this law on companies, the discussions I have heard in this room can be divided into two parts: one group of MPs, a member, or a law in general, speaks in favour of the adoption of laws on companies; the other group of MPs critically describing the situation in the economy in Serbia, paradoxically and precisely in favour of the adoption of this law. Just describing the situation and just yelling at you that nothing can change and that everything is really lame, you have an incredibly comfortable role to be always right. If you say that nothing can be done, it can't be that you're wrong and that you have some kind of attitude between us and facing the electoral body; the only thing is that nothing really changes, because no one is making any effort to change anything. For a critical description of our economic reality, for the failures that exist in regulation and again for the hope that the proposing representatives will accept these two amendments that I have, I will ultimately share with you the context of the language that we use unconsciously, if we listen to ourselves as we speak, as we describe the situation. It may not be directly related to business societies, but in this room and in the public speaking very often of poor privatisations, unprivatised privatisations, a poorly privatised sector; that is the language I would ask you to consider, do we have the right to use that word. There's no such thing as bad privatisation. Either there is a person who has committed a crime and must be subject to an investigation with a founding indictment, or you have a privatisation that works under the law, which "works" and brings good to the local community in which it exists. Our tendency to forgive the words "bad privatisation" is the worst service to all of us who want law and order in the economic and financial sector in Serbia. Privatisation can be either with a criminal act done, and then someone has to be found accused, or privatisation is good, because private capital is good and because private capital is what carries developed economies around the world, so it will also carry Serbia's economy. Also, not listening gives me an explanation that the founding role is needed because it prevents the establishment of phantom companies. This evidence doesn't help, the facts don't help, but I hope it helps us hear each other, understand each other, and listen to each other, and, with the help of all of us, by accepting this amendment, we help Serbia climb from 89th to 75th, and on the list that ranks the start of business from 83rd to 13th place. I don't doubt your support, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54704	Thank you, Vice President Komic. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Milic Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54705	Madam Vice President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was very interested in listening to the previous speech. He is indeed very critical, and such a speech does not often come from this side where the ruling coalition sits. He proves only one thing, that everything the Democratic Party of Serbia has said since July 2008, when this government was made, is true and that we were absolutely right. I mention that you have put into one joint principled search of three laws for which I did not understand what kind of relationship, especially this third one with the previous two – a proposal for a law on companies, a draft law on contractual financial restructuring of companies and a proposal for a law on the control of items of precious metals. The economy, in your opinion, is reduced to controlling something that is like precious metal. None of the esteemed speakers mentioned this third law today, and I have to talk about it because the DSS believes that each of the laws on the agenda is worth discussing here. The bill on the control of objects of precious metals has so far been... This area has so far been governed by the law of the federal state, the 1994 law, or 1996. That law's a bit out of date. It has become obsolete in relation to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it has become obsolete in terms of current times and especially in terms of what is called the modern market. In particular, producers and importers of precious metals, who felt that the state should finally deal with this and bring new legislation. Here's an example they've often pointed to. The existing Law on the Control of objects of precious metal obliges all domestic producers and importers to submit items of gold, silver or platinum to be examined in the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. When domestic producers focus, then it's quite all right, but the problem arises when it comes to importers, most often branded, foreign jewelry, which already have a stamp, has passed the control, a certain association stands behind the value of that brand and guarantees that what stands there is that it's signed by that brand, or a stamp that's in front of the association. The existing law states that the importer is obliged to send the case to the Directorate for Measures within 15 days of the moment of import. Of course, it makes business harder for businessmen in this area and bothers that single market for which this government declares itself. But when it comes to some concrete moves, when it comes to doing something in that sense, it does not. It is not negligible nor the fact to be mentioned, which is that import duties are 42% of the value of the product, which also interferes with business, but also how it fills the state budget. The businessmen in this area, craftsmen, jewelers, importers, felt that the bill before us needed to solve all these problems and help them overcome them, to move faster and simpler business. They especially highlight several kinds of problems. However, the law tried to solve them, but someone who was the legislator of this law obviously had no hearing or no interest in what the problems were in practice. The bill is now finally before us, and we can compare it to what people in practice have said is their problem. We see that this law on these particular problems is almost not responding. He's not completely interested in these specific problems in practice. For example, in Article 29, the law states: "The minister can recognise the validity of foreign stamps on cases if they are issued under conditions that ensure compliance with the requirements prescribed in the Republic of Serbia for these items. “ I ask you, where else is there in the world, and why would it be the discretionary right of any minister, why would it be his will? Why does the minister have to judge that? It's just amazing. In point 3 of the same article, you further say: "The Minister is drawing closer to recognising the foreign trade marks of Article 2 of this article. “ In other words, in law you will not talk about it. You don't have any specifics regarding this matter, but it will be in sublaws. It will be if it is and if it is not, none of it will be. The question is, when are your sublegal acts coming out? Only, this reason for you to pass this law to help practice, to overcome people's problems in practice no longer stands. By ignoring people's problems, you show that you don't care about people's problems, that it's enough for you to pay 42% of the value of each product, and there's no end to the state's interest in them. Of course, because it is very important to you that out of that 42% of the budget, so that you can, the Government and Boris Tadic, that the administration, which is growing and larger and accumulate, is being supported. On the other hand, the issue of this reconstructed government is being raised, where did all these people who showed up at one point as a technological surplus and they just "repacked" into other ministries? And to answer the question – what is the value for each of us in life by having your government reconstructed? What is a fact, it is that this government and President Boris Tadic will remain in history remembered as the most incompetent government that has betrayed all vital interests of the Serbian state. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 26 and 27, which are a direct introduction to corruption, you further multiply the bodies that should do the same work as the already mentioned It's simply unnecessary for you to introduce new legal entities, new bodies, and that they do the same job. That's a fact. We'll still discuss this law when we talk about amendments, because we have a dozen amendments submitted, and then we'll talk about concrete things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54706	Thank you. There's a word from MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54707	The respected chairman, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement are, as a correct and constructive coalition partner, the only right-wing members in the ruling majority and, of course, we look at all the provisions that bring Serbia back to pre-communist foundations, which bring Serbia back to itself, which means that Serbia is being brought closer to the European Union. It is known that all our major legal reforms were made with respect to everything that existed as our social reality, but also by the respect of large legal codifications, above all to the French Code of Civilian, of the German civil code. In criminal law, we were largely turned to the most developed legal systems. In legal history, it is known that even great codifiers, like Justinian, did not rely solely on a single mental set, were not only looking to respect domestic legal experts, but they applied all the best legal institutes that were then known to exist in the country and the environment. Action was introduced in Serbia in 1911. There was a stock exchange, there was a stock exchange, the country was on a business flight, the dinar was stable, the principle of security and honesty in business. At that time, the owners of the capital held to honor, not only business. Profit wasn't the only motive for dealing with some economic activity. First of all, in Belgrade, and throughout Serbia, there are still duties, foundations, everything left to the nation by those who then otherwise understood business, the state and their nation. We had one violent break just in 1945. That the Serb civil class was killed, that those who were down there went up, and that those who were above all physically suffered or driven into the white world. From 1963 to 1990, the former Yugoslavia lost 23,000 doctors to science due to negative selection. Of course, there were a number of communist nonsense and communist experiments that each had a fiasco. From the state management of the economy, from working self-management, from the lack of intellectual work, from those with the lowest education even doctors, surgeons prescribing the standard of how much they need to operate daily, from stupidity to, say, when the tailor sews up the sleeve, and if the surgeon saves someone's hand and sews, it's non-productive work, from the introduction of the Law of Association and everything and everything – fiasco to fiasco. We expected that by introducing a multi-party system in our country in all areas of our social, political and economic life we would look at more orderly legal systems, which have been made up of governments since 2000, but not fully, not comprehensively, not comprehensively. That is why, when we criticise the SPO, we criticise exactly in our best interest, in order to fully adapt society to what society needs. First of all, I mean the organization of economic operators. The 2005 Business Society Act also had good solutions, but there were also a lot of bad solutions. The very fact that there have been six amendments and the addition of that law says enough. After 1945, we had a few dozen amendments to the laws that were primarily related to our businesses or companies. What happened back in the '90s? It is precisely the heirs, children and sons of those who experimented with the economic life of the then-Yugoslavia and Serbia that have become, above all, various criminal acts and because they were war profiteers, enjoyed the state's support or relied on a "Colubar" etc., capital owners. As such, since they did not have pedigre of those civil Serb classes before World War II, that was their relationship with both capital and employees. That is why it is good that this assembly of the National Assembly passed the Law on the ban on abuse at work, because today, abuse at work is common in Serbia precisely because of the fact that the most frequent capital of suspicious origin has become capital with which privatisation took place. Today, we do not have many successful privatisations or many relationships in which employers, new owners of capital, really treat their employees properly. But there are some good examples to be mentioned. The "Farmakom MB" consortium has performed some good privatisations, primarily "Mlekare" Shabac, "Livnice" in Guca, in Dragačev, which are doing excellent business, and the attitude towards workers is indeed at an extraordinary level. There is satisfaction at all levels, wages are increased, production is increased, working conditions are improved, and that is something we from the Serbian Renewal Movement expected to see at every step. Since the previous law of 2005 has indeed been greatly exceeded, the fundamental question now is whether this law creates a normative environment for a different behaviour and business of companies? Since we have followed a public debate on this law, compared it with parallel legislation, we think that we should expect a lot of optimism to make things better in this area, not only because the EU directives will be respected, or because the law is largely turned towards European legislation, but because it is addressed to regulated economic and legal systems. If you conduct a survey or research with our citizens today and ask them if they have business security, they will give you an answer that they do not. Among the foreigners who came here were those who came with the best intentions and with healthy capital, and others, but believe me, most of them we contacted did not fully understand some of our legal institutes, did not feel the security of investment to the extent that it would be sufficient, regardless of what the state did, this government carried out a number of positive measures in terms of attracting foreign investors, from subsidising jobs. Local self-government has contributed greatly. We from the Serbian Renewal Movement expect the government to reward them for it. I have mentioned several times the Lapovo municipality that has freed investors of all local obligations and has therefore impoverished its budget. Not only the municipality of Lapovo, but all municipalities that behave similarly, the Indjia municipality, the Varvarin municipality and many small local self-government, should receive a reward from this government rather than be punished for doing something good for their citizens and for Serbia. I say we're moderately optimistic. We'll see how the law applies in practice, but when it comes to the normative part, we don't have any more serious objections. We seem to need it for the sake of legal certainty, because there have been many abuses, because many companies have been opened just to trick the trustees, to trick their associates, that there is also an account at the memorandum of every firm and tax identification number, and that some amendments that strengthen the prevention of abuse may be accepted. It is a good thing that this law will come to a better understanding of both our and foreign businessmen and investors, which is introduced by new institutions on the protection of shareholders, particularly minority shareholders (we have witnessed many disputes of majority and minority shareholders), which has been introduced by a home and two-home society management system with limited responsibility and a limited company, and it is certain that further education of our businessmen will be needed. The Supervisory Board is finally getting meaning which it has not had so far because it assumes one part of the competences previously exercised by the Management Board of companies in respect of the business strategy, the objectives of the company; it appoints executive directors, carries out more serious control and supervision of the business of companies. The responsibility of directors and members of society has been increased, there is responsibility for all of its assets. That's good because it's not enough for someone to answer only criminally for ruining a company, deliberately producing bankruptcy, etc., it's necessary to match their property and believe that sanctions are more significant and convincing than criminal sanctions. It's a good thing there's an electronic way of communicating, which has introduced a lot of new institutions that you could really talk about for a long time. We think this will improve the stability of business companies, that this law finally, after seventy years, puts an end to many communist nonsense and illusions, because, let's not forget, many are still mentally in a single-party system. There's no more conductive political economy, there's responsibility for unconscious conduct, there's essentially a change in relationships in our economy, there's an elimination of the sense of injustice, and it seems to us that trust is finally being finally protected. That is why Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will support this legislative proposal in the voting day, and once the debate begins, we will try to make our contribution to correcting this good law through some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54708	Thank you. I give my word to the People's MP to Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on companies has been presented to us as a way to fully regulate this matter and solve the problems identified over the past six years. Also, several times, both today when presenting to the National Assembly and in the public, emphasis is placed on giving greater rights and better protection for minority shareholders. We heard from the authorities and they got commendation from the professional public. I will try to explain to Serbian citizens in the next few minutes, which is why the Serbian Radical Party's stance is not to adopt a law in this form in which it is in front of the MPs, but that it needs to suffer certain, larger corrections. The attitudes of most citizens are identical to those of the Serbian Radical Party. Many Serbian citizens felt wrong on their skin by facing the fact that they were forced to sell their actions by force. In a law that is currently in force and in this bill, it is called a slightly milder name – forced buy-out action. Force and force mean the same thing, except when someone doesn't answer to call someone a real name he finds a synonym that sounds a little lighter. The right of property is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 58. I will read this article: “The peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the basic law is guaranteed. The right of ownership may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market price. The law can limit the use of property. The confiscation or limitation of property for tax and other taxes or penalties is permitted only in accordance with the law. “ That is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, and this law is the most cruel violation of the Constitution-guaranteed law. The fact is that the largest number of citizens of the action was acquired in the privatisation process, but it was done under the law; some of them were acquired on the basis of work in a company; then, some of the actions were obtained by dividing everyone who did not work in enterprises whose actions were divided or disowned by the ownership of the actions they would have received where they were working, in order to exercise the right to free actions by individual companies because they hoped that they would be worth a thousand euros. Time has shown that it was only one in a series of pre-election empty promises. People who lost their jobs right in the privatisation process and who were otherwise poor were probably in despair at one point thinking they could acquire actions that would become their assets and which could be sold at the price that would bring them that promised amount of thousands of euros. Many have hoped that a number of family members will thus come up with some money that will allow them to buy a car to tax or open a kiosk to survive this difficult time. Of all that, of course, nothing. I have already mentioned that many citizens who have acquired actions in privatising companies in which they have worked on their skin have felt what it looks like to be forced to buy them those actions. They simply wanted to keep those actions because it became their property. They wanted to bear the risk of operating – if they got, to participate in the deobi, if there were losses, to bear losses, but to dispose of their assets by accepting the risk that followed. However, the procedure was as follows: first comes the public takeover bid. Those who do not wish to sell their shares did not respond to these offers, but then received a written request for forced sale of shares no later than 120 days after the end of the deadline from the public offering. Unless the request for forced sale is answered within 30 days, the tenderer, i.e. the owner who owns over 95% of the shares shall pay the money to incompatible shareholders and then be entered in the Central Register. It's not important for shareholders, because it essentially doesn't change anything, but the current bill doesn't provide for a 120-day notice. Even now it's out of the law. One of the more important things is that now by law, you're a redeemer, i.e. a shareholder who has at least 95% of the shares treats someone who owns their actions and actions related, if they are connected to the buyer at least one year before making a decision on a forced ransom. This directly reduces the equity threshold of 95%. As we are not for the forced sale of shares in the Serbian Radical Party, we are neither obliged by a control shareholder who has 95% of the shares that must buy out the actions of each of the remaining shareholders of the society when this is sent to him by written request, as referred to in Article 522. It's a bill of law. These provisions are actually written to cover a forced ransom, because it is one of the very unfair ways. The SRS Parliament Club has submitted amendments to which we have proposed different solutions, which are based on a little more justice and equality, that everyone has the right to dispose of their assets in a way that he assesses to be the most correct. We'll talk about it when the time comes for discussion in detail. What I would still point out concerns the criminal provisions provided for in this law. The Serbian Radical Party is of the opinion that criminal offenders should be clearly defined. When I say so, I mean provisions relating to the fact that in the event that a legal representative of a society or a member of a company body, a liquidating manager, an authorised judicial expert, an auditor or another professional person, that a written statement of untrue content, in order to damage the trustee or members of a society, in addition to fines and prison sentences, must also be punished by prohibiting the performance of a function. Such a sentence should also be prescribed as mandatory in the case where persons who have special duties to the infringement society have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest in order to obtain property benefit for themselves or others, as well as where a representative of the company injures the duty of conduct in accordance with the limitations of their powers. The promoter predicted the possibility of issuing a ban on performance, but only the possibility; we suggested that it be a mandatory part of the sentence. We are also in favour of sanctions committed by entrepreneurs being sanctioned by the fact that, in addition to confiscation of the property benefit achieved by committing the offence, a mandatory part of the penalty will be imposed and the measure of banning the exercise of activity within a certain period of time. I suppose the proposer will say to this that this is an area defined by the Criminal Code and the Law on Infringements, but it now imposes on itself one question – how can this law violate the Constitution guaranteeing the right of property and, on the other hand, stick to the provisions of other laws that define certain provisions? The fact is that in Serbia all things are respected in part, including the Constitution itself, according to the needs of those who write the laws. Given that we are also having a debate this time, which brings together three points of the agenda, I will bring my discussion to an end, because other fellow MPs from the SRS Parliament Club should also get time to present their views on other drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54710	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54711	Thank you. I would return this story today to the beginning of the economic transition process in the countries of Eastern Europe, when it is accepted by so-called. The Washington Consensus, or the list of ten recommendations that countries with problems should follow if they want to reform their economy, become a successful market economy... Over time, this proved to be completely unsuccessful and only two or three countries had slightly higher GDP compared to the period compared to the one compared to the previous ten years. It became clear that such reforms could not produce any significant and lasting results, that it was simply necessary to supplement the list with some so-called so-called. New reforms, second generation. One of the most important recommendations on the list was just to improve corporate governance in transition countries. What the economic literature says is that corporate governance actually represents a system that is run and controlled by companies, and thus is defined, therefore, as a set of mechanisms through which the company works when the property is separated from management. Some basic motive for improving this corporate governance is some interest that should be recognised, because, of course, only well-organised corporate governance to a significant extent would also contribute to improving the financial performance of businesses and, of course, to the reputation of the outside world. It is, unfortunately, in theory so, and in Serbia, of course, things are different. In particular, the fact that significant changes affecting corporate governance in Serbia have occurred in the past ten years. Of course, this all came from the fact that most of the social enterprises were privatised, while a certain (although, significantly smaller) number of larger enterprises took over foreign capital. The privatisation carried out by selling 70% of the shares to one investor has affected the structure and management type to benefit the majority owner, who, of course, is setting up and controlling the management. As the dominant or most significant problem in Serbia, this problem has just arisen at the owner-owner's route, i.e. how to protect minority shareholders from abuse of the majority owner. On several occasions, I talked about concrete things, related to this very finding, using the example of two youth enterprises, it is about "Cobest" and "Keramica"; however, nothing has changed much more. In 2004, when the Business Society Act was adopted, which regulated these issues of corporate rights, corporate governance was among them... Although it is brought in line with the OECD, with EU directives, etc., it is clear that it is not what it should be, which is primarily seen in its implementation; and for most of the other laws there is a problem in implementing the law itself in practice. The next thing I'd like to point out is that this quality of corporate governance in Serbian stock companies is extremely low. This is all due to the fact that what I was talking about, that action in Serbia was most often made by privatisation and that in this sense the power of the law, the intervention of the state and that it was not created at all as something natural, from some economic motives of market participants. This has just created a difference between this institutional-legal arrangement and economic reality. What is interesting is that companies themselves believe that the main cause of low quality corporate governance is precisely the inefficient application of legal regulations of companies, securities of value by courts and other state bodies. This very state of corporate governance is largely a reflection of the ownership structure of the companies that we have already been able to hear, in Serbia, is highly concentrated. In particular, this is largely expressed in the banking sector. These facts, of course, also affect the development of the capital market in Serbia. The main concern is that most Serbian stock companies listed in the de facto capital market do not raise capital there. Also interesting are data, i.e. analysis, that almost 90% of companies have not received external investments in the past five years, that 89% of companies do not plan to issue new shares, nor to raise fresh capital through capital markets in the coming period. The main reason for such a definition is the desire to preserve the existing ownership structure that protects that control shareholder. One of the biggest problems concerns transparent business and public reporting. It is evident that there is a major lack of understanding of the functions of certain control procedures, audits and that they are often inadequately defined. In particular, it does not understand the role of an external auditor, while the internal auditor either does not exist or is only formal in order to fulfil some legal obligation. Serbia is primarily missing one relevant case-law in this area, I would say business practice. Clearly, it takes a long time for such a thing, and above all assumptions that will have to be created. Hence, the business environment in Serbia is as it is, which is that potential investors in Serbia have unprotected status, that managers are insufficiently professional. All this leads to an extremely difficult and inefficient management in Serbian companies. This is only part of the reason, and my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party will talk about it even more later. Therefore, it is not difficult to conclude why the SRS will not support such a law on companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54712	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54713	I am very glad that finally the public could understand that Mrs. Comić knew all this well and kept it a big secret for years and had just opened her soul and said some things that were acceptable, but we were punished for these things, Mrs. Comic. Okay, that's past now, that's a habit. And we invited Mrs. Comic to support us in the fight against organised crime, but if she really wants to fight honestly, we will help her. Look at the miracles, the real surprise is that today in the hall there is no Miljko Radisavljevic, prosecutor for organised crime. You'd have to give him a stenogram of this session, because there's a lot of material for him here; when he hears it, he's bound to do it. I will take the opportunity, of course, not to come out of the frameworks defined by these three draft laws, that with concrete examples of a little "salt" this, that it be understandable to everyone. The first thing that must be said about the first draft of the law is that the objective of adopting this law is not to directive, not to regulate controversial issues in relation to small shareholders, etc., but to say those from the Democratic Party,'reset', 'zero', amnesty for everything that has been done so far. I simply cannot understand that when this law is passed, small shareholders will be in a position to protect their rights, and so far they have reportedly not been able to do so because they were bad solutions in the applicable law. Of course that's not true. I don't want to raise the question of the quality of those people who need to apply these regulations, but I want to draw attention to the fact that, from time to time, we are changing good European regulations to even better European regulations, in order to reset it, so that everything will fall into oblivion. Because once the economic operators agree their normative acts and their business with this law, no one will ever have the right to return to the past, so that they can ask how they privatised “Luke”, who, as far as they owe, as possible. With a great oath, tax regulations were laid down, etc. - will be a persistent state, we will continue to finish this job – and in the end we hear that two hundred or three million euros is one of the most successful debts. I'm sorry, please, any hairdresser could be successful if he doesn't settle his obligations to the state; any craftsman could be successful if he doesn't pay taxes and contributions, and you're paying him everything in order. I'm sorry, please, it's known that when the delte retail facilities are filled, the first charge is a gift, the second charge is payment in 180 days, the third charge – if you survive, we'll pay, if we can't pay, there are side companies through which 15% can charge the claim. There was no "Delta" special invention, so did other oligarchs, those who were overnight, neither guilty nor debtors, thanks to card mixing, became extremely rich. Of course it suits them to finance a change of government that would be dimensioned in the way they want it to be, because then that authority has to write off all the debts that exist to them. It's a vicious circle, closed. The day after tomorrow, we will have amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Then it is perfectly normal in Serbia that 126 votes and the possibility of having a government can achieve anyone who has several million euros and who is obliged to sponsor some kind of abuse. That must be said, in order not to remain unrecorded, and later I will remind you of the words I once said and what I'm saying today. Just to draw attention to the fact that the provision of Article 31, which speaks of MPs, is in the end strange to some – how can this legal person be a representative of another legal person? I must remind the MPs of the majority that you voted in favour of the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons, that under that law there is the possibility of being held accountable for that kind of joint criminal enterprise. The oligarchs realized that they didn't want to be more of a natural person at the head of their firm's office to be wolfed out by courts, but to hire managers, paid people, to do a little bit of imitation of what's in America -- I own the stock, at the end of the year I want a guaranteed profit, and the director is going to be my slave who's going to work, to successfully run my company, I, as a big boss, can change that. It's an individual view of the market economy that is dominant in the United States. When he comes here to defend a bill like Verica Kalanovic, who is now vice president... First, I would remind her that she was the chairman of the National Lottery of Serbia's Management Board at the time Bojan Kristo was the director. That fact in itself speaks a lot about how honest it is to approach these affairs. I can quote names: Tijana Angelić, Djilas, Saper, Krstic and Tadic, but Mr. Miljko Radovanovic can be taken into account, he will not make a mistake at all. I'm talking about companies, so you don't get me wrong. We have a business company in Belgrade, another Kristo, the same. Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, apropo of what Mrs Comic rightly criticised earlier, we have not yet received a report from a budget inspection that visited Belgrade Airport two years ago; that report has not even been received by employees, no one has received that report alive. If I were to tell you about all the abuses, what was going on, the layoffs, the hiring through the selected youth cooperative and executives, and even those bonuses, now Velimir Radosavljevic has fictitiously returned 36,000 and who knows how many dinars, with a very small banking commission for this service, but it doesn't matter... It's just amazing how you think a wolf can keep a flock of sheep. I don't know how you pictured it. The goat keeps the cabbage! The only argument for the foundation or seriousness of the adoption of a new law is: we are going to Europe, it is prescribed by a directive. Well, if in Europe private property is sacred, why not apply that principle to Kosovo and Metohija, for the territory of Republika Srpska? Private property is sacred, so let it return to its rightful owner. But, no, no. Why not? Well, because today we have a situation to follow the “word of love ” that comes to us from Brussels. Just to remind you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I know that you will support me in this, did you hear, say, what Richard Holbrook is saying about the Serbian people? He says Serbs are criminal assholes. What does Klaus Kinkel, German Foreign Minister? The Serbs should be thrown on their knees. Let me put something together with the companies, so that you can understand it a lot more clearly. You see, James Baker said in June 1992: we will wage war against Serbs, diplomatic, economic, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, political, propaganda and psychological. This psychologically is not “the Big Brother. ” When you know what it's all about, what it's thinking about, and when it's clear to you that there's a power that needs to be installed here in superlatives to talk about European standards, then the natural consequence of it is this chaos that happens in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia. Those who have significantly destroyed the economy of the Republic of Serbia since 2001 by giving only a primate to finance (i.e. read: foreign banks) have now figured out how to deal with the internal debt situation, so they have offered us a bill on the contractual financial restructuring of companies. When you read this bill, you will see that there are banks at the centre of the law, because I don't see why trustees and debtors and what instruments could agree to regulate their debt-trust relations unless a bank shows up there. But the cause of the debt-confidential problem should also be sought in the state. The state received hundreds of millions of euros, say, from the United States to take out the judiciary, so they took out that building next to Nemanja 9 and still owed over five hundred million dinars to the builders. Can someone sit calmly, coldly in government and propose new economic and European regulations, and forget, say, that contractors have not yet been paid the Aval Tower? How many companies have you put under lockdown or bankruptcy? Let me remind you, before it is invoiced, that is, the moment when the builder or supplier is invoiced has to pay the tax. You rob that man twice: the first time he pays taxes, and the second time you don't pay him, you force him to keep his liquidity, to go to the banks. The state lottery sold its business space in Svetozar Marković "Metals Bank". Think about it. Now, let's move on to a new topic, which will be interesting. And Mr. Ciric is familiar with the situation at the Energy Project. He delivers memos without seduction. You see, there's no record that it's been seduced by the Ministry, there's no one to send it to, and it's been sent to small shareholders of the Energy Project. It's got some signature, maybe it's his, maybe it's not. An interpretation is given when the Government and the Action Fund are donated to ensure that the majority is provided in order for someone to complete the "Energy Project" decommissioning because the "Energy Project" has a large number of immovableities abroad, so everyone can get hold of that immovableity in terms of system breakdown. What do little shareholders write? The small stockholders kept everything in order. I need to distract you. "Dear Mr. Nikezic... "It is the prime minister's advisor, famous. They say to him: “How rationally do they explain that the energy project, Vladimir Milovanovic, is coming, convicted of a serious crime of drug trafficking, for which he has endured a prison sentence? “ You know that, Mr. Kiriq, you have received. I've got a lot of material here for these strategic partners of yours, but they're gonna give me a warning, they're gonna punish me, but the citizens already understand what this is about. Then the "Energoproject" of the Development Fund gives me, not to be wrong, 321,000,000 dinars of credit! And what about their locations, what happened to their jobs, nobody cares, because now we're in the reset phase. The dots don't work, it's done. Now, imagine who's on the Energy Supervisory Board? Mr. Shoskic, governor! Can you imagine who else is on the board of directors? Gašo Knezevic, expert, plagiarizer! Now you're making us believe you, because Article 4 has both a point and a dot and the first letter is big at the beginning of the sentence, you've called for directives in an explanation. Imagine what you wrote, say, in the law on mutual financial restructuring? He says - in good faith. Well, if there was a good faith, the firm would never have gotten into that kind of trouble. If there is a possible recovery and a sustainable continuation of business, in order to allegedly prevent bankruptcy... In fact, much better in this bank procedure, they can become property owners than in bankruptcy proceedings. That's the whole story. Now we're going to listen to the data here. I don't want to hear the administration say I'm not in charge. It gives us Mrs. Comić's lecture as at the school for little ducks, as if it were the main problem of companies. It's not the main problem of companies. The main problem of our companies is precisely in these visionary messages that I have read to you, which Europe, NATO pact and the world have sent to the Serbian people, which should end here. Or, for example, what Jacques Chirac says: “The Serbs are a people without law and without faith; they are a people of robbers and terrorists. ” And you take us to them. What does Mrs. Thatcher say? He says: “Stop Serbs immediately and forever. “ What does Pope John Paul II say? "You should bomb Serbs. “ Jamie Shay says, ” says the climber, “the Serbs need to be calmly bombed because they will forget everything quickly. ” That is why I remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia - do not believe that it will dawn upon you as soon as this law is passed. The law should apply a infantry that has not done a good job for the Republic of Serbia in eleven years! I will keep reminding you, no good work for the Republic of Serbia has been done for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can wrap this in a variety of landscapes, you can perfume, you can whine, you can do whatever you want, there's no production in Serbia. Production has been shut down because this is a market where surpluses from Western Europe should be sold. With no loan, Western Europe wants to boost production in Serbia, but consumption, to buy their goods. That's why you signed that deal that freed you from paying customs all the goods coming from Western Europe counting, like, we're gonna get better. We'll all be satisfied with the voyeurs while we watch the windows with the company's goods. What a great pleasure! You don't take care of the Republic of Serbia, you don't care. You're interested in what they're going to say in Brussels, have you completed your mission? You're designed to accomplish these tasks here. That's why I'm reporting, so I keep reminding the citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to agree to this kind of policy and this kind of government being implemented. Our direction is not a NATO pact, the Western European Union, our direction is – in and out of their beaks, and with all of our traditional friends. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54714	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54715	Thank you. Dear Mr. Krassic, I'm sorry I haven't been since the beginning of your presentation, but I'll take the stenograms, and we'll do it next time. Let me just answer you about the memo you're talking about and the story about the "Energoproject". The memo you're talking about, I signed it. It's about interpreting certain legal solutions, because the ministry's job, in my case of economics, is to give interpretation of certain laws. I'll just remind you, until last year there was a Act on the Action Fund that practically made it impossible for representatives in certain companies where the state had minority capital owned by the Action Fund to vote for certain decisions. In the case of the Energy Project, the state (and now) owned 34% through actions of the Action Fund and the PIO Fund. I agree with you that there have probably been certain discriminatory decisions of the Energy Project Management until then. That's why we started the procedure. The action fund and the PIO fund, it's a technical matter, it's a gift of action to the state and the state is... But let me remind you, it was a request, a request, whatever you want to call, of the small shareholders of the Energy Project, who at that moment and the previous years, especially last year, were completely disproved. At the assembly, we received support for our proposal on restructuring, revitalisation, recovery of the Energy Project. Apart from the people who voted on behalf of the state, we got support and funds that have actions and minority shareholders. Ten members of the Management Board in the Energy Project... Some are by the state, some are independent, on the side, but they all got support and minority shareholders. The Energy Project has been selected by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, but the Management Board has chosen management. The management has so far succeeded, in four or five months of normal business, to bring jobs to the barracks "4. July," to close a business with Kazakhstan of nearly 30m euros. The Energy Project is a strategically important firm for the Republic of Serbia. We have publicly said that the Energy Project will not privatise, sell, that the state will review certain decisions made in the past related to certain locations of the Energy Project through its representatives in the Management and Supervisory Board. Since the state has been actively engaged in the Energy Project... We do not interfere in business, it is the work of professional people who have been working in the Energy Project for years or decades, but the situation, which was critical, at the edge of the shooting before the assembly was held in September, is well stabilised. One form of aid is a loan from the Development Fund, which has been fully provided and given to the Energy Project for liquidity and permanent crafts. I don't see what's so controversial about the biggest home design and engineering house, one of the biggest companies in Europe, the company that now has... 60% of the company's income comes from businesses, intellectual services it provides in Azerbaijan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, in highly competitive markets. As far as this is concerned, I think that the involvement of the state in the case of the Energy Project is not disputed but should only be commended because we have come to the situation that the current business policy of the Energy Project is supported by small shareholders. After all, we will see this in the congregation that will take place in June of the month. The Statute of the Energy Project is such that it implies that every year a congregation is held and elected by existing or new management bodies, so that I do not see what is controversial and why you have apostropheeded exactly “Energoproject”, but I am glad that you have done so, because it shows (and not only that case) that the state’s participation or state moderation in the first place was the requirement of minority shareholders, which there are several thousand, if I am not mistaken, in the “Energoproject”. One more thing to tell you, regarding your argument regarding customs. We had a temporary status of duty-free trade with the European Union, where the European Union has abolished our customs duties since 2001, and we have kept customs duties. The trade agreement with the European Union implies the legalisation of that situation; customs duties are by the European Union, all Member States, absolutely abolished, and we have a deadline for adapting, or phase-out. On the other hand, we have the status of the most privileged nation in some other countries, but in particular our biggest trading partner, Mr Krasic, is the European Union, are the countries of the European Union. Our country's largest foreign trade partners are Germany, Italy, Slovenia, Austria. I don't see what you mean... In particular, apropo industry, industrial production and exports are growing over the past and the first three months of this year. Do you know why they grow? Our companies are exporting to the European Union. It's good if you're a closed market and everything you produce your citizens or businesses can consume. In any case, I see no other way than further approaching, economically (naturally, politically, but here I am talking about economic convergence), the European Union. It has been shown that the system of values, in economic terms, for which it stands and which promotes the European Union is functioning. These are the most developed countries in the world. I don't see any other way or solutions, except to get as close as we can to the European Union and to adopt those things that are good with them. I must say, I am very pleased, as Minister of Economy, that we have the opportunity to enable our businesses to export their goods dutylessly, their products to the territory of the European Union. I agree with you that it should "be in and in its beaks", but the current international economic scene is based on mutual co-operation. One of the reasons why we have exports growth last year of 24% and a few months this year of 36-37% is that the companies that invested here, dominantly from the EU, have built their production plants here, hired our people; here they produce and export to the European Union. That's how you reduce the trade deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54716	Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54717	Let's just explain some things. It sounds very nice what you said, just where did the foreign trade deficit come from? It's a sick subject. You can talk about exporting over there, but why the foreign trade deficit? As for the Energy Project, do you know that a 3,600,000-euro dispute has been lost in London? You don't know about that? Do you know that some foreign affairs have failed because there is a mole, an insider in the Energy Project itself, who wants to degrade the Energy Project? It's reality, it's facts. I call on small shareholders, Mr. Ciric you heard, he's fighting for the rights of small shareholders, he's fighting for the fact that the "Energy Project" doesn't break up according to that concept as one of Zecevic imagined, come to Mr. Ciric tomorrow, say I was wrong, Mr. Ciric has to be your representative to be in accordance with the regulations. If that's the effect of this debate, I'm too pleased, Mr. Ciric. But if you're already so capable, then solve the issue and Belgrade Airport, this layoff, car shopping and these deals (incomparably more expensive rolling stock than can be bought, shopping through intermediaries). There is no difference between what Belgrade Airport is doing and what Sarancic was doing with locomotives, except there was a train, and there were passenger cars and other things. They could have been directly through some cooperative to provide. The point of my debate is, what a specific composition of people is leading our economy, we're good and alive. Call Miljko Radosavljevic, for him is work here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54718	The word has a People's MP... First Minister Ciric. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54719	I won't answer again. I'm just saying, I'm trying to know a lot about the things I do. I know about the dispute in London, Mr. Krasic, but it's a dispute that has been started because of the operation and activity of previous management, which we have replaced. Three and a half million euros, I think, or dollars, absolutely agree with you, should be questioned how that contract came about, number one. Number two, as far as the situation in the Energy Project is concerned, there are no weeds in each crop, so I have no doubt that the Energy Project also has people who do not like the legitimate business of the Energy Project. And, one more thing to tell you - I have no problem seeing small shareholders. In September, when the “Energoproject” assembly was held, I addressed all those present, including small shareholders. I think there were at least one-five hundred of them in the union hall. So I have absolutely no problem, but when we're dealing with some facts, then at least we know when something started, it lasted, when it was over and who was responsible or guilty of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54720	The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54721	Thank you very much, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Can I just know the time of our parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54722	Sixteen minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54723	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, citizens of Serbia, within a set of three draft laws that we are discussing today are two laws that treat similar issues in a certain way, these are the proposal for a law on companies and the proposal for a law on contractual financial restructuring of companies, as well as a law which is by far specific, and this is a bill on the control of items of precious metal. Except that all three laws are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, this third one does not have some touch points, so I will deal with this law a little bit more in the next, by proposing a law on the control of items of precious metals, and these previous two have already widely explained my colleagues from the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to the provisions of this law, platinum, gold, paladium, and silver are included under precious metals, and solid mixtures of one or more precious and one or more unblemished metals under their legions. The area has so far been legally governed by an old law that existed as a federal law, which was passed since 1994; at the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it was applied as a republican law and was valid until today. According to the promoters, the main reason for the adoption of a new law is the need to comply with this law with the adopted Law on Ministrys, the Law on State Administration and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which would systematically regulate the area of transport of precious metals. However, I find the very interesting explanation given by the proposal, which says that one of the main reasons is the creation of legal preconditions for signing the Convention on Control and Marking of objects of precious metals, whose signing would lead to the acceleration of goldmaking as a potentially promising economic branch in the Republic of Serbia. I wonder how suddenly the gentlemen of the Ministry had the idea of developing jewelry and some subtle and fine industries, and they had completely left industry, agriculture and what had been a tradition in the Republic of Serbia for years? Therefore, gentlemen, first of all, you should try to restore these fundamental branches that are the foundation of every country's economy, so that you do such fine things as goldsmithy and the circulation of precious metals. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is divided into nine areas. In the shortest lines, I will try to explain to the citizens of Serbia the main views of our parliamentary group. I'll put the accent on what's kind of a newspaper compared to the existing law. In the opening part of the law, the subject matter of the law, the entities to which the law is applied, or not applicable, is given an explanation of the basic terms used in the law and the competences of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals as the authorities of the administration established by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. In general, a phase stream that should exist in the transport of precious metal objects can be observed in this introductory chapter, which begins by harmonising the subject with the current legal provisions, through assessment of conformity, marking and stamping, and ends with the issue of a list of technical documentation accompanying these items of precious metals. They're in the other head to make a technical request for items of precious metal. There is a demand for fineness, which also implies the fineness of the setting, the coating, if any. The exception to this rule regarding finesse is only gold coins, memorial plaques, convenient gifts and other items made for various jubilee and solemn manifestations, which was also the case in the current law. The most extensive part of the law is the third head, which refers to a conformity assessment. It shall prescribe the obligations of the manufacturer, importer and representative with regard to achieving the necessary consistency, i.e. marking and stamping of items of precious metal. As far as I could see, the newspaper in this head represents the possibility that instead of examining the subjects in the laboratory, consistency is recognised also on the basis of the accompanying technical documentation, if any. In this way, the whole process of establishing consistency can be facilitated. This phase of harmonisation of the subject ends with the award of the manufacturer's mark and the adoption of an appropriate solution by the Directorate, a constitution which deals with such activity. Also, the newspaper is that the purchase of items of precious metal from now on can only be done by the manufacturer of these items. In this way, it is potentially prevented from working wildly in this area, which should again bring, in the extreme line, the protection of consumer interests as end-users of objects from precious metals. The Ministry's obligation to run a register of authorised bodies for examining and stamping cases is prescribed to create equal conditions for all and prevent unfair competition on the market. The following chapters, chapters four, five and eight, are much less than by volume and contain only one member, and relate to the recognition of foreign stamps, fees for testing and stamping items of precious metal, as well as criminal provisions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law. In short, so I don't talk about everything, I'll just tell you what's the point. The resolution minister has the right to recognise foreign stamps on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if the conditions required by us are met. The amount of compensation and payment for the examinations carried out shall be borne by the Government, with the same amount of compensation for both domestic and foreign persons. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, fines from 5,000 to 150,000 dinars for natural and responsible persons, ranging from 10,000 to 500,000 dinars for entrepreneurs, ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 dinars for legal persons. This law also provides a sales space where items of precious metal are held. It is also prescribed to mark and separate these items from non-precious materials, if they are located in that space. It is also prescribed that there are stamp readings in this space if the users are looking for them, and in a visible place there must be an increased image with a stamp, i.e. a solution to the label of the manufacturer, importer or representative, in order for the entire traffic to take legal character. As regards the supervision of the application of this law, supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry or market inspection in respect of the transport of precious metal objects, except in the part of the supervision for which the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals is responsible. Finally, in the last chapter, as is the case with each law to be passed, transitional and final provisions have been given, which particularly highlight several things: deadlines for the adoption of the necessary sublaws for the application of the law, it is concluded that the items already marked and stamped until the adoption of the new law do not have to be re-labelled and stamped, and the dates of entry into force of the new, i.e. the termination of the existing Law on the control of items of precious metals are prescribed. In the shortest lines, these would be the most important general provisions contained in this proposal for a law on precious metals, and as far as the details of this law are concerned, SRS MPs will talk about it on the day of the debate on details. We have submitted eight amendments to this law in total. As far as the structure of the amendments themselves is concerned, it is such that the three amendments are technical, three relate to time limits and two are essential. Once we explain these amendments, the citizens of Serbia will be able to obtain a much clearer picture of the whole of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, I would like to wish you a lot of success in opening the jobs you are announcing by applying and implementing this law, but I would like to give you another well-intentioned advice – yet try to keep the citizens of Serbia’s existing jobs, because you should not forget that in pre-election years similar promises were made by Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic, Mladjan Dinkic, and how the citizens spent their time with these jobs best know themselves. In the end, I must regret that Mrs Kalanovic, the vice president of the government, is not present in the O.R. because, given the fact that we come from the same place, Triestenik, I would say that when there is time, Saturday or Sunday, a little walk through the Trieste flea; all colleagues and colleagues we used to work with together at the Five-year-olds, instead of in the construction bureaus, are on fleas and go from the counter to the counter to survive. Once again, try to save old jobs, and there is time for new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54724	All right, well, don't nostalgic. Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54725	Thank you. Since my debate in time for the authorised representative reached up to the 30th Amendment, I would repeat, because of the absence of the minister, that in the manner of debate, MPs differed in that some of the examples depicted critical tones, and I, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, advanced Serbia-SNS, with concrete remarks and suggestions on how to speak about, I believe, one of the most important system laws and certainly the most important law on this agenda. I believe they will pass on to you, but I will repeat that Article 18 is one of the most significant in this law, where this "breach of a legal personality" should be replaced by "the abuses of a company". I explained the way in which no current practice should occur in the establishment of society, in avoiding the obligations that society creates, the responsibilities of those who gain certain benefits through abuse, but not just members of society, but also management. I'm about to take a chance on what I missed... I believe that you too are often pointed out by those who help us not to reach the EU's target, but to achieve the standards that make us qualified for this European family, to try to avoid what is called abuse of the official position. I would really ask that we do not schedule a special session later so that in the relevant laws we can change the qualification of that part that European law and many countries neither recognise nor understand us when we are trying to solve the problem of abuse, corruption or what is quite defined in this Article 18 — the abuse of a commercial society. I would also say a few words about how you can actually abuse the power of attorney by employment, that is, how a person who is authorized to make certain contracts can harm a third party and that you did not adequately protect third parties from these acts by proposing a law. So some persons, employees, are obliged, by the nature of the job and by the contract of work they signed, to be able, in accordance with the internal act, to damage a third person by misleading him in various ways. This is not a third party's problem that needs to be notified, checked, or knows that the person has misused his power of attorney at work. You must agree with me that in Article 34 after Article 2 you cannot, according to the third person who was safe to highlight that request, exceed the authority. So, if an employee in one company oversteps some of his powers, it has to solve an internal act. This must mean that a person who is obliged to agree with some of his actions or activities, by employment and by work he does, must be resolved within the company, and the company, the company, must respond to whether he hired a security worker, whether he overstepped his authority or misused his position. Now I'm going into the trap of the "abuse of position" formula, but I mean it in a factual, not criminal and legal sense. So, restrictions can be highlighted by third, only unconscious, because there are such relationships in these contractual relationships, with the company being obliged to prove third parties' unconsciousness. But it is the company's obligation, they will agree that the colleagues who are directed to do so take care of their employees, their discipline and to regulate the limits of their powers by an internal act. A third lifeguard must really enjoy legal certainty if it was safe. We've been trying all along, and you yourself pointed out that the aim of this law is to create legal certainty in the business of companies. Here, you're here to fix it. In the case of a prosecution, it is best to leave the company with an opportunity to issue only to the legal person. Now I'm going to explain why. This would result not only in representation, but also in the management of society. So, since the prosecution is intolerable, the procurator cannot give authority to represent and empowerment. The procurator is legally restricted by his prosecutor, and it makes the authorities of the prosecutor completely certain and that the risk to society and trustees is lower in the prosecution than in the representation. By the nature of things, representation makes a physical face. So let's make things easier for the judiciary by not reducing the number of disputed situations but literally disabling, right now, at this point when we're talking about the law. Many colleagues talked about Article 47(2), and I'm going to talk about that doubt about capital, stakes and assets. So, lawyers love to get involved in economists' affairs, like those who are technical professions say they've always been the best government presidents, but we have to admit that yet one part of the doubt has created the profession itself by leaving the property open to this day, and what capital is. That's not questionable for economists, if they're well-intentioned, but if they're not, it can be questionable. You tried to correct that misunderstanding, but you weren't consistent until the end. In Article 47, in Section 2, you also left a mix-up. It is necessary to specify that the stakes paid and entered are not only the assets but also the capital of the society; so we are not talking about later contributions, we are talking about the roles in the establishment and that this is, in fact, the value of the stakes paid, the stakes entered. I ask you not to be vain, but rather to follow your solution from Article 139, which I am giving for the right and on the basis of which I am just making this remark, where you have beautifully and clearly written that society with limited responsibility is a society, I now quote your quote, “in which one or more members have shares in the basic capital of society.” So, in capital, not property. I ask you to remove that only place where an inconceivability could be created by accepting the amendment. The constructive remarks I make on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, here, I also confirm by this example. Some colleagues spoke of the necessary responsibility to carry together the costs of the procedure in Article 59. I think that's totally fine, that's the attitude we represent, and that's why I wouldn't explain it again. What I want to point out is to define a personal interest in the conclusion of certain business in society and try not to allow this personal interest to be misused. I fully support the solution in the law, but do you think that abuse of personal interest can happen when a contract is terminated, not only when it is concluded? You know, someone can do damage to society or to a third party, and when he's personally interested in breaking up a lease, for example, so I ask you to take care of it the way we did in Article 65(1) and (3), we have defined that you should negotiate with the one with which you have concluded a contract even on the termination of legal work, the way that this job ends, but also on the possibility of an extension. I don't want to remind you of some examples, such as "Satellite", overpowering an employee or a man who has a function, who signed a contract in the hotel room and then fell to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I want to remind you of the possibility that when a contract is terminated, if it is a person who is connected or has a personal interest in breaking up a contract, it should be subject to reviewing what is greater harm for a company, and whether there is a benefit. Why don't we put one of those options in the law at this point? Here, in order to leave my colleagues for a while, I'm just going to make one more principled remark, as far as the art is concerned. In 67 and 74, let me give you, in terms of one illogical and unnecessary proof of abstract category, that the person on whose burden of ignorance is to prove that something did not know. Here, for example, in article 67, you say that it is an obligation for a third party to prove that they did not know or could not know of the existence of personal interest at the time of the conclusion of a legal transaction or taking a legal action. There are colleagues from many professions, so let them help me. It is very difficult to prove negative facts, especially what only a third party should prove to an abstract category that something did not know or could not know. Tell me, how is this going to apply in practice? If the burden in this case were on the third party, it would allow society to cancel legal work out of its own interests. Take care of it. So it's not about language formulation or whether it's possible to prove abstractly in philosophical terms, it's about someone who can abuse and bring third parties into a uncertain position because society could always claim that a third party had to know the existence of that personal interest. I really claim that one such member of the law could not in practice apply. I will complete my constructive objections regarding the amendment of the law that we need with the story of Article 74 where we propose a solution different from yours, which should not be subject to the protection of persons who comply with the legal obligation to notify the competent authority of the act punishable by law. So society cannot question whether the person to be notified by the competent authority of an illegal act did so in good faith or in bad faith. You wrote that in the bill. When something is illegal, whoever finds out is obliged to report it to the competent authority and it doesn't matter if he had, and what motive. The goal is to comply with the legal provision not to let a criminal act happen and to prevent it. In this case, motives are completely irrelevant. Here, I'll finish with this, with the wish that of these 49 amendments... Indeed, each of them was done very seriously, studioically, a parallel practice was treated, and the interest in getting a better law on companies was above all else. I'd like you to appreciate that through careful consideration of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54726	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54727	Thank you. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, I absolutely agree with you and I think we have the same goal here, which is that this system law regulates an area that is essential for the functioning of the economy and that allows legislation to deal with certain problems that arise in business in a legal way. I'm sorry I wasn't in the first part when you were making certain amendments, but I have to tell you that each of the amendments will be carefully considered. You know I'm not vain in any way. Just because you're the promoter of certain amendments doesn't mean in any way that they'll be apriors rejected if they make sense. I have to tell you, like this at the first ball, that what you said about the members of 47th and 65th makes sense, but we'll take a look. As for members 66, 67 and 74, we need to check that out. As for Article 18, if I understand my team's lawyers correctly, it refers to founders, not management. Anyway, what do I want to tell you? There will be discussion of details, we will consider amendments. I say, like this at the first ball, for me as an economist, what you said about Art. In 47 and 65, it really makes sense, as regards the treatment of assets and capital, that is, the role, so we'll really consider it carefully. We will see each other, hopefully, and next week when there will be a debate on details; before that, as Government, we will declare amendments. Anyway, thank you for the really professional and detailed amendments. I'm glad that such important laws as others, but this one where my ministry is a proposing, are being analysed in this way and that you and the other MPs are getting extremely constructive proposals from you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to agree with my colleagues, there is an extremely significant law ahead of us, but also to express the dissatisfaction of the Serbian Progressive Party because this law has not been passed before or at least amended and complemented by the law currently in force, because it seems to me that there have been a lot of failures in this area, that in symbiosis with the Law on Privatisation, this law has allowed us to lose tens of thousands of jobs in the past few years, that we have a large number of businesses in which privatisation has failed and that in the right way there is neither action, nor that we have one better quality when it comes to corporate governance. So, the fact is that the current law allowed a serious concentration of capital when it comes to large owners, that minority owners were totally in a subordinate position, that abuses were large, but that this government unfortunately did not find them appropriate, and even previous ones, that changes were possible to prevent all that was happening, but allowed small shareholders to be in a fully subordinate position and that our economy was largely tycounized, I would say. Unfortunately, I think that this law, no matter how significant it is, is not enough to significantly improve the situation in our economy. Our economy has a lot of problems. Our government mostly deals with macro-economics, so it's very little going down to the micron. I think we have a big problem when it comes to the application of this law and when it comes to the situation on the capital market, it's extremely shallow. We have very few companies on the document. We have very little financial resources on the capital market. Portfolio investments in previous years were negative. So the capital from the financial market has retreated. It seems to me that your story of market price shares does not drink water and that even small shareholders and all those who want to protect their property and their share of much more space should seek in some estimates of relevant institutions to eventually get to the right price of shares, because we do not seem to have any chance of establishing a real price of action with such a capital market. There's no need to remind myself there's been a lot of manipulation in buying out actions when it comes to small shareholders. Generally, we have very weak institutions and that's a big problem. We have weak regulatory bodies and we have a major problem with the legal system, with the judiciary today in Serbia. There is simply no respect for small shareholders in Serbia, there is not enough corporate culture. The relationship between society and small shareholders is catastrophic. I am obliged in some way to mention in this debate the small shareholder "Beka", who owns 60% of the company, which is under the circumstances, I would say first of all by neglecting the government and some illegal decisions, taken into bankruptcy and liquidation. Those small shareholders had 60% share. At the expense of all creditors, paying all the interest, 23,000,000 euros remained on the account of the company. We and today have a bankruptcy procedure that has not been completed, we have a bankruptcy manager who in four years has managed to secure for himself about 300,000 euros; we have an Agency for the Licensing of Accountants who receive very fine amounts on the basis of the traffic that the company achieves. The impression is that today's ownership of small shareholders over companies is not desirable in Serbia. That's what's wrong. That's what's been following us for years. It seems to me that neither this law nor in any way will be able to stop the concentration of ownership, and in that section relating to small SNS shareholders, there are a lot of problems. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, I'm afraid that the interest in public stock companies after this law will be very small. Like I said, we're still going to have a very high concentration of ownership, and it's going to continue to decrease the number of owners in stock companies. Obviously, with poor regulatory and institutional bodies, the only way to protect the ownership of smaller shareholders is internal control. In that sense, I think you've made some moves in this law. When it comes to dealing with small shareholders and lowering the thresholds when it comes to certain topics that are being put on the agenda, I think it has been done quite well and that one highly qualified majority for a decision that appears in individual members is also commendable. But I'd say there are a lot of gaps when it comes to minority shareholders' rights. What bothers the Serbian Progressive Party and what the law should improve is the conflict of interest, when it comes to transactions with connected persons. It seems to me that in this sense you could significantly increase legal regulation, commit all those in the leadership who are potentially in conflict of interest to make it public, to give up their decision. I think an independent assessment of the price of the stock must have priority over market value because of the already mentioned problematic situation in the capital market. I think that legal protection must be fully guaranteed by minority and small shareholders, and in this sense we have a big problem, because normally the costs of that legal protection deter small shareholders from entering such a court procedure. It had to be regulated through the text of this law. As for leadership, the committee, the influence of minority shareholders on decision-making is quite small, primarily comes down to the congregation and the possibility of acting through the congregation. As far as I know, today in the world, it is increasingly going to be the voice of minority shareholders through various committees to be much stronger in this election process. I think, in general, the big problem of this law is property. Property is something that hasn't been defined in the previous law; it's something that, I believe, the good part, and our transition doesn't work because the ownership structure isn't transparent. I don't think that, under the pressure of large capital, it's going into a transparent ownership structure, that the public is thus prevented from recognising in many cases the conflict of interest, monopolies, cartel agreements, that it is necessary that one society in transition has a clear and transparent ownership structure that all citizens could control. In that sense, if a clear ownership structure were provided, we could significantly reduce corruption in our economy, which is quite significant. The law was supposed to contain institutes that would oblige large shareholders to disclose ownership structure data. Shares of natural persons must have priority in the law and in the registration of companies themselves. As far as information is concerned, we have a series of complaints about the classification of information. I think that's where you reduced the rights of small shareholders. Your justification applies to the fact that there have been too many court proceedings where small shareholders have sought and expected their rights to be exercised in relation to leadership. I think that in this case, it should have gone to one system where the information collected in one company was classified as important, so on the basis of the importance of the information itself, it would have determined the rights of small shareholders and all others interested in such information to be available to them or not. (President: Time. ) What was a major problem in the previous law, which was not resolved in this law, is the fact that there is a lot of information from the balance sheet items, but that the information concerning the non-balance sheet items was not fully available to small and minority shareholders. All in all, there will be an opportunity to discuss this law and when there is a debate on details, and I hope, as Mrs Tabakovic said, that at least part of these remarks will be adopted and that we will eventually come up with some quality text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-10-0.u54729	I thank you, Mr Anticu. Since there are candidates on the lists, but MP groups have wasted their time, I'm asking if anyone who hasn't used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a company law, a draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies and a bill on the control of items of precious metal. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Mr. Kiric, I thank you and your associates. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs registered in the electronic system, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, which means that there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the meetings of MPs Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic, Nikola Krpic, Sasa Dujovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the principled search of the 3rd item of the agenda next to the representative, Dr. Dejan Šoškovic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, I have also called for the meetings to be attended by: Mira Erić Jović, vice governor of the National Bank, Radica Dimitrijevic, Deputy Director General of the Centre for Consumers of Financial Services at the National Bank, Mirko Petrovic, Director General of the Directorate for Legal Affairs at the National Bank and Vladimir Petrovic, senior expert associate at the National Bank. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the User of Financial Services (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the National Bank of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be distributed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, to the SRS Parliamentary Group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group G 17 28 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds, to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica Group 24 minutes, to the SPS-JS 18 minutes, to the MP group LDP 14 minutes and 24 seconds, to the Parliament group New Serbia 10 minutes and 48 seconds, to the sending group of minorities eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for the word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised on this agenda point: MP Zoran Kasalovic (for the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group), MP Donka Banovic (Employment Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica), Mr Milorad Buha (SRS) and MP Branko Ljiljak (Employment Group ZES). In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of the proposing Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the National Bank, want a word? Yeah. Just sign in. Here, you have a word.
