ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62060	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's Cards to be inserted into the Parliament's Units of the Electronic Voting System, to determine whether there are any conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I find that there are 86 MPs in the electronic system and another number of MPs present in the hall, so there are conditions for the session of the National Assembly. I remind the Members of Parliament Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states to Member 1 that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the bodies on which they are located, which he needs to exercise the functions of MPs of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President or the Authorised Representative of the Parliamentary Group may exercise his right under Article 1 at the session of the National Assembly orally in one address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62061	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, after a while, about every three months, I show up here asking the same question, which is -- who in this country can order the Ministry of Education and Science to return money that, without any basis, holds some kind of budget position? However, I will not repeat the argument, it has already been said several times, it is 1.575.000 dinars, which the company "Vojvoda Transport", from Vrbasa, paid to the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Checks in an attempt to establish a college that dropped out in 2008. It's been three years and this is already a question for the prime minister. So, who in this country is powerful enough and has some authority to ask people who are already asking questions for the sixth time, and the seventh time they're sending a request -- return the money that is baselessly frozen at the expense of the Ministry of Education and Science. I have to mention, by the way, that the Ministry of Education and Science is still responding to questions and businesses whose money is held by, apologizing for not being able to meet, in my opinion, one notorial and obvious obligation, which is to bring back others, because they constantly run into obstacles in the form of the Treasury administration, in terms of a variety of financial, how can I say, as some of the only recognized sizes which are simply the most simple accounting operation not able to do, to re-write that amount and return to the payer. Questions that have been raised by DRI both orally and in writing, other than taping on the shoulder and verbal promises that these will be dealt with, of course, remain empty and incomplete. It is obvious that DRI and Mr. Sretenovic do not have a full picture of their jurisdiction. In addition to supervision, punishment and media address, they probably have that part of jurisdiction, which is – aman, help to resolve something this notorious. State the path and ask for self-recognition of accounting sizes from various and diverse vault administrations, from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science and Education, and probably from the DRI itself to include little gray cells, because I can't believe there's a way to keep other people's money, which is baseless, just come back. Another question I have to ask because it's very important and it's at the right moment and it's very exact, it's addressed to the Ministry of Education and Science. The question is, how much money is planned for teaching assistants, for children with developmental and disability disorders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62062	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62063	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last Tuesday I asked the Ministry of Defence a question concerning the eviction of certain persons who have escaped from the secluded republics, and they are located in the premises of the military institution of Dedinja and I asked if it was a mandatory military institution to respect the decisions of the competent courts. This time, it is a similar question and I ask whether the military institution of Dedinje is obliged to respect the decisions of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. I will read how the first basic court's solution – a temporary measure is determined, so it is forbidden to order, request or suspend the supply of the Dedinja, Zvezdar, Velimir Rajic 2 in Belgrade, and thus to heat energy, electricity, running water, as well as to order, request or execute the suspension of waste disposal operations from the same facility. The temporary measure remains in force until the finalisation of this litigation procedure, and the legal remedy says no specific appeal is allowed against this solution. Despite such a solution to the First Basic Court, the VU "Dedinje" has ruled out electricity, water, heating and brought these families, which have been ill for years, in an extremely invisible situation. I'm not getting into who's guilty here. It is very important and I ask – if we do not respect and the competent institutions do not respect the court's decisions, then why do we have laws? When the proceedings are completed and by decision of the competent courts, let such a decision be carried out. Until then, it is time for the particularly competent institutions to respect the decisions of the courts. I would ask the Department of Defense to influence and lift this measure carried out by the VU "Deaths" by removing electricity, water and heating from these families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62064	Before I give my word to the next National MP, who wants to exercise his right to Article 286, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I shall inform the National Assembly that the start of the scheduled session is delayed by an hour, a minute, an hour after the debate is completed, when we will schedule an hour and hour, that is, the day of voting with the hour, and when the vote is completed, then the session will be scheduled instead of 11.00 hours. So today, anyway. On the basis of Article 87, too, that today, if necessary, we will work after 1800 hours. MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62065	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the LDP, I will ask two questions, both concerning current events, without any intention of using this situation, or this position for any politicisation. I think the Serbian government, and above all, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health today, must give us completely unequivocal answers about the circumstances and all the consequences that followed yesterday's event in Jagodina. In public there were completely conflicting information about Jagodina Mayor Dragan Markovic Palma's testimony, the testimony of children, very confusing statements coming from the Health Center in Jagodina and finally, the teacher, the teaching staff present in the public. There is very different information about the fact that it is practically paper advertising that is framed by the wires, as some teachers testify, obviously in fear of the atmosphere that is ruling in Jagodina, to the testimony of children that it is actually heavy metal ads and the situation where their lives have been threatened. We will discuss, on another occasion and elsewhere, whether political abuse is involved, whether public resources have been used for political promotion and political campaign purposes, but what is crucial at this point is to provide concrete answers to what all the circumstances have followed and the coffees are its medical, psychological and all other consequences. The second issue concerns a topic that was opened here several days ago, last week in a budget debate, and then, unfortunately, as many other important topics went to the margin, suppressed and more or less by a radical event that has recently marked politics in Serbia. It is a question – what are the debts of employers to the Republic Fund PIO? Mr. Colakovic talked about it last week. Meanwhile, more or less official data appeared saying that the debt of all employers in this country to the PIO Fund, which makes it practically in a state of latent liquidity, about 230 billion dinars, so two billion and 300m euros, and parallel to that of practically 90% of the debts, or 90% of the disorderly debtors, paying contributions to their workers related to what we call the state sector, so public enterprises, state-owned enterprises and the rest of the social enterprises. These are great figures for all citizens so that they can first understand the situation of these debts. It is about the amount that is sufficient for the six-month payment of all pensions in this country or the same amount that you will give to that fund, which is in a difficult situation, through the adoption of budget rebalance today. What is my direct question and what I ask of the prime minister and the government of this country and the management of the PIO Fund is to provide me with a list of the 50 largest debtors that currently owe the largest amounts to the Republic Fund of PIO, so that we can have a complete picture of where the debt is the essence, i.e. indifferences that exist in the PIO Fund, which is why so generous must be the subsidies of the state budget and finally clarify the story of whether Serbia's problem is privatisation and evil capitalism, or the center of indifference, the centre of the problem with giant public service, for party-led public enterprises. Then many other answers in our economic and political life will be clearer to us, and this idea of absolute party management of public resources, i.e. public sector and the fact that today or in a few days the gas in this country is accumulated by 10 or 15%, while the company that is a monopoly on that market is always giving issued state subsidies or at least issued guarantees for liquid liquidity loans. Therefore, a list of the largest debtors and the debt structure that exist at this time towards the PIO Fund and a clear answer to the question of what measures will be taken towards those who do not fulfil their obligations. The prime minister's announcement that a recommendation will be made, or that it will go in the direction of amending the law is certainly not enough. This will not help people who do not have an internship or have enormous problems when they retire in any way, regardless of whether they end up in criminal proceedings or possibly in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62066	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Government a question - do you government gentlemen have a parliamentary majority and why yesterday's topic that was extremely important for Serbia instead of 10.00 hours, 11.00 hours, starts at 15.00 hours a session and until then is not provided quorum? What exactly is this about? Why don't some points that have passed the assembly procedure vote? You gentlemen from the ruling coalition are having fun while today in Kosovo all Serbs are at barricades and will fight downstairs for their rights. Here in Belgrade, the president of Serbia holds a session yesterday, he becomes a regional leader, of course, and holds a symposium called – the new energy future of Southeast Europe. That takes three days. The other day in Arangelovac, a large set, 100 biggest businessmen in Southeast Europe, a new era, etc. But there's no one to say anything -- what did you do with the EU, with America, with whom you negotiated, with Eulex? How come Eulex down there who's wearing uniforms now? What does that mean? What is the future of Serbs in northern Kosovo and do you have any concept of how to solve it? You've got everything in the way. Here, today we're listening to a lot of debates. You also hold a variety of exercises, react how you react to many small things, and not this huge state issue to resolve. Is Resolution 1244 still in force? Does the Security Council have any authority or none? Should his decisions be respected? Does the congregation declaration apply to anything and is this government respecting them? Are the Assembly resolutions and everything that has been passed in this House in force? Why can't the negotiators and the president himself be heard now, to give instructions? Why don't we have a meeting so we can all hear what it's all about, but this people in northern Kosovo are left to themselves, to defend their bodies today, to defend part of the territory, to defend Resolution 1244, which they then accepted? I repeat, I asked the prime minister a question and I never got an answer – what are the six points you announced pompously and said they solve the fate of Serbs in Kosovo? And that's why you allowed Eulex to enter and you said that these six points are crucial and very favourable to Serbs, that Resolution 1244 is respected. It literally states that between Serbia and Kosovo there is no customs, there is no border and that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, that the administrative territory protected by international forces. However, there is no such thing today. There, by force trying to establish a limit, to break the resolution, to break everything that was agreed upon. Now I ask, where are those six of your points that were crucial, what were the solutions for Serbia? Where is Vuk Jeremic, where is Boris Tadic, where is Mirko Cvetkovic, to turn to the public and tell the Serbs in northern Kosovo what to do and how to behave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62068	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62069	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is a very specific issue for the president of the Assembly, i.e. for the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, and that is - whether, in the coming period, it will take some steps to keep the rules of procedure and to ask questions, when it is determined to ask questions, which are of interest to better life for Serbian citizens, rather than to use day-to-day political events to collect cheap political points for their sick ambition, to enter power one day. By the way, let's just say, before I get an answer to that question from the president of the assembly, let me answer some colleagues from some MP group who are so concerned about what happened yesterday in Jagodina, to say that the latest information from this morning, that all the children have left the hospital, that they have very minor physical injuries, and that the children will be in school tomorrow. So much for that event. Moreover, yesterday was Jagodina's Day of Liberation of Jagodina from Fascism, and I guess it was, and always before, years ago, some events were held to mark the historic event for the city of Jagodina and in general for Serbia, because Serbia was also freed from fascism, mostly in October 1944. This year, unfortunately, there was an easy incident, which did not leave any consequences at the city stadium in Jagodina. Thank God the children are alive and well and will continue to go to school. There's something else I want to say. Many here talk, and especially from one parliamentary group, how children are allegedly abused in some political and religious customs, and not abused children, when in some cities where most other religions live, go and wear skirts to some dignitaries of other religions, then children are not abused into religious needs or other needs. So if the children went out to greet Patriarch Irineus, who came to Jagodina 80 years later, they must have the right to go out on the street and greet their patriarch. Is that only making it impossible for children of Serbian nationality, i.e. members of the Serbian Orthodox faith? There's one more thing to say. I would ask colleagues from other political parties, especially from one who has so many big necks that they always see what happens in other corners and worry about what others do, that they worry a little more about where they have power. In Serbia, almost no one has given the right to manage local self-governments, but somewhere where they at least participate in local self-governments, to give a little more credit to themselves, by proposing in these local self-governments to care for children, to care for the socially endangered, to care for the sick, to care for all those who do not have enough means to survive, not just to worry about what others are doing, to criticise successful people in Serbia, and thus to collect political points. So I'd like to ask the President of the Assembly to stick to the Rules of Procedure. There's something else I need to say. I would suggest that the President of the Assembly, as the first among the equal, after the next elections, determines that we now pass the law and that every MP before entering the Assembly, undergo an alcohol test, a drug test and that he is examined in neuropsychiatrics, to see if he can perform the function of MPs, because we still bring very important laws here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62070	If I understood you well now, and that question that you asked yourself, you gave an answer through a completely wide procedure, like this, renaissance guy. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62071	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, I am sure that all well-intentioned citizens, including us in this room, are worried about what will happen today at KIM. Namely, as the public and citizens know, and we here in the hall, KFOR has announced for the day that, by any means likely, by violent means, God forbid, the barricades that Serbs set after July 25th when KFOR unilaterally, but also unequivocally, came out of its mandate and took sides, participated in the establishment of customs duties at the crossings of Brnjak and Jarinje. It's a bit of a concern that the state is keeping quiet. It's even more worrying when the state is talking about it. I will just look back at yesterday's statement by President Tadic, who said Serbia will not give up the legitimate interests of the Serbian people and the state in Kosovo, and that in the context of today's events, he, as president of the Republic, has direct communication with our citizens in Kosovo and has a way to send them a message. I would like to remind the president, this parliament, of citizens that we have legitimate representatives of the Serb people, i.e. legitimate institutions, such as local self-government, such as the head of the district and all other institutions, as well as other parts of Serbia. A serious state and a serious president communicates through institutions and does not send messages to citizens, in a way that no one can figure out how, in fact, the President of the Republic sends messages to and to whom. This is actually inadmissible and talks about the intrusiveness and the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, towards the part of the territory, i.e. towards KIM. The question I want to ask, I'm asking the prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. I want to get an answer, not to repeat the situation, that when I ask this question, and when the government, the authorities, the prime minister is obliged to respond to the MPs, they do not. I hope that the prime minister will now favour the DSS parliamentary group and give an answer to the next question. That's short. Why hasn't the list been made on KIM? What prevented the state authorities, and in the context of a statement by the President of the Republic that we will defend, or that we will not give up our legitimate state interests, what prevented the institutions of the Republic of Serbia from making a census on KIM? The story also has its concrete consequences before the official results are published. The director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Mr. Dragan Vukmirovic, says today that the orientation result is what was expected, about 7.4 million listed citizens. He says it is in line with the estimates of the Republic Statistics Office. I will remind the public, this parliament, that in 2002 a list was made on KIM and that about 120,000 Serbs were listed there. Now I ask the question -- what are these estimates and what kind of assessment was done by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, if it did not calculate the Serbs at KIM? This is a disastrous statement by the Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. Furthermore, the director of the Republic Statistics Institute says the census has been successfully completed. From these words of the Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, we see how the state gave up, but he certainly did not do it on his own, but did it because he was allowed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to decide not to make a list on KIM. We all know how important the list is and we all know what the consequences are when the list is not completed. For this reason, I once again ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic a concrete question, to decidently state the reasons under which law, on the basis of which factors did the government of the Republic of Serbia give up the census in Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62072	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is from Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia are well-known to the problem of the homeless. Unfortunately, this is a problem that virtually none of the previous governments had any interest in, or any of the previous governments for 20 years did anything concrete for these people and did not enable them to do what many laws guaranteed, which is to become homeowners and finally solve their housing issues. At present, some 1,000 families live in collective centers. In Belgrade, it's about 650 families. These are the so-called military single hotels, although only the Hotel "Bristol" can be officially called a hotel, while the other military single hotels, such as Velimir Rajic and, for example, the one on the street of Cara Uros 63 in Belgrade, were actually military buildings that were classic administrative buildings, where offices were located, so that the army would then start in the 1990s when the need to solve the housing problems of a certain number of people, which it could not solve otherwise, was practically you, as I said, office premises overnight changed changed to residential ones. Tables of titles have been placed - military single hotel, etc., although these people are not essentially provided with the minimum living conditions. There was no bathroom, it was a shared bathroom. And then someone got one office, someone got two, someone went over it, some managed to build themselves some kind of bathroom or kitchen, but until today, the fact remains that these spaces are extremely unconditional. Of course, given the status of those to say rooms, they couldn't possibly buy it, sell it, change it, do anything, but were practically doomed to spend years in that space and wait for whether and when their fate would be resolved. In Belgrade, as I said, there are several of these hotels and a particular reason why I am now asking the question is that the Ministry of Defence and the Military Institute of Dedinje started, by breaking the law, to drive these people out of those rooms where they lived for years. I am specifically talking about the military single hotel on Velimir Rajic Street number 2. Now I'm going to make and give you a small retrospective of that. So, as early as March 2011, the first provisional measure was adopted by the First Basic Court in Belgrade to prohibit the defendant from Serbia – the Ministry of Defence – from using and making use of certain rooms to the Military Institute of Dedinje, especially to initiate or implement the coercive move of prosecutors from these rooms. It has been established that this temporary measure will continue until the judicial end of the procedure. Since the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence and the Military Institute did not respect the court's decision, they sent a notice to these unfortunate people, who were expelled from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the like, that they would exclude water, electricity, hot water, electricity, etc. When they received the threat, they asked for a new interim measure at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. On 13 October, therefore, several days ago, this temporary measure was adopted, which says – it is prohibited to ask the accused Republic of Serbia to request or suspend the supply of facilities to the military single hotel Zvezdaar, Velimir Rajic 2) in Belgrade, with heat energy, electricity, running water, electricity, etc., as well as to order, request or suspend the business of taking garbage from the same facility. That didn't mean anything to the Department of Defense. I have a memo that says – the Republic of Serbia - the Ministry of Defence - the Department of Material Resources - the Military Institute "Dedenje", directed to the KBC of Zvezda, through which these people received heat energy, where it is said - the Military Institute "Dededenje" has closed the facility "Dedenje" VSK Zvestara, Hadji Mustafina bd). The facility has been evicted, which is not true, which stops the need to deliver heat, heat, contract team and team. He says – we ask for the termination of the contract at the conclusion of October 1st 2011. So it's obvious that there are several provisional measures brought by the court. Obviously, there is a complete ignoring of the civil structures of the government by the Ministry of Defense. I ask the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and I ask Mr Sutanovac – is there a civilian control of the Army in Serbia and will they respect the decisions of a court that has not yet been respected? There are people who are all over 60 years old, who are sick. There are severe patients there, and they now live in impossible conditions. This may be the last question – if the Republic of Serbia continues towards its citizens and military pensioners, for homeless people to behave like this, is there any difference between Ustashas who thus threw the same army out of the barracks in the early 1990s and those who now exist and work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62074	We continue to work because there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zeljko Tomic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, besides the representative of the promoter, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, called for the sittings to be attended by Dusan Nikezic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Višnja Kuzmanovic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance – Public Debt Administration. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND PURPOSES YOU have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milorad Buh, together Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanović and together Zlata Đerić and Srdjan Spasojevic, as well as an amendment that is based on Article 157 of Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62075	The essence of the problem as a whole is that of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejected the amendment, and thus confirmed its commitment, i.e. a policy of constant and unreasonable borrowing. So, what we've shown countless times so far is that the state and the economy and how much they owe, and that's, according to the latest data, something like 24 billion euros. What is a problem for the state of Serbia is certainly that it has no regulated economy, no local sources and no production for export purposes. Of course, then the result of all this is 24 billion euros in total debt. Of which, the state owes about a third of that amount. The problem is that the participation of exports in debt is almost three times the annual service of external debt, which accounts for 40% of exports, and should not exceed one quarter, etc. So, to be clear, because of the public, public, or government debt is nothing more than an obligation that will have to be paid by all its citizens, in one way or another. It is obvious that this government, instead of some essential reforms, solves problems by borrowing. It is until there is a motive for truly essential reforms and savings. What should also be pointed out is that the government increased public debt by about five billion euros during its term of office. Obviously, when we really come to a serious debt payout problem, then perhaps reforms will be considered. What we have pointed out countless times, and we think it is completely wrong, is that all these borrowings have been used, not in infrastructure projects, but in covering the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62076	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62077	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to Article 3. I asked for his expropriation and explained the reasons. One reason is that this way will allow the finance minister that, in situations where there is a possibility in local self-government, there are certain obligations, but managers in local self-government and territorial autonomy do not want to carry out certain obligations for their known reasons. It's about original law. The original law has no one's right to disturb. If territorial autonomy and local self-government are provided for by law and the Constitution the right to use certain funds as they define it by their normative acts and financial regulations, no one, nor the finance minister, can deny them that right. Here, you are allowing the Minister that he can disrupt this right in a way to suspend the implementation of certain obligations in the Republic of Serbia's budget and to make a practical peace on behalf of territorial, as you say here territorial autonomy, or local self-government, it settles those obligations. This is impossible with the constitutional basis and the Law on the Budgetary System, because it is the original right to the original means of territorial autonomy and local self-government and no one has the right to suspend that right. The fact that certain executive bodies do not carry out their obligations in those units is a second basis and should be treated on another legal basis, not suspending their original right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62078	Thank you, Mr. Buha. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle in particular, the Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milorad Buha and together Zlata Đerić and Srdjan Spasojevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62079	For the sake of the public, I will read your proposal, which is presented in Article 2, and you will say, "When immovableity is given in the state and the use of the leaser, based on the financial lease agreement, the property tax payer is the recipient of the lease." My amendment goes the other way – that the property tax payer is a leaser. First of all, there is a constitutional foothold, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly states who are the payers of taxes, contributions, taxis etc. As a rule, they are owners, bearers of economic, financial sovereignty over certain rights and certain things, and it is appropriate to be a leaser because it is common practice. I'm going to mention a few legal regulations in the field of tax policy, where you solved it that way. Let's just say, with the Realty Tax Act, the owner who didn't pass the right pays the tax, regardless of whether the contract can define it as a buyer. Let's just say, with the property tax, there's always the owner. Why are you putting a leaser in this situation? It's obvious this isn't your solution. This bill was not written by the law. These are lobbyists from the losing house who suggested you, you put it into a legal project. You're gonna have a lot of trouble with this. Why? Because today the recipient of the lising is one, tomorrow the other, etc. What's a constant? Constanta's a leaser, a leaser, and she's paying for it. It is far easier, from the point of view of taxation, to tax the lease of houses that are real owners, because of the records, because of the control of tax collection, etc. It's obvious that you have to accept what a particular lobby tells you, in this case it's lobbying house...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62080	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, since I had a little problem with my card earlier and wanted to report to this amendment, I think you'll allow me just for a moment. The government has accepted the amendment, but because of Serbian citizens, let me say something short. It's very interesting that New Serbia has taken one amendment that is very good, so I'll go back to it, because we have plenty of time. So the government accepted an amendment to Article 37(2), which says: "local authorities can be in debt by taking credit or broadcasting long-term securities of value (municipal bonds) on the open financial market". As the proposed amendments and additions to the law in Article 36 are the addition of Article 6 which provides for the possibility of borrowing units of territorial autonomy by broadcasting long-term charters of the value of the opinion we are required to abolish the restrictive provision laid down in Article 37(2) of the Law, which provides that only the Republic of Serbia and the financial institution may appear as purchasers of these securities. The amendment-proposed solution is aimed at funding local self-government projects to include the largest round of investors, in the form of a public-private partnership discussed in the new Public Property Act and thus trying, as far as possible, to live, especially on the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, in a situation where the institution, such as the Belgrade Stock Exchange, is practically on its knees. With a single amendment, the new Serbia has, in practice, made it possible for local self-government to implement something in life. It's not enough just certain quasi-political decisions to transfer a lot to the locals, e.g. Taking tax on property. This is one way to give local self-government the possibility of wider business. We are pleased that the government has accepted this life amendment. I think Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic will agree to this. Otherwise, let me go back to the amendment. In Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which refers to Article 37(4) after saying "in the time of" the word "ten" is "eight". This is the one amendment we wanted to cut from 10 to eight days. Maybe someone will say it's only two days. This and with an earlier proposal and with that proposal, in principle, works very poorly. The reasons - in legal life in the Republic of Serbia figure two general deadlines when it comes to taking over certain legal works or proceedings before the competent authorities and institutions. These are the deadlines of eight or 15 days, regardless of the fact that the existing Law in Article 37 provides for a period of 10 days for individual institutions to provide the relevant tax authority with the information necessary to determine the tax liability, which is otherwise not respected in practice, as I said. We believe that when it comes to a public notebook as a new body that is introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia right now to verify the documents and signatures, it is more comprehensive to prescribe an eight-day period for the tax authority to establish the tax liability in time and deliver a solution to an interested person whose ultimate interest it is. I think the government had room to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62082	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the Bills and in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on mandatory security in SAPORE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanović and Sreto Peric on the bill. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Sir, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fundamental feature of this government, which is being assisted by the selfless and congregational majority, is that it violates the Constitution and the Law. Here's an example of where the 2009 Transport Security Act was set up, that a guarantee fund should be set up to start on 11 October 2011. You are proposing here that the law enters the law of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. You are in violation of the Constitution, the constitution is clearly specified when an act adopted in the Assembly comes into force, and you have stated here that there are no reasons why it is urgent that this law be adopted and that the law should enter into force sooner. Just to remind you, it's not worth reminding you, to remind the citizens of Serbia, and if they know it well, today is October 18th, 2011. The guarantee fund was due to begin on 11 October 2011. It's no longer worth it. You're too late. You can now say that the law came into force in January 2011. You are unable to do things with regulation, let alone tomorrow to ensure a better and happier future for the citizens of Serbia. How are you going to solve KIM barricade problems now? You cooked nice, and you have no solution for any practical burning and difficult problem. It is time for you to think more seriously about Serbian citizens, to get serious, that the trust they have given you, we are not now going into how and how and how you have used everything in the election campaigns, what has made you beautiful and decorated, but when you have come, you should at least partially respond to the citizens and they feel that they have a government in Serbia. Like this, you'll be remembered only for fraud and for your incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62084	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for A.D. BELGRADE ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE THE COMMERCIAL BANK A.D. BELGRADE You have received an amendment submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to the bill. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62085	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Djelic, a few days ago, Mr Krasic, when we spoke on the principle of Serbia's new borrowing, said that you are running a fiscal suicide policy for Serbia. We are here during the principle debate, after which the media reported it, heard Minister Milutin Mrkonjic's statement that Serbia is not a re-indebted country. We are him as a man who is trying to carry out work and projects in his portfolio, first of all, as he always emphasizes, because it is his basic profession, understood, but on the other hand, you are today truly a relevant person to give answers and that your statements under responsibility as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister are being transferred to the media and that we see whether they are contradictory of what the NBS Governor has been talking about. The governor of the NBS on 11 May this year, so Mr. Dejan Soskovic said that Serbia is not an overindebted country, that we cannot possibly be caught by the wave of this, produced by America and the West, so-called. The global economic crisis, that the financial policy is stable, that 80% of the social product in the total amount measured by Serbia's external debt is not something to worry about, that a few days ago, when this new debt package of 140m euros came to the Serbian Assembly, and this is what we are discussing at this moment about the refinance of the 2010 loan for the project Stepe Stepa Stepanovic, the same governor, I quote: "Serbia has to take care of how it is committed, because it has reached a limit after which it will have to enter the red debt zone," and we claim that you have crossed those borders long ago. Then Soskic said he was taking care of how the economy works and that only by increasing productivity and growth in production and exporting will he be able to get away with it, now I'm paraphrasing Mr. Šoškovic a little bit, from this difficult situation where he found himself. Please explain to Mr Djelic, in a situation where, by all parameters that do not invent Serbian radicals, we are only telling reality and telling citizens, unlike you, the truth in the face. So these are data that exist in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the city of Belgrade, of all cities in Serbia. First, our foreign trade trade, we talked about it a few days ago, with the Russian Federation is disastrous for Serbia and Serbia is in a huge loss compared to what it was meant to get. On the other hand, these interest rates and these conditions under which Serbia is in debt, and indeed you and yourself, Mr Djelic, by coming in 2000, are now one thing that one day will have to do, we will do everything to replace you from power as soon as possible, to take responsibility for monetary policy and for the functioning of the entire state system, but to happen, as the British and their finance ministers are looking for, because they want to get out of this whole situation that is being handled by the EU, that someone in this country declares bankruptcy. You're still breaking in, you're taking loans that, this one to refinance this one project, which are extremely unfavourable and which, through such a difficult situation where citizens are individually over-indebted, make it even more difficult for this country to function normally. In Serbia, people are doing business now, and I am responsible for that, and ask anyone who does a fair job, of course you can't ask Miskovic and Beka, your tycoons who don't pay the state anything, no one can say, and they are certainly not on that list of 100 businessmen who will be announced how much they owe to the state. You don't know Djelic either, it's a flash question for you how much Miroslav Miskovic owes the state. Do you know? You don't know, you have no idea, and if you know how to call him as Deputy Prime Minister and ask for that money to come into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, we ask you today to say, when you and your responsibility came here to represent this new debt slavery, these are now chains, chains from which you cannot come out, whether the exact statements you make from the government or the exact statement of Governor Šoškovic a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62086	Mr. Vice President, you have your word. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62087	First, I want to say that this debate on debt is extremely healthy in those democracies where there is no problem, and when it falls into debt slavery, as you said, the exit hurts and lasts because it implies that certain rights, primarily social ones, must be reduced so that this state does not go bankrupt or that there is a permanent, subordinated economic policy that cannot be, let alone sovereign, nor autonomous but is determined by those to whom it is owed. Serbia, Mrs. Jovanovic, when I became finance minister, after your government had a debt representing 126% of GDP, Mrs. Jovanovic. Today is 45%, I don't know if we should have a lot of math skills, but when compared to GDP, that's three times less. Serbia today is in three times the problem of leaving the Republic of Serbia in 2000. It's this inevitable fact that no one can ignore, and not only that, I had this difficult task at the time to be a finance minister when we didn't even have regular relations with the Paris Club, i.e.. For a long time, our country has paid nothing to official creditors, i.e. States, when you don't pay anything, you can't get any other benefits. We also didn't have regular relationships with the so-called. The London Club, which represented our commercial trustees, that I'm not talking about that we didn't have regular relations with the Russian Federation either, took us several governments, a few years, that and what was found, which is absolutely unregulated debt relations, confidential relations with the Russian Federation, and was not regulated situations with China. We had a situation where China had a serious grudge over those relations in which the Republic of Serbia was left at the end of 2000. We didn't have a regulated debt confidence relationship with any of the major factors in this world, not just the West. For years it took us years to reduce the debt slavery in which you left the Republic of Serbia without any possibility that any citizen of our country would get except a few privileged one credits for the apartment, it was the privilege of a small number of people and those who through other political ties provided themselves with large apartments that was, I don't know who it was, I wonder? I think that we should continue the debate that is necessary and important, our country today, if we look at the future now, is a country that has one of the lowest debt rates in Europe with 44% of public debt participation in GDP, but that and that is our responsibility for all those present here does not mean much if in the years that come we increase our exports. Public debt should be viewed primarily by two criteria, one is how much it represents towards the GDP and Greece that you have spoken has a 120% debt. Today, Greece is where you radicals left Serbia in 2000, which is the figures, and in any case under no circumstances can be our perspective, but we must be careful that any increase in public debt participation in GDP, and that is now another criterion that we must follow, can only increase participation at the moment when exports to our GDP are increased. With the start of exports of the Fiat and other investments that are going on in our country, we will have bigger exports, we will have greater GDP, in which case the new fiscal capacity of our country will open up to be in debt, but the governor is in his role, he must always be there to say first and point to potential dangers even before they occur. Serbia has used certain reasonable fiscal capacities for the past two, three years as all other EU countries. Serbia has a lower capacity now and in the next two years. It is up to us to develop our economy, to ensure that this capacity is greater. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62088	Vice-President Jovanovic argues that you did not understand the replica as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62089	I use the right to reply, because I think Mr Djelic understood me well, but he abused this position and function he now has and brought forth a series of lies. First of all, Mr. Djelic, I don't want to be personal, but when you came to Serbia, since you were put in the Russian Federation by that seal of the ban, you were not deported, but declared a non-grat persona in the Russian Federation, you came here as finance minister, and you had nothing, and today they say that you are some duke of the Meridian Bank, that you have 11m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62090	Vice President, I would really like to ask you to put personal observations or perceptions aside.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62091	Don't be angry, Mr. Djelic, he considers himself a successful businessman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62092	Please, I am in charge of taking care of Parliament's dignity and I ask you to respect the post of Vice President and Mr Djelic's personality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62093	Mr Djelic and I have known each other for many years, and we can exchange such sentences, given that I was an MP and when he came for the first Minister of Finance, so-called. democratic governments, after the Petoctobarian coup. But now I'm going to have some clear arguments. In no way should you have mentioned the "Fiat" in the end and held on to it as a straw of salvation for future development of the economy at the moment you came, after the sanctions, after the bombing, after everything your friends in the NATO Pact and the EU have done to us. There were 15,000 employees in Kragujevac. One thousand 200 and the rest, and it was taken over by your contract to work in the new Fiat factory cars, these days, Mr. Djelic, I have to inform you, because it's very important that these people are under incredible pressure by an Italian company to leave their jobs, to be fired or to be given a job termination, or to take the money offered. So these are the people you guaranteed were, you personally in Kragujevac four years ago when you signed a memorandum where they would work, and after the bombing, we raised the car factory from the ashes and on that platform now, I would ask you to ask the lady who is the president of the parliamentary group, you say and warn her that she is not allowed to throw herself at the speaker as she speaks. I'm talking to you, Mrs. Kolundjia. And indeed, Mr. Djelic, all these arguments are not in your favor because the people live much worse today, and you have brought them into such a situation that they cannot put an end to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62094	Vice President Djelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62095	Kragujevac's conversion as an industrial centre of Serbia is a difficult process and the fact is that what the markets were once or have disappeared, or have to be found in another way. But here, on Saturday, I had the honour to attend the opening of a scientific conference on stem cells in Kragujevac, where, because of the work and ambition of people, they found common language with our geneticist Stojkovic, we provided thanks to this assembly the opportunity to invest ten million euros to build a stem cell centre and a stem cell bank that will also be the ultimate success of the entire Kragujevac. So we should look forward to Kragujevac's success, there will be more challenges, parts of the flag, for example. tools and many others who are privatized, today have significant success. I am proud that as in charge of negotiations for Serbia's entry into CERN, which is now the seat of the largest scientific experiment in the history of humanity, and perhaps, if this is confirmed, it will show that perhaps the bases of modern physics must change in Serbia, and hopefully in December will enter that organization, and what is very important is to say that it is then qualified and company from Kragujevac, first of all those who and several years ago during the time my colleague Popovic was the minister of science have ensured that in this great experiment the magnets and one number of other structures that have been built in Kragujevac, so that at this point Kragujevac's future is determined, the future of Kragujevac is something that is extremely important because our country's future is in industry, in agriculture is in what will be added value. That's why we've made these arrangements and the very careful leadership of our country so that we don't overdo it, find strategic partners, and that's the right way forward. I believe that with all the difficulties and you're right, there are difficulties, difficult personal fates, but generally, the situation today is incomparably better than the one we found 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62096	I also thank you for the clarification, especially for the understanding you personally have for Kragujevac. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62097	Excuse me, please, how much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62098	You've got 61 minutes and 40 seconds left, plus 15 minutes since you're an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62099	But I'll still be 15 minutes first for an authorised representative. Good afternoon, Mr. Djelic. This first lesson with the calendar was successfully completed. It's October 18th, not October 11th. I see you're making mistakes under the impression of the calendar. Let's go a little wider, how did you get going? Mr. Djelic, don't attack Ivica Dacic and Slavica Djukic in this assembly again. That's not nice, you're still in the coalition, you know, that's the first thing. The other thing, Mr. Djelic, was not the radicals who made a debt in Greece, but Papandreou. He's a socialist, he comes to all the DS and Boris Tadic promotional gatherings. Here it promotes you, when you want to show a connection with abroad and call on American student Papandreou and then take a nice picture and he's 120% in debt to Greece, it's a problem of the Socialist movement and the Socialist International, not a radical problem for what's going on. You figure people don't know, so they can mess up, they can't mess up. Let's finally get going, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, on the bill. The topic is the Commercial Bank and this borrowing, i.e. the guarantee the Republic gives for its construction directorship. Why are we doing this? Can anyone explain to me why we're doing this? Where does it say in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or in any law that the Republic makes apartments for the market through state authorities, the para-state authorities? Mr. Djelic, it's not even in the EU, right, nod? Yeah, that's right. The pain will come at 59 minutes, not at 15. They wrote nicely, a statement of compliance with EU rules. There are sides and a half, polls, and when asked whether it is with the EU, they say it is not, it is not, it is not, it is not. As you do with this bill, you do not lead us into the EU. You swore to lead us to the EU. People believed you and concluded that there was a construction directorship in France that makes 5,000 apartments out of booze, like this. Mr. Djelic, let me explain to you, after this list that Riza Halimi did not participate in, only partially true data will be determined. Mr. Djelic, our previous signatures were far more complete, because they had far more questions and demanded much more answers to the material and social aspects of a family and an individual. Mr. Djelic, we had a situation where there were 20 per cent more housing units in Serbia than families, and now you're saying that in 10 years, several hundred thousand fewer residents in the Republic of Serbia, so the question is, who needs apartments? Maybe it's the wrong dispersion. It's your fault. You've sent a message to everyone, better to be a social case in Pinosava than a ten-hectare boss in his village. No one in the village in Serbia can be the boss today with 10 hectares of property. Then you sown around larger cities of lumper – proletariat, which must live because it depends on the state and on the social function of the state. Since you are very effective in solving these problems, let me draw attention to you, Podavalska Street, displaced faces from KIM, have no electricity for days, go, jump, solve, show that there is a difference in Serbia where Tadic is in power from KIM, where he is in power of Thaci. How different they are at the barricades down here and these in these camps, where you demonstrate great humanity. We come to the conclusion that in the Budget Rebalancing Act, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia under Article 3(a), it is the issue of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, under six Roman, Bozidara, escapes me again, according to the business banks. See, gentlemen, MPs, paragraphs 11, 14, and 15. Under 11. – Commercial Bank, construction land equipment, Serbia's construction directorate, number 14 of Serbia's construction directorate and construction of housing facilities "Stepa Stepanovic", Belgrade, 35m euros, previously 20m euros, and again Serbia's 25m-euro construction directorate, Ivana Ribara Street, New Belgrade. How is this done at this location Stepa Stepanovic? It's easier for you to buy a used apartment downtown than you're going to buy that one and the question is when it's going to be over. Today at a cheaper price you can buy an apartment on the market than at that location, there is 1250 to 1300 euros per square. What kind of savings is that when the state makes apartments? There's no saving. There's no saving. I expected, but Djelic escapes, he keeps running away from me, in amendments to the Budget Law, you wrote a billion and 898 million dinars, and 18.5m euros, respectively. Is that changed by some amendment to the government when it comes to the Rebalancing Act? Why? In this basic guarantee agreement, you wrote two billion dinars, the guarantee is given to two billion dinars, and two billion is much more than a billion and 898 million. If it's a technical mistake, if you've corrected it, it's not a problem. I get the impression you didn't make it right. This, two billion euros, two billion dinars, that's 20 million euros to you, and in the Rebalancing Act, there's a second amount. Now let's ask a question, is that borrowing necessary? Does that mean the state needs to take over the investment? It doesn't. Why the state makes apartments. On the basis of which member of the Constitution, on the basis of which member of any law could she make the first dwellings? There's no such thing as a commitment anymore. And before that, when it was a commitment, it wasn't the state that had an obligation, it was the economic operators, theOURs, the working organizations, the SIZs. Who wants to fit in because it's known that the building is 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 1-5, if you have a connection, 1-7? Still some problems have not been solved that exist with situations in which the state has somehow participated in construction. What about that housing cooperative from New Sad that's been liquidated? She's been building police apartments and causing bankruptcy. Why? In order not to succeed in the execution of this housing cooperative against the Republic, where it conducted the procedure, to settle its claims, and then to be removed from the execution, a secretary in one ministry and a nearby lawyer's office activated the case again, caused bankruptcy, the liquidation of a residential cooperative. What's the state doing here? Is it possible that the state must always be right in contractual relations, it is absolutely infallible? Should we make social housing? You should. If we're going to make these social apartments, I'd ask you to pay attention to what I'm about to read to you and you'll see the ocean of resources at the hands of every government, just stand by to take and finish the job. Let's take it in a row. He knew Djelic, so he ran away. A criminal report was filed on 17 February 2006. On behalf of the damaged Aleksandar Lojpur, lawyer against Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, Vesna Djindjic, Dusan Lalić, Nikola Živanovic, Mladen Spasic, Mira Eric-Jovic. It's one big criminal report. I also have paperwork with warrants and everything. What's this about? The funds found in Cyprus. There's one piece here where the Young Man boasts, four billion dollars. Where's the money? Here, let Radosavljevic finish it and he solved the problem. Four billion people, what's wrong with you? Well, we don't have that much foreign investment in two years. It's our money, it's not any responsibility. This gets picked up, and even from those bastards who are responsible for these things, they charge interest. I'm not saying that whoever filed a criminal charges against these people claims that they took that money, no, it doesn't say it in a criminal report, but it says they're responsible for counterfeiting, abuse of official position, so when you squeeze them, they become witnesses of associates like Djura Mutative, because when Djura Mutavi spoke, the law was changed. You heard that pearl yesterday. These praises to God are not dim, and when they speak there will be billions and billions. It could have ended normal power in three years. The first example, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the money lies, just to pick up and nothing else, there is no need for us to be in charge of neither IDA terms nor anything. Second case, gentlemen, solve the Galenika problem. Here are your contracts and this Nenad Ognjanović. My people, what he was messing up. I've still got this kind of paperwork. It should take the office for organised crime and money will fly from all sides, not this variant of how it will be worth it to allow some cele-mile-lale in privatisation to buy Galenika as cheaply as possible, and Galenika was intended by many, you remember more Panic. Why are they so interested in Galenika? The pharmaceutical industry, people. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when the DS came to power on October 5th, remember when they burned here, freaked out, freaked out around Belgrade, the first thing that was done in the City Assembly -- a conclusion was made to examine what happened with 3.416 apartments. You know that, Vuk Draskovic, that lease on custody, so this, and then the assignment, and they've come up with solutions for some apartments that haven't even been set up yet, and they've written it as if the apartment was made. That's what DOS said -- we'll clear up with crime, get revenge on Vuk Draskovic for what he threw Djindjic out in 1997 so he wouldn't be mayor. We don't have any solution. Here's the solution. How nice it would be for social cases to live on Santa, it's a real location for them. You don't need to make, here's a large amount of apartments. These are all ideas, I don't know why I'm helping you, but here. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic here we have projects of the deposit insurance agency, so we have projects dedicated to the cabinet of Vice-President of the Government for European Integration and there are so many other projects where foreign funding is given to end something in the administration or in society. When you add it up, it's a big amount. We have a special law on these donations, you know, but do you know what the problem is? In the Budget Law, there's no such requirement... (President: You are already in the fifth minute of the parliamentary group's time. I'm continuing time. Can I, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? (President: You can, but I remind you to start using time.) You're right. Why am I talking about this and I can't tell you what the amount is? Why didn't you show it in the budget rebalance or in the budget in the corresponding column, because you need to know that there is a column of funds from the budget, funds from other sources. These are resources from other sources, not displayed. Do you know how much funds are used on mental, intellectual services from abroad? Like in our loans and this assignment. Thirty-five per cent of each loan is never spent in Serbia, but Serbia is a flow water heater. It reportedly entered Serbia, with tiny channels coming out towards aunts, relatives, experts, NGOs from abroad and all those who intervened to ensure access to one of these funds or one of those banks. Of course, in the distribution of ministerial posts, unless Minister Dulic has any involvement in the euro funds, so why would he be a weaker minister than others, he must invent his source. The source that was invented is the construction directorate and the human goals of 5,000 apartments that will be more expensive than the price on the market. Look out, double damage is done. Let's see if I have any other ideas on how to fix this situation. Here, I'm giving you one idea to raise your voice against UNMIK, KFOR and Eulex. Yesterday, I read to you the court's verdict in Mitrovica where Serbs were convicted because they illegally crossed the state border of the Republic of Kosovo. EULEX, which is a supervisor, has not intervened, KFOR has not intervened, UNMIK has not intervened. Indemnify Bogdanovic, Stefanovic, Jeremic to intervene. Why? Do you know how much the wealth of the Republic of Serbia is in KIM territory? If you just say that Blink is worth five billion dollars, then I'm not going any further. Who has the right to give up this national fortune? Who has the right to be a passivandok is revealed while giving it to another regime? Next, saving places. All banks operating in Serbia, the Commercial Bank is the Bank with the highest participation in state capital. I'll read those other banks to you later, see how difficult the situation is with us. But all banks that have foreign names in their name must, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, be bound by one law to make sure that all that is greater interest than the interest rate applied in their countries is subject to extra taxation, because if it is done, then we will not have, say, such examples. Here's a life example. One man died in 2006 in the King, had a loan, in 2008, a cut was made, found to be a debt of 30, or 12,000, and 18,000 interest. She asked a woman – how is that possible, why? They said, well, it's a mistake, pay these 12,000 and solve the problem. But she didn't solve the problem, but for her comes hell. Why? Well, there's EOS Matrix, who says, "Oh, you let go of what the bank is." The bank gave us the records, you owe us these 18 grand and there goes the interest and they call. Of course, I told my wife to notify the police, Telekom, not to bother her on the phone, etc. But what happened? Since he is retired, it is inexecutable, so without court proceedings, the agency has submitted the list and the PIO Fund is denying that woman half a pension every month, and her pension is 18,000. So, the agencies with the problem group, the founders are absolutely problematic, and there's this Montgomery guy, the Styrofoam counselor. We've got one of those. They're walking this country. They even scare ordinary people. If you seduce order in banks, if they have 6%, anything that is above 6% charged in Serbia, they will have to pay 99% of the tax. To see if the Intensa Bank would stay in Serbia for two days. She'd pick herself up, she'd disappear. Each year they make 450m euros, transfer profits from here, and then they find it difficult to finance the Republic with 16, 17% interest, and the Republic gives first-class securities of value, always charged. Where can Mirko Cvetkovic tell a bank with a foreign name – we cannot pay you, wait for a deadline? That's impossible. From the sea of good solutions you do not draw any, and from the sea of bad solutions you pick up all the bad solutions, and even forget the calendar. We're passing law 18. He's got to get in before the time, 'cause he's got to get in 11. How? We know you have 126, but you can't change the calendar. We know about Gregorian, Julian, and now Tadic's calendar is being patented again. Don't do that. Where does it say you have to be in power? It doesn't say that anywhere, unless you've been blackmailed by people from abroad, so it's just so tight. Now, let's see if there's room for the funds to be provided to solve all social housing problems. Let's take it in a row. The bankruptcy and liquidation procedures that are under way, let's see which banks are: Business Bank a.d. Novi Sad, Belgrade Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank Belgrade, South Bank Belgrade, Beobanka a.d. Belgrade, Valjevska Banka Valjevo, IK Banka Belgrade, Astra Banka Belgrade, Bora Bor, Credit-Export Banka in Belgrade, Rai Banka in Belgrade, Control Banka, Medifarm Banka, Gold International Banka, BC Banka in Belgrade. There's a lot of material, I'm not going to read everything about debt-confidential relationships, reported claims of creditors and reported claims of these banks to third parties. It's just enough to look at how you own yourself with the business space of these banks by the Deposit Insurance Agency, the recovery and liquidation of banks, just to look at it, so you'll see that something's wrong. If that doesn't convince you that something's wrong, then look at the reports of the end-of-the-line capital sales process in banks. Let me remind you, first, South Bank of Belgrade, Novi Sad Novosad Banka, Continental Banka Novi Sada, Niška Banka Nis, Vojvodjanska Banka Novi Sada, Pannonian banka Novi Sad, see how they were sold, for which funds, for which there is more, who paid less, why more, and why he paid less. Everything can be made clear to you. In such conditions when banks or assets go into the hands of criminals and others around us, the state shows passivity, but therefore shows great activity when to be in charge. Why? To make Serbia quite a debt of slavery. If you're uncomfortable investigating all this, then I would ask you to explore the system of Dragan Djilas company, 16 companies you have, then Srdjan Saper's system, six so far, maybe more, Nebojsa Krstic, he has two companies, clients, etc. Then take a look at Tuck. It's a friend of Tadic's from high school, the biggest magnat, member and some directorate, drama. If that is not enough for you, then go to Dragutin Radosavljevic Guta, director of the Administration of Revenue and ask him for the data on how much he owes on behalf of taxes and contributions, as much as he owes. It's all worked out, I'm not talking about Montero, I'm not talking about those who are shutting down to forget about the job. There you can find funds probably for the budget and a half, so for 2012 and 2013, not only will you provide funds, but you might be able to regain the reputation and dignity of you as authorities, but much more the reputation and dignity of all citizens who strive to live honestly. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62100	MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62101	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially you impatient MPs to hear what I'm about to tell you, I'm glad you have such impatience, such curiosity, I'm particularly pleased when the systems of values and when the EU defends Zoran Krasic. That means my lectures are fruit-making, so even for the worst students, there's a chance to get better, and that's good. This suggests that the idea of the EU is slowly reaching those of the largest Eurosceptics. It is one of the great virtues of congregation debates and one of the great virtues of this civilized communication that we have managed to establish in this assembly of this Parliament. However, I am not happy to hear about economic indicators, and above all, about the over-indebtedness of the Republic of Serbia is said in this way by people who were synonym for over-indebted debt of the Republic of Serbia, and for those who do not know what the subject is and what is on the agenda and who are... (Milan Avramovic, from the post: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62102	Please, like you, a real introduction Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62103	I'll remind them, the theme is the guarantee the National Bank gives for its construction directorship. Please read the agenda. It's written in Cyrillic. Cyrillic has 30 letters. It is very easy to read at home what is the agenda and then listen carefully, so that you can learn something, like Mr. Zoran Krasic. So here you heard a variety of arguments, when we talked about this agenda point, that Serbia is overly in debt, that it is unreally in debt, that it is unreasonablely in debt and that Serbia's total debt is enormous and that we cannot return it, and that's what the Deputy Prime Minister said, how long Serbia has been. Serbia's smallest external debt is currently in Europe. And again, the smallest in Europe is only 46%. When you ladies and gentlemen, who wouldn't tolerate this leaving the state register, that debt was 126 percent. I don't know how someone from the SRS has any face to talk about Serbia's foreign debt, because it's the representatives of a political party that didn't pay off pensions, social contributions, children's allowances, war logs, those are the representatives of the political party, who said about inflation on October 19th 1999 next -- inflation took hold again, but I'm convinced we'll keep it under control. We have welcomed the war with a total currency mass of 10 billion dinars, and now we have 14 billion dinars. We had to print some money, because who would finance all these works in the area of building apartments and bridge construction? Beware of this brilliant idea of the SRS, how construction works are financed -- by an inflation of 30%. It is much more honorable to borrow commercial banks from the Paris, London club and not be so much in debt, but to create inflation and finally say, mocking the citizens of Serbia, and this is what your leader says – you have 100 dinars in your pocket, inflation is worth it, so you have 80 dinars. It is the highlight of the country's impertinence, thus talking about inflation and thus creating housing, and then now criticising the state of Serbia, which in one reasonable way, wants commercial loans to solve the problem of the construction industry, to solve the problem of people in Belgrade who do not have their own apartments. Again for those who have slept through, the topic is,- and I see that you have a problem with telling the truth, the topic is Building Directorate and Commercial Credit which she gets to finish building apartments in Duke Stepe's complex. You who have spoken in this way about financing the housing, through inflation, have now, after 12 years, been raised in opposition, but you are still not doing well with commercial loans. Again, you have regrets about building up in Belgrade. In particular, some who say they have been resented -- Serbian citizens who have escaped from KIM and live without electricity today. You know, in Kosovo they used to live with electricity, and then you came from the SRS, so you turned their hearths into heat and they don't have electricity today. Unfortunately, they don't have electricity and unfortunately they're there at the barricades. I see you are in pain of truth and it should hurt you to know the truth, but ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you also said that you would not allow neither the President of Serbia nor the Prime Minister nor the Ministers, nor the MPs, nor the State Administration to receive the salary until the last pensioner and worker are calmed down. Then you left your pension fund debt so much that for three years we had to borrow from the world's banks to get back to the pensioners. We had to borrow for three years and return unpaid contributions to child's allowances. You took from the children of Serbia. Shame on you, you cowards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62104	I really should ask you all to use as few examples as possible. Both MPs and citizens understand and without any extra example, the creator of such vocabulary and speaking, above all, Mr Krasic. Mr. Krasic answered again, then Mr. Mladenovic. What order do you want? Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62105	You've lost it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it's not the law where we're in charge of the NBS, it's the commercial bank, but, you know, when it comes to bitterness, did you notice how much he hates the SPS? Have you noticed? He hates you pathologically. (President: I will really ask you not to make such comments. What? (President: Both the DS and the SPS are calling on you to cultivate the same values that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. Who can do it, who can't, who can't, can't. I'm just trying to cultivate the truth, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I'm fostering the truth, if that doesn't bother you? I mean, it's far true from any of the words said by the predecessor. But well, it's part of the tactics now. However, you must understand, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, it is a difficult frustration. [[President: Use replica time.]] In December 2003, the Resistance failed, as the Montgomery project sank, which is why he was expelled from being an ambassador. Then America, you will see in one of the deputy WikiLeaks, ordered Boris Tadic to surround himself with the Resistance, so the specimen appears itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62106	The literature you use as an MP to prepare yourself for participation in the debate is absolutely your right. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the amendment of counterpart Dragan Stevanovic, it refers to the day of application of this guarantee. The government has proposed that, immediately after the adoption of this guarantee and after publication in the Official Messenger, it be applied immediately the next day. Unfortunately, this has become a practice in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We also had a case yesterday, during budget rebalancing, that the law immediately after publication in the Official Messenger, would begin immediately with application. It used to be a practice that it took at least eight days to pass since the publication in the Official Messenger, in order for some law, guarantee, agreement or something like that to apply. It simply takes eight days to serve, and it takes eight days for all interested to read the law, so that the citizens of Serbia and all others are simply familiar with those provisions and those members of the law to come into force. The question is raised to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why are laws not done in time? Why aren't laws proposed in time? Why don't the laws go into congregation procedure in time? Then why do these same laws get passed, they go through an emergency procedure? Why do you ask the MPs to vote that these laws are applied immediately? Why is the government insecure? Why is the government irresponsible? Why don't you get it all ready in time? We had a case that only yesterday we got the government's opinion on the amendments to the budget rebalance. For six full days, we waited for them to give an opinion on only 90 and some amendments. We had a case last week that one whole day we couldn't work, because the government didn't allow itself to send its representative to this house and thus humiliated all of our MPs who came to work, and we couldn't do it that day, because none of the ministers were allowed to come to the debate that day. When it comes to this guarantee, what's going on? The construction directorate of the Republic of Serbia has already taken credit for the construction land and is now taking over the programme. The question arises – for what? What about the money and that loan that was already taken? Why isn't it done? The government needs to explain why it is now being refinanced by the loan, and what about that money? Has there been a collection of works or anything else? You just need to give us a reason why this is being adopted today. Or is it that there is no sale of dwellings—five thousand dwellings? The government has made a statement that there are 10,000 interested customers. What's with the customers now? Why don't they buy apartments? The government has been back in a few days and several months, saying that these are exceptional conditions for buying these apartments and that they cost only 1,250 – 1,290 euros. I'm sorry, that's when we pointed out that it wasn't a commercial price at all, that at that price, those apartments wouldn't be able to sell. From here you have settlements – Dusanovac, Lekino hill, Brace Jerkovic, Medaković 2, Medaković 3, then you arrive in this village. Why would anyone buy an apartment even there under these conditions? Far closer to the center of town, far more favourable conditions you have apartments to buy. The last lames you built go all the way to Kumodraz 2, which is about 10 kilometers from the city center. It's not at all, as you say - an attractive location. Today you can see that it doesn't matter, although you've been using it marketingly all these months – how extremely attractive it is, how close it is to the location, how great the interest in apartments is, how all the maltenes are sold out, etc. What's the problem today? Why doesn't the government say so? Out of 5,000 apartments, how much was sold? Do you need to lower the price? Why don't you come out? The National Bank of Serbia has introduced 20% stakes for each loan. Excuse me, please, are you in agreement with them or in a fight with them? It is in the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia to make participation as little as possible, so that Serbian citizens can buy the same apartments. Then the National Bank of Serbia increases 20% of its participation and thus makes it impossible for Serbian citizens to buy the same apartments. Why doesn't the Serbian government have a deal with the National Bank of Serbia? The construction directorate was obliged to provide funds for the payment of loans, and she did not do so and unfortunately now the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to correct their error. Last night I watched a 3D video animation of those apartments. You know what you offer Serbian citizens? You are offering one location that is first far from the city center. You're saying that two elementary schools, two kindergartens, etc. will be built. It's the 21st century. What's so crazy about this neighborhood having school or kindergarten? What is it that will motivate me to go there? Almost every village in Belgrade has a primary school or kindergarten. You say they'll have PVC carpentry apartments. Imagine! So, what housing unit today, what apartment building is being built in Belgrade today without PVC carpentry? You say there will be an elevator that will be connected to the garage. Who today builds apartments from privates or entrepreneurs without having an elevator connected to the garage? So all the housing units, all the residential buildings today in Belgrade that are being built have that. Then, the peak of everything, you say -- it's going to have a phone connection and the Internet. Imagine, please, in the 21st century, in the capital, you are introducing something exclusive in Belgrade, he says - the apartment will have a telephone connection and the internet. Who's it gonna attract to go there? What village doesn't have that today? It is a problem that you offer nothing more favourable than other settlements, which already exists in Belgrade. The problem is that for this money or for a far smaller amount each citizen will buy before the apartment in the Jerkovic brothers, in Medaković, in Dusanovac, on Lek's Brdo, because it is much closer, it will reach the city much faster and far more favourable conditions. It's especially a matter of time before they move in. Why would they wait a year or two or three to move into that apartment? They've already got their flats done, they're buying and they move in right now. I'm glad this amendment was accepted. This amendment is also proposed to point out the unseriousness and irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as how it proposes these laws, as well as how it applies to the National Assembly. I hope this will no longer be a practice in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to ask the MPs to vote the laws, guarantees and agreements that will come into effect immediately after the publication in the Official Messenger. We think it always takes at least eight days for these laws to be laid down, that eight days have the perks of Serbian citizens and everyone interested in reading these laws and getting to know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62108	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Milorad Buha? You weren't reported, I didn't see. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62109	I'll talk about two laws in this group of four laws that we discussed in principle... (President: You can only talk about the law that's on the agenda, you can't talk about two. So we're just talking about giving a guarantee, which means you can only talk about it. I will devote the most time to this very law, given that it is a legal and technically incomplete law. We've pointed out certain irregularities. However, this obviously does not cause any reaction on the other side. I'm going to have to point that out again, and it's purely formal legal reasons. Yes, there is a fiscal and financial basis behind this, but the government would have to take care of it. Unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister is gone, not present here, but I hope you'll pass it on to him. It is about giving guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Serbian Directorate of Civil Engineering. Belgrade. What's the point? The point is, it's about refinance. So, he had already preceded a certain financial business between the Commercial Bank, as a lender, and the Building Directorate of Serbia. The two billion dinar funds are invested in the construction land equipment at the "Step Stepanovic" barracks in Belgrade, with a time limit, with interest, etc. The construction directorate was required, given that it did not settle everything within a certain time limit, to be ordered by the Commercial Bank to obtain a guarantee from the state. We need to talk about the seriousness of the legal job of giving guarantees. The commercial bank is mostly state-owned. The construction inspection is a state body formed by this state. So two state institutions. One of these state institutions is in this case a financial institution, which also has the capital of other shareholders and external shareholders seeking security. So this is not the result of the state's demands to the state, it's the external shareholders, because it's a practice with them. No guesses, you'll get state guarantees. This is unserious. If we're a serious country and it's a serious job and if the funds we're investing in are being used on purpose, then there's no need for us to get into this. But apparently some things aren't put in place. Why aren't they put in place? The Serbian state's construction inspection received a warrant from state authorities, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to invest funds and to be a co-financer of certain construction activities, which is unusual and unnecessary, in the extreme case. The construction directorate invested the funds and expected that part of the investment would be refinanced. Is that over? It's not. Now who's to blame why the Building Directorate didn't get the funds back? The information funds provided their information - 5,000 apartments are built, citizens' huge interest, some 10,000 people who are interested, even the banking institutions came out with information that they would follow the state's work, etc. in order to start the construction industry and create preconditions to help young people, socially endangered, etc. And get those funds. We know in practice that every housing building, especially in private, is more or less, 50, 60, even 80%, even 100% before the building permit is already sold, i.e. a certain participation for the apartment. Is that what this situation is about or isn't it? No, obviously not, because the Building Directorate was denied those two billion. Now, it's a guarantee. The guarantee is a financial letter behind which there is a guarantee obligation, that in the event of a failure to comply with the debt of the principal, in this case it is the Building Directorate, that the state will settle the obligation. Now, what's the question? In your explanation, tell us this - in Article 7. The contract is prescribed that the credit user must at the latest... Look, it's got to be! Who has the right to give the state authority a warrant? If we originally interpret how it is written here, this is what it says – it must give the order by 31 October 2011 at the latest to secure a guarantee of up to two billion dinars of the Republic of Serbia. Not until, the guarantee always says the exact amount. It is further said – increased for all associated interest and expenses. What's the interest, what's the cost, we know about the time period on which the loan is granted, and that's 30 months, with a 12-month period of rest. All of this goes into guarantee, all of it must be covered by this law. When you say in Article 2. "The guarantee from Article 1 of this law is issued by the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of credit users in the name of obligations under the contract, on a long-term loan between the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and the Building Directorate of Belgrade, amounting to up to two billion dinars." Can't "do", must be the exact amount on which the guarantee is given. In your explanation, you say, "The 2011 Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for the provision of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to business banks for the Civil Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, up to two billion dinars. "What makes this argument now says that the guarantee will be increased by the corresponding interest and expenses. What's the cost, what's the interest? This is how you can't work. This kind of writing legal regulations, which must be clear, concise. The guarantee is the obligation of the state in case of non-compliance by the main debtor, and in this case it is the Building Directorate. We must point out, as Mr Krasic said, why the state is entering this business, why it interferes with economic flows. Construction is in a major crisis, but because of the dubiosis that you've created in construction. You can see how we're going to travel inflows, which are the obligations of the state towards the travel economy. There is no day that we do not have in the means of informing about how much state institutions dealing with these businesses owe to companies dealing with parts of services in the area of construction. You do not settle obligations on the one hand, you use state resources, you place them in housing, instead of giving private loans, or you do certain jobs in terms of creating preconditions, even subsidising certain interest to those privates, investing in residential construction, selling these apartments, allowing young people, perspective people and people who have the opportunity to borrow or buy these apartments and thus all the profits, and these privates, the construction industry in general, which will place their goods and services and that the state gets everything it needs through tax policy. This law, which you have proposed, it is against the law, has nothing to do with what guarantees should apply to. It's not comprehensive, it's not celery, it's ultimately harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62110	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Dear People's MPs, we have conducted a search of the Bills and in principle and in particular, so the National Assembly in voting day will decide on the Bill's proposal in principle, in particular and in general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Tuesday, October 18th, 2011 with a start at 13.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Vice-President Komic has already informed you that as soon as we finish voting, we will have the beginning of the next session. I'll see you at 1:00. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that there are 126 of us and that there are conditions for us to continue our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. This appropriation is intended to cover: Year: Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security, Republic Health Insurance and National Employment Services. Before we move to a decision on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, in principle. Please make a statement. All 126 MPs present in the hall voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. By written amendment, MPs Zoran Krasic withdrew on Article 1st item 4, Dragan Stevanovic on Article 1st item 4, Aleksandar Martinovic on Article 1st paragraph 4 and Sreto Peric on Article 4. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. Please make a statement. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. Please make a statement. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. Please make a statement. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic, and joint MPs Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelović and Bojan Djuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 MPs for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 MPs for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, four for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 4th amendment with the correction, the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic together submitted. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, nine for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Bojan Djuric submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I ask you to plead with 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Zlata Djeric submitted. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Djordje Milicevic submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4, Section 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Judita Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 4. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted the government's amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric, submitted the 6th amendment together. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Bojan Djuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment, with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, it's 127. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 7. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, it's 127. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you that in Article 11, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a feedback to the provisions of Articles 8, 9 and 10. It's a bill of law. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government contained in Article 11 on the feedback of the provisions of Articles 8, 9 and 10. A bill for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 8, 9 and 10. It's a bill of law. I remind you he's a member of the 11th. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of the law consisted in the need to ensure the smooth functioning of state authorities and organisations. Therefore, in order to finance the exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic established by the Constitution and by law, it is necessary to allow for the smooth execution of expenditure and expenditure. Otherwise, it would be called into question the regular dynamics of the execution of expenditure and expenditures of the Republic, and thus the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the Republic. The financing of pensions and social contributions would be particularly threatened. The reason for the early entry into force of this law is contained in the need to bring the financing of expenditure and expenditure of the Republic in line with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, which has changed the participation of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government units in the profit tax and which has been applied since 1 October 2011. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 5(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Budgetary system law, budget revenue and income must be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditure. Some of the amendments have made changes in the part of the budget governing expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and budget receipts. Given that, I suggest that the National Assembly Service, before the publication of the Law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the Law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. Of the 127 MPs, there are 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. All 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to amends and complements the financial plans for 2011: the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance, the Republic Fund for Health Insurance and the National Employment Service. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2011 Decision on the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. All 127 voted in favour of the motion for a decision. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2011 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour of the motion for a decision. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal and these decisions. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2011 Decision on amendments and additions to the 2011 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service. Please make a statement. We declare our decision to amend and supplement the 2011 National Employment Service's financial plan. The motion for a decision was voted by all 127, which means that we have voted in favour of this decision. We move to a statement on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt. Before we move on to a decision, I remind you, under Article 105(3), paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of Laws governing public borrowing, decides most of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, nine for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 4. I'm putting the Committee's amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We express ourselves on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on property taxes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We express ourselves on the draft law amending the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the mandatory traffic insurance law, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sveto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of the law stemmed from the fact that according to the existing law, the deadline for the start of work of the Guarantee Fund was 11 October 2011. Given that there were no conditions for the start-up of the Guarantee Fund within the time limit provided for, and in order not to extend the deadline, legal uncertainty, uncertainty, such entry into force of this law has been proposed. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I'm putting, ladies and gentlemen, on the vote of the draft law amending the mandatory traffic insurance law as a whole. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic. We declare the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I remind you that Article 105 of Article 3(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the National Assembly shall decide by majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Building Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Civil Directorate of Serbia d.o.o. Belgrade. We move to a statement on the proposals for a law on the validation of international agreements. As we move on to a decision on the proposals of the law on the approval of international agreements, i.e. the agreement, which is points 6 to 37 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 of Article 3(6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by the majority of votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, on these bill proposals, will only vote in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to a decision on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law to confirm the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. We move to a decision on the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Risk Insurance Project in the case of elementary disasters for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. We move to a decision on the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Project for Kolubara) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. We move to a decision on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Additional Protocol of the Agreement on the Amendment and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. We move to a decision on the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the amendment and addition of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus from 31 March 2009. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime and rules on the operation of the country of origin of goods under the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation on free trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Russian Federation since 28 August 2000. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Gentlemen, please concentrate on finishing this agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the reduction of the number of persons without citizenship. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the governments of the participating States of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organisation on crime co-operation, particularly organised forms, the Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the Governments of the States involved in the fight against crime co-operation, particularly organised forms and the Additional Protocol on the fight against terrorism relating to the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation in the fight against crime, particularly its organised forms. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro on police co-operation. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on the Centre for Co-operation in the field of security. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the area of emergency situations. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Law Implementation Centre in Southeast Europe. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in Southeast Europe. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on the Registers of Releases and Transfers of Contaminants with the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, Public Participation in Decisions and the Right to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the field of the environment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, everyone voted yes. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on visa waiver for their citizens. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Bolivian Republic of Venezuela on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on visa waiver for their citizens. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the amendment to the Convention on the International Mobile Communications Organisation via satellite. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendment 1-6 to the European Agreement on the work of crews on vehicles carrying out international road transport. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of tourism. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the International Maritime Labour Organisation Convention, 2006. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of culture. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on strategic partnership and co-operation. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session is closed at 14.25 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62112	The second session of the Second Regular Session on 18 October 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.25 p.m. The session is chaired by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62113	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are 126 of us and has working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zeljko Tomic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, and Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of the Interior and Zorica Loncar Kasalica, Head of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary to make clear the National Assembly on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, a proposal for a merger of debates, a proposal for a change in the order of agenda points and a proposal for the Government's reply to the Interruption to be considered at a special session of the National Assembly. The government proposed that the draft law on mining and geological research, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between KFW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia as an agent, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on public-private partnership and concessions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on gambling be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on municipal activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the State Council of Prosecutors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2011, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 56 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda the Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the halting of political negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and NATO on the approximation of or full membership in those organisations, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, six voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations and the Proposal for a Law on residence and residence of citizens; 2. Joint principled examination of the proposal for a Law on Maritime Navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Obligation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic; 3. Joint principled search on the draft law supplementing the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, the Proposal for a Law on municipal works and the Proposal for a Law on Mining and Geological Research; 4. A joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on the regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors – the users of public funds, for commitments made on foreign loans, or loans, the Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan framework contract for the allocation of individual loans to KfW, Frankfurt in Maine and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia as an agent and the Proposal for a law on gambling; 5. Joint principled examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreign Trade and the proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions; 6. Joint principled examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors; 7. Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Extradition, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation, Proposal for a Law on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Defence Cooperation; 8. Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a decision on the termination of a member of the Securities Commission, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council and a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia; 9. The Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision confirming the Commission’s Financial Plan for Securities of the 2011 values and the proposal to give its consent to the Statute of the Securities Commission. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I put Mr. Mikovic's proposal to vote. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted yes. I understand Mr. Mikovic's proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a change in the order of the agenda of the sitting, so that the order of the items of the agenda is as follows: 1) Proposal for a national strategy on protection and rescue in emergency situations, 2) Proposal for a law on residence and residence of citizens, 3) Proposal for a law on the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia, 4) Proposal for a law on the prohibition of production and the creation of the laws of bacteriological and toxic weapons and on their destruction, 5) Proposal for the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia, 8) Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, 9) Proposal for a Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, 17) Proposal for Laws on Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, 17) Proposal for Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republics, and the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the ECB, Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the government's response to the Interpol on the legality of work, business and responsibility of the minister of religion and diaspora Srdjan Srekovic, who submitted a group of 56 MPs to the SRS group, be considered at a special session of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Before we approach a statement on the agenda in general, I remind you that the parliamentary group of the URS, 13 October 2011, submitted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on this proposal, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of a proposal for a parliamentary group, which means that this proposal, by force of the Rules of Procedure, is to be included in the agenda of this session. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, the motion to merge the debate, the proposal to change the order of agenda items and the proposal for the Government's reply to the Interpol to be considered at a special session of the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 128 MPs, 126 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a national strategy on emergency protection and rescue, 2. Proposal for a Law on residence and residence of citizens, 3. Proposal for a law on administrative inspection, 4. Proposal for a law prohibiting the production and creation of supplies of bacteriological and toxic weapons and their destruction, 5. Proposal for a Law on Maritime Navigation, 6. Proposal for a law on bonds and fundamentals of property-legal relations in air traffic, 7. A Bill on Household Buildings, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Community Labour Act, 9. Proposal for a law on mining and geological research, 10. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the debtor – public funds for commitments made on foreign loans or loans, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement for the allocation of individual loans between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia as an agent, 12. Proposal for a law on gambling, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Trade Act, 14. A proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law to the High Council of the judiciary, 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Council Act, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on extradition, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on legal aid in civil and criminal matters, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the field of defence, 21. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Defence Cooperation, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on co-operation in the area of defence, 23. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of a member of the Securities Commission, 24. Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, 25) Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group, 26. Proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's financial plan for 2011 and 27. Proposal for consent to the Statute of the Securities Commission. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62114	We continue the session with a joint principle and uniform search on the National Strategy for Emergency Protection and Rescue and Proposal for a Law on residence and residence of citizens. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on draft agenda acts, according to points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you, that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have five hours of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and that – the MP group For European Serbia one hour 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the Serbian Radical Party's ambassador group one hour 8 minutes 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Konstantin Arsenović, MP of the PUPS; MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, MP of the DSS; MP Miletic Mihajlović, MP of the SPS – JS. If any parliamentary group decides to give authority to one of its members, please inform us of this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. The SRS MP, he says they turned it in? A common principled single search has not yet been opened, so I ask the parliamentary groups who want to hand over the lists or hand over to authorised representatives, to do so. The New Serbia MP group, the authorised representative, will be MP Srdjan Spasojevic, the LDP parliamentary group, the mandated representative will be Bojan Djuric, until the forms arrive, we will still not open a joint principled single search, so MPs can hand over their lists without haste. Is there another one of the authorized representatives who wants to hand over the list of speakers? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 191. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: a proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations and a proposal for a law on residence and residence of citizens. 15,08 hours. ) Does the proposing representative, Human and Minority Rights Minister, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62115	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, today is the agenda of the National Strategy for Emergency Protection and Rescue and the Proposal for a Law on residence and residence of citizens. I will try to present these two acts in the best possible way and answer your questions. Emergency situations, caused by natural disasters or human activities, daily relationships of many human lives and in different ways destroy, degrade the environment, causing great material damage and losses. Southeast Europe's region is increasingly at risk with various kinds of natural dangers, floods, droughts, extremely high temperatures, earthquakes, slides, storm accidents, etc., technical and technological accidents, the fact of hazardous substances and other danger conditions. Global climate change also contributes to the destruction of the environment with a harmful impact on human health, the survival of many natural species and cultural heritage. The combination of those factors requires a comprehensive national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations involving prevention, mitigation, protection and recovery systems. The national strategy we present here fully meets those requirements. The basis for the adoption of this strategy is contained in the Emergency Law, and the government of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on July 29th 2010, decided on the establishment of a Working Group for the Making of a National Strategy. The task force has drawn up a draft National Strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations and is today in front of you. The purpose of the national strategy is to protect the life, health and property of citizens, the environment and the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia. The National Strategy defines and sets out national coordination mechanisms and guidelines for the reduction of disasters caused by natural phenomena and the dangers of accidents, protection, response and resolution of consequences. The national strategy shall ensure that EU recommendations for the development of national protection systems, the establishment of institutional, organisational and personal conditions for the implementation of protection in emergency situations, the security of well-trained personnel, the establishment and training of existing fire and rescue units in all places for the implementation of new tasks, the development of the ability to respond in the event of disaster in the most efficient way, including the elimination of the consequences of terrorist attacks, the provision of material assistance to support the realisation of the national strategy, training of fire and rescue units in the MUP, fire-fighting units in enterprises and fire-fighting units of voluntary fire companies, units of civil protection, specialised and those general purposes, training of citizens for emergency operations, etc. Global policy in the area of disaster reduction as well as national efforts in the area of prevention and removal of the consequences of emergency situations are particularly necessary and productive at regional level. Also, the national strategy envisions the possibility of effective regional co-operation, given that the need for a common response to the challenges is increasingly expressed, as very often these types of disasters do not know the state borders. Also today, there is also a proposal for a law on residence and residence of citizens within this united agenda. It is well known that the current Law on residence and residence of citizens dates back to the time of the SFRY. The new Law on residence and residence is adopted for the sake of a harmonised application of the law that regulates personal data, contains solutions in line with the solutions in the Law on the ID card, the Act on the Party, as well as in many other laws. The new legal solutions are completely different conceptually set up by transferring the accent with the fulfillment of formal-legal aspects related to the reporting of residence, home and residence addresses to material and legal aspects, i.e. to the collection of data that reflect the actual image found in real life conditions, not just satisfying legally binding forms. In this way, there has been a considerable expansion of the possibility for citizens who, according to current law, have been unable to apply their residence and thus take a step towards achieving other rights. Now they can do it. There are a number of grounds on which it is now possible to register residence on one side. On the other hand, there are a number of measures that the state can take to contribute effectively to the work of state authorities, i.e. administrative and judicial authorities, where the inaccessibility of citizens to the address of the residence, whose presence is necessary, is an obstacle to the conduct of proceedings before these bodies. Thanks to the databases that are now being conducted in electronic form, the MUP simplifies the process of reporting a new residence by removing the obligation to log out of the previous residence, thus achieving and saving the time and resources of citizens. We are convinced that this kind of modernisation of the work of the MUP, as well as other competent authorities, and above all the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, therefore, that it has a modern legal basis, will contribute to the quality of existing databases per citizen. This would be a brief presentation of a strategy and a new law on the residence and residence of citizens. On this occasion, I would like to thank you for your attention and hope for an active participation in the further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62116	Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62117	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, held and held that the proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations is a very important document and that it is of national interest to our country, and above all to its citizens. That's why we're going to support this document. We live in a time characterized by high technologies in addressing human needs whose side of the product or application itself has negative effects on the environment, and thus human health. What's even worse is the abuse of scientific achievements in the use of so-called "supervised" science. dirty technologies in the production of increasingly modern weapons. Nuclear waste is increasingly being used in the production of killings, and in order to solve the problem of keeping it safe. Unfortunately, we've experienced it on our own. The bombing of Serbia in 1999 with deadly means, filled with poor uranium, is a kind of crime and attempt to genocide against our people because they are consequences up to a thousand years old. The latest statement by the health minister must be of serious concern to us. I will remind you, he said that the number of cancer patients in Serbia has been increased almost three times in recent years and that this is the most pronounced disease in Serbia. I'd go back to the very document that I think is well-conceived. I think it's only important to point out a few facts. The purpose of the national strategy and obligations arising from international documents has been clearly defined. The importance of the adoption of this document stems from the situation in this area and points to the possibility of reducing the risk and increasing the resilience of society in the event of a disaster. The failures of an existing system of protection and rescue are defined. Strategic areas have been defined to strengthen management capacity and efficient coordination of mechanisms. All forms of possible emergency situations have been considered from floods, slopes, slides, climate change, earthquakes, to various accedents, thus providing adequate application and training in the event of an emergency situation. Based on the contents of this document and the attached annex area of emergency situations in the Republic of Serbia, three basic problems can be drawn up. First it's organizational, second it's human or personal and third it's material. Personally, I think the first two problems are easier in nature. It is certain that there is a problem because good organization and personnel are a prerequisite for any success, especially in these situations. There's a legal regulation. Obligations have been defined by the taskholder from local self-government to the government and from health institutions and other institutions to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. The organisation's obvious problem is at the very top and coordination of jobs and tasks, but for me it's a smaller problem because it's dependent on human factor. It's a similar situation in terms of personnel. There are potentials, it's safe and it's possible to resolve. Clearly, proper training and staff training is necessary. What's a very serious problem for me is a material base, and it's evident that we lack a lot of resources and equipment and it's modern. What we have is either outdated or exhausted resources. In what way this problem is resolved is under a great deal of question. Until the material base is resolved, we're worth neither good organization nor personnel. In realising and solving the problem, we'll share incompetence because our bare hands don't put out the fire. To conclude, the document as a orientation and taking action is good and as such we support it, but other measures have been necessary to bring it into practice. When it comes to the law on residence and residence of citizens, which the PUPS will support, and I would point out only the fact, and that is what the minister stressed, but I think it is very important for citizens to hear and repeat, that this law solves the problems of residence and so on. Homeless. The law stipulates that homeless people, and not few of them, can also report their residence through a social work centre in which they are located and thus exercise other rights as well as all other citizens of Serbia. I think this law has given many newspapers and simplified the regulation procedure of this area and is therefore worthy of its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62118	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62119	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within this first item of the agenda of this regular session, we have two important documents, one strategy, a national strategy, concerning emergency protection and rescue, and secondly, a draft law on residence and residence. Both of these acts are very important and their adoption represents one step forward in establishing a legal norm and setting up a policy that is important for the functioning of order and system in our country. So, when it comes to the national strategy of protection and rescue in emergency situations, we see today almost daily that the whole world and many regions, including our region in which we live, therefore, the southeast of Europe, are facing both at the same time and at risk of many dangers, whether these are natural disasters or some disasters caused by human activity or other conditions. It is a matter of different kinds of natural dangers, which often involve a large number of lives, endangering the environment, which should be the priority of all humanity in its preservation and, I would say, and improving, endangering property, cultural goods, cultural heritage, etc. This issue is becoming increasingly current, so to speak, and it is becoming more and more significant as time passes, because we are facing a global process of environmental degradation due to many disturbances and environmental imbalances. In this regard, we also have a change in the global climate, climate conditions globally, so that futurologists dealing with this issue do not foresee a very bright future and assume facing major problems that we have to think about today in a more responsible way. When we talk about this, we can find out on the plan of world relations and policy that we have an unequal relationship with these issues, but in any case, I would say that the EU, European countries and countries that are trying to join the EU have one regulated system and are harder to build a responsible order that takes care of all this. I would like to present through this exhibition several of these findings, which contribute in an affirmative sense to both the one and the other act, but also several of these findings, on behalf of the parliamentary group that I represent, the SPS-JS. Today, we have a very common phenomenon of floods, droughts, high temperatures, earthquakes, slides, storms, fires due to various causes, whether natural, whether due to the lack of attention, human factor, the occurrence of technical and technological accidents, changes in the global climate etc. This endangers human lives, material goods, therefore, property, human health, environment, cultural heritage, so that there is a great danger in an unsettled system and order of great damages that are irreparable. The combination of these causes, so to speak, and the consequence requires the adoption of a comprehensive strategy that we bring today, but which, of course, is designed on different basiss and is based on many other and documents and our social realities and the past and so on. The basis for the adoption of a national strategy on this matter is contained in the Emergency Act, which defines an integrated system for protection and rescue. I think it's a key one formulation or an expression when we talk about an integrated system, because it marks the essence of the approach to these issues. The basis for adopting this strategy is also contained in other national and international documents and a large number of these documents we have brought as a country and as this Parliament, I mean many laws relating to regulation of many issues, which have something to do with this. But of these more important strategic documents is certainly the National Programme for the Integration of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, then, the National Strategy for Sustainable Development, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, certainly of these international ones – the Millennium Development Goals and the Kyoto Framework for the 2005 period. - 2015. I would say that the basis or basis for the adoption of such a document is, which is not said here in the text of the reasoning, but if you would allow me, I would also say that it is very important and this experience from the previous period, from the previous system, which dealt with these issues, and we cannot and should not be underestimated. Of course, it's not the most important thing in all of this. Many things from past times have been overcome. We have new circumstances, new currents, when it comes to this, but certainly this experience in terms of what was the functioning of civil protection in the earlier period is certainly valuable. We have another rapper that's very important, and that's a high degree of order in other countries when it comes to this. First of all, I think of countries within the EU, but of course also the high degree of regulation of these issues, for example. in Russia and in some other countries. The area of emergency situations is considered through certain parameters that are important for this area and it is primarily important to consider the legal and strategic framework, then organisation and management, resources, training and co-operation. I'd say a few words, when it comes to the resources that we have, and for the implementation of such a strategy, and also to the implementation of laws that are important in this area. So, the Ministry of the Interior, the Emergency Sector really does show very good results, so to speak, in the field of security and facing problems that arise in an emergency situation, and there is an obvious progress. However, it must be noted that the capacity-fulfilment of both the people and the equipment is not at the appropriate level and indeed we as a country and as a responsible society should, in this respect, make even more efforts to single out, provide for certain resources, sources of these funds and, in an adequate manner, achieve those standards that provide the highest level of protection in emergency situations. So, starting with the basic one, that we don't have enough firefighters in Serbia today, and according to some norms, it should be 1,000 people, as far as I know -- one contractor of these jobs, we have a far smaller percentage in this, and we really should make an effort in this direction. Of course, technical equipment to perform these tasks is not at the proper level. Certain efforts have been made to create better technical conditions -- in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, but it is certainly not enough and should cover the whole area of Serbia, in terms of staff and technical equipment, so that these tasks ahead of this sector are best possible and done. I would also like to appeal to those responsible from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior in the sense of completing the process of taking over employees and material and technical assets of mobile and immovable property, as well as archives from the Ministry of Defence's Emergency Office by the Ministry of Interior. So now we have a new organization, which, of course, the Ministry of Defense doesn't rule out in the given moments, but the Ministry of Interior, first of all, is the bearer of these affairs. A very important moment is training, education and training of the people who are in certain services to carry out these very important and difficult tasks. So education and training must be done at certain levels, using certain experiences and standards of the wider community, where we have a better and already one system set up at a high level, especially in Western European countries. It is also very important to co-operate between the Republic Emergency Staff with the same low-level entities in local self-governments, in cities, and in municipalities and there should really be one good co-operation and one good relationship, so to speak, and these results go in a positive direction through the education currently being done for needs, I think, hundreds of municipalities in this period. If we look at it in a broader sense, the adoption of such a strategy actually gives a picture of one responsible society, one serious and responsible state that thinks in advance about the security of its people, the property of their faces, the health of people, the cultural good, the environment of all those disasters that can arise as one great destructive power in times of emergency. We need to work here, not only on what is the adoption of a legal norm, the proper legislation, not just by adopting a strategy that is designed in one valid and very quality way, to put it that way. We have to work to build awareness that we are responsible and we are taking care of what it takes the next day to produce as one activity at a given time, when there are really some difficult circumstances. Let me now speak another word about the Law on residence and residence on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group and say that the need to pass this law is in that, that the previous law dealing with this issue is very much and surpassed by many of its norms and many of its members, since it was brought to the beginning of the third quarter of the last century and that in new circumstances, of course, we should apply this issue to the current moment. This law regulates the reporting and checking-out of residence, reporting and checking-out of residence, reporting of temporary stay abroad and the jurisdiction and manner of keeping appropriate records on these issues. I would say that it is certainly important for a country that the state and its authorities have insight into where these citizens live, where they are, so that they can communicate quickly and efficiently between the state and our citizens, no matter what issues and what needs it is. Only in one chaotic society would we have such a situation, that we cannot reach our citizens, can we not act on many issues in administrative disputes, in judicial disputes or in some other processes that do not have the character of these bodies that I have spoken of, so that in that part too one good intention and the direction of our country is shown to answer that question in the best possible way, and in the interests of both citizens and states. If we want to look bipolar, then it's the interest of both the states and its citizens. For example, we also have this situation about issuing personal documents of certain problems that made the citizens spin around, going from one body to another, being in one vicious circle and not being able to achieve those rights they needed at a given time, so that this law also solves the issue. If a citizen who has the right to an identity card has no registered residence, no residence, and no decision can be made to him in accordance with Article 11 of this Act, his residence shall be determined for the purpose of issuing his identity card and he shall exercise his rights. I would also say that it is important in that part that state authorities, judicial authorities or other bodies or organisations, which have a legitimate legal interest, can carry out a check-in of permanent residences, i.e. residences, which is very significant, because we, in practice, have many cases of fictitious status and fictitious reporting of residence or residence, which may be a condition for many manipulations, abuses, etc., whether in elections, for example. parliamentary, local or for personal purposes, etc. So, in that case, when checking these questions, then an institute was established, which is the passiveisation of that place or the address of the residence, whether it was a residence or residence. Also, we have a situation that today in Serbia we have citizens who are not our citizens, are not citizens of Serbia, but are, for example, citizens of Serbia. citizens of the republic or independent states that were formerly part of our country, the SFRY. The issue is resolved by the expiry of the ID cards, the validity of these citizens' ID cards, they are practically lost, i.e. the passive location of their dwellings is also passive and they must resolve this issue and residences and citizenships, etc. Of course, this is one process that takes place and I will conclude with the conclusion that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote, both for the National Strategy and for this proposal for a law on residence and residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62120	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as usual, everything we do in the Republic of Serbia, including with this strategy, we have gone the other way. The relationship between strategy and law is a general and special relationship. When we adopted the National Strategy, we first passed all the laws in the area, and after that we adopted the National Strategy. And in this situation, we have that we have passed laws, and after that, we are making a strategy, and I think it's a big mistake to call for the Emergency Act to be the basis of the strategy. What is said to be said in this article of the law that it must be coordinated action, I absolutely agree, but that cannot be the basis. The basis for this strategy is in the Constitution and the National Security Strategy of Serbia. Not to mention these other elements that you mention when you're attached to that European pathway. So that's one of my completely principled views, and I think it's wrong. Because if we take the most general definition of the strategy, that it is the system of scientific knowledge and the skills of the highest level in a particular social area and that it gives guidance, that it sets out operators in certain areas, it is further regulated through laws, where through the laws of certain factors, certain state entities will be specified obligations or tasks in that coordinated system. Certainly, we in the SRS advocate that Serbia must have a national strategy on this issue, but why does everything always have to go the other way with us? The next big remark is what kind of emergency strategy, in which there is not a single word about the biggest current problem in the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija? There are no guidelines as to how the problems exist, and they are daily in KIM, how the state authorities will solve them and what tasks they can have to solve these problems. At least you should have indicated in that strategy that KIM, when it comes to emergency situations, is a constant source of risk for such situations to happen. If you haven't given it through one word, we can only conclude that you and definitely, as you can almost every day see, have given up the KIM territories, and therefore cannot be called to the Constitution, that the basis of this strategy is the Constitution, if the Constitution and in its preamble and through all its members says that all state authorities, all institutions must protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and its integrity, meaning also with KIM. As for the situation in the area of emergency situations, gentlemen, we have had and previously functioned, even very well functioning one system. He did not have all the elements that perhaps some new dangers that are current today and exist, however, the system was current. When it came from the Ministry of Defence that certain elements of the system were transferred to the MUP, my personal opinion was that this was not done in an adequate way, the Ministry of Defence received certain obligations, and that there was absolutely no staff in its composition that could carry out these obligations, nor any material means for them to carry out these obligations. Even, in the MUP, in my opinion, for a time there was and as an attitude – give as many sectors as possible, give as much management as possible. I'll document it right now. Who could ever have guessed that the Anti-Government Defense Sector would come to the MUP, and what does that have to do with the MUP in the first place? My personal opinion was, given that there is a lot of crime in that sector, that it comes right into the MUP to resolve that crime, which exists there. But nothing happened. Perhaps some knowledge that there are some criminal charges, which in the pre-election year do not want to be carried out in the light of day. Nothing's been done. This is when it comes to anti-building defences, which is simply excluded from some natural environment or environment of the Hydrometeorological Institute and given to the MUP. The Ministry of the Interior then accepted the task of controlling the anti-building missiles, and it was not qualified for that. It certainly used a military polygon for these tests, but if someone is neither technically nor humanly trained to do so, then it shouldn't be done. There are many other elements that say that the system that once existed was completely broken, and no other system was established. Here, which I think is right and fair, you say in your analysis of the problems, and that institutional-organisational, where you say there are no conditions for consistent application of the rules, that the unsuitable organisation and implementation of preventive measures, the inaccessibility of specialised cadastres, the lack of comprehensive risk maps and the unequal capacity allocation of the services of response in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Then, materially-technically, outdated non-reliable equipment, means and vehicles, inadequate financing and maintenance of the protection and rescue system, the absence of specialised vehicles and response equipment in chemical accidents. Then, on co-operation, I think what you say is absolutely so, insufficient coordination between entities in the system of protection and rescue in emergency situations, insufficient co-operation between scientific and research institutions and direct research users, as well as insufficient co-operation with the non-governmental private sector and the need to improve international co-operation. When it comes to human resources and education, you say inadequate professional qualifications and technological discipline of available human resources, lack of specialized personnel, insufficient training of professional staff, unpreparedness and low level of capacity of local self-government, undeveloped culture of prevention, I absolutely agree with everything you have stated here. But when you bring all this together, then you have to draw the conclusion that there is no system and that the system is not working. There may still be a series of examples, gentlemen, to indicate that there is no coordination. For example, the Defence Act, since 11 December 2007, in Article 14 of point 20, has regulated a system of observation, information and alerts for the needs of citizens. I think that was well regulated and that's normal. However, with amendments of 26. In 1 1 92009, the obligation was deleted. Why do I say it was normal? So if there's one system that has resources in its system, it means there's no other system that would get or double any means, it's exactly what you're talking about in integration. It must be integrated all from different ministries, agencies and other state institutions into a single system, so it doesn't matter whether it is in the MUP or not. I need someone to answer me now how they're gonna deal with and prepare this surveillance, intelligence and alarm system, someone who doesn't have the resources? Next thing you know, we've talked about the flight control agency a lot. We've talked many times about "Juro - Control". In this "Juro – Control" there are funds in some account to organise search and rescue services. Who can explain to me why we haven't used and used these funds in years? Because you're thinking about whether or not the M.O.P. needs to organize a service like that, or whether the military should do it. The Department of Defense, by the nature of its work, must always have a search and rescue service. If we lost for all these years, not by withdrawing those funds, and we could probably get two helichoptera MI-17, so we could get one to search and rescue, and the other to fire protection in places where, eventually, the aircrafts that are wanted fell. That's what any normal country would do. That's what any system that's well integrated would do. It also says that there is no such integrity with us. As for some other things, we had a chance to see the Home Secretary yesterday. I don't know what time it is for our Minister of Interior in Nis to meet with the Minister of Emergency of the Russian Federation, Mr. Shojg. There are no ducks in the strategy. There is talk of a lot of co-operation with neighbouring countries, which is okay, the EU is talking about, which we believe is an absolute failure and the EU mechanism, which you mention. Let's keep that in this paper, too. If this is the most general paper and if you have defined earlier that there will be a regional training centre and it will be Nis, why in no word did you mention co-operation with the Russian Federation? The co-operation has already been established and existed both last year and this year, compared to the lack of co-operation with your European mechanism. So someone in the Republic of Serbia is obstructing what is and how it is necessary for the citizens of Serbia, who, from what you have written here, from what we discussed today when we discussed the budget or when we discuss next year's budget, clearly conclude that we as a state do not have enough resources to organise most of these elements that relate to emergency situations. We had an offer, we accepted that offer, and then someone's doing that obstruction. Those words that the minister said last night very angryly: "If the Russians can put out a fire in Italy, Spain, Greece, and they can't put out in Serbia, who cares about it," and the foreign minister also said last night that all those who see a Russian military base are wrong. True, the bases exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but they are in some other places and they are occupational and certainly enemy armies to us. When we follow that, when we read that strategy, when we see that you leave out such things, then everything you wrote absolutely loses its meaning, because we can also underline this under the domain of daily politics. In many things, and if you tried to point out these problems, especially in this annex, this strategy is a list of good wishes. My opinion is that you first have to work on the laws, because the laws are binding, but before that you might respect certain things that you didn't have in mind when you wrote this strategy. For example, the RHMZ site in the strategy is not precisely defined. There are certain problems here. It was not included in the strategy the most important thing, because it comes after the law, and these are the exact criteria for dangerous meteorological phenomena and criteria for adverse meteorological phenomena. Why is this important? Then in law, depending on that, procedures and legal obligations would be prescribed. For example, one of those obligations is damages. There is this meteor alarm, and there are also no clear criteria for these phenomena, and then by ensuring the institutions have no obligation to pay for the damage, because there are no clear criteria. Here you said, which is good, that in Serbia 28 automatic meteorological cells were installed. However, one remark related to these radars. It is true that there are 13 meteorological radars, but there are only three in the territory of the Duke's modern technology radar. The radar system should certainly be organized throughout the year to monitor the weather, to announce all meteorological phenomena, not to work only six months a year for the purpose of firing at clouds. Here I have prepared for the Minister of the Interior a small analysis of the anti-building protection and what are the open issues, but since he hasn't come, I'm going to hand it to him on another occasion. It's still one area, I'm just letting you know, which should be subject to one big analysis on your part, not just about the crime that exists there and various lobby groups. I'll read you countries where there's no anti-urban protection. When you mentioned the EU, it did not send you any recommendations on anti-urban protection. Countries that do not have organised anti-building protection and which are not funded: Israel, Sweden, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, France, Poland, Switzerland, Belarus, Armenia, Spain, Ireland, Romania, Finland, Portugal, Turkey, etc. Countries that do so in a similar way are countries in the environment, Bulgaria, Hungary, Croatia, Russia, Serbia. There's organized anti-urban protection and it's funded by the state. Regarding the same anti-urban protection, when you wrote this strategy, everything seems to me to study one from this year 2011, and this study on the impact of weather conditions on the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and the anti-urban protection modality, financed by USAIT, which was promoted in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce on 16 June. During this time, Ru Faro, director of USAIT agrobusiness, stressed that the purpose of the study mentioned was the recommendations and implementation plan, and that the study clearly and systematically lists all the steps Serbia must take if it wants to protect and protect agriculture, human resources, material goods from the city. But when this strategy of yours is read, it's obvious that you didn't plan this study. As far as these other things are concerned, especially as far as the annex itself is concerned, you've made it true in which laws are regulated, but obviously that if this coordination doesn't work, it's going to have to work a lot harder on even preparing and amending certain laws. As far as resources are concerned, it is clear here that Serbia will not be able, perhaps even in due course, to allocate enough resources to fit all the authorities in the strategy in the way you planned, and that it could function as a coordinated system. (President: 20 minutes. Just one more sentence. However, if priorities are set, which certainly needs to be done by some expert team that will eventually form a government, it could be with the funds allocated for this purpose to do much more than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62122	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62123	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the President-in-Office, the respected representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, are here today, so the proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations and a proposal for a law on the residence and residence of citizens. At the beginning of my discussion, I will say that in many situations I congratulate Mr. Marić on the so much commitment and great torment he has in the most likely most difficult circumstances and with the means he has, above all, for many natural disasters, and above all for two fires, since I am an MP from the King, on the Mountain of Tables and around the mouth, the great elemental disasters that have practically hit that end. I would also like to congratulate all the members of the fire departments and the citizens who participated in these fires and fortunately, all of this has been stopped in some way. I also have to tell you this, don't take this the wrong way and as a joke, the citizens would surely forgive you for at least working, but if you have a normal salary and for sure every citizen in Serbia who turns off TV when he sees you on the screen has to turn up TV, you have a job description, and we're probably all kind of scared when we see you, but fortunately, very much, and at the end of all these events, when you turn to the citizens of Serbia and when you say it's okay, we all take a break. So, in the very introduction to material, this part of the second paragraph, the region of Southeast Europe is increasingly at risk of various kinds of natural dangers and then all of these dangers are quoted, but I think there should be fires, regardless of whether it can be interpreted as extremely high temperatures and some other things that can lead to that, I think you failed to leave out one sentence, or one of the words that is most representative and powerful. This may have been written in some period of earlier years when there were not so many fires in Serbia, but when we see that every day we are practically more exposed because of climate change and because of many other things that are happening, then surely there was room there. I had the opportunity, Mr. Maric, to go through practically, and of course I actively informed myself, through Mr. Kočević who was in the King what was going on in these fires, but I couldn't help but think of one impression, the way it was shut down, in my opinion it's still below the level, with those helicopters, with those big bags that catch water. I'm asking another question, whether in all these laws, I have to say that I'm not an expert on it, but I'm going to ask one logical question, what would have happened in the situation if there hadn't been that little Wire Lake at King's, at the Zice monastery, where those helicopters were catching water. Or I'm asking a question for those environments that don't have the ability to catch water or artificial lakes naturally, whether it's covered by a national strategy that has to in a certain part that there's something like that or probably there's environments that don't have either one or the other. I think if it wasn't then it should be predicted this or some future strategy because if it wasn't for that lake, the fact is that it would probably be caught from Lake Gružan, but because of the time distance, because of the sureness of time we would lose, this is what I'm saying when it comes to helicopters, and certainly because of all these events, as my predecessors have said, I need special planes that have the opportunity to catch more water first and to act better. So, in this opening strategy, everything here that's been put in, the floods of droughts, extremely high temperatures, earthquakes, slides, storm accidents, there's practically not one thing that's been mentioned here that hasn't hit Serbia in recent years, including an earthquake that's been very strong and has hit the King as well. So, with a few remarks and a desire to see you as little as possible, I would like to point out once again that Serbia is safe because of the frequent fires that require the procurement of special aircraft because in such situations we should not depend on anyone and certainly thank anyone who in these situations helps our country. When we talk about the draft law on residence and residence, the minister is right there, surely it is good and that one of these laws is defined precisely for many reasons, both administrative and judicial proceedings and other matters. I would like to remain in particular, Mr. Minister, on Article 18 that it is an extremely important institute, so that the visating of residence and residence, whose introduction is foreseen by Article 18. It's a bill of law. In this article, however, there is one indiscretion. A reasonable question arises as to how the decision on the passiveisation of the residence address will be sent to a person who, in most of these cases, does not know at all where he is, which, of course, recalls and how the fine provided for in Article 27(1) of the Law proposal will be charged. Speaking of passive address, it's very interesting to defend Article 29. The bill, where citizens of former SFRY republics also mention nationals of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY. Whether it is meant by the former state unions of Serbia-Montenegro, in a wide variety of forms or by something else. Article 11(2) of the Law does not make it very clear what is meant by a permanent residence when a residence process is established by the competent authority, where there is no standard basis provided for in Article 1 of this Article. We have suggested that Article 13 be deleted. The law, since we do not see how it is possible for the competent authority to reliably determine the existence, i.e. there is no intention of permanent residence at a specific address. In Article 24, we have proposed to revise the data that will be contained in the police records of the residence, or residence. We do not believe that it is necessary and that, to a large extent, it enters the privacy of each individual, keeping records of his marital status or occupation, otherwise Serbia would literally become a police state, although it has already been characterized to a good extent by such historical state formations, and this, in particular, takes into account quite broad and undefined formulations in Article 25. The bill, which provides for the provision of this data in the widest range of legal entities. So, in this debate, we have pointed to some misunderstandings when it comes to this law. Surely we have submitted a large number of amendments, the NS parliamentary group has submitted amendments and we think that we will have an understanding for them and that we will to some extent correct this law. I underline once again that Serbia needs one such law and that it is good to finally have some situation, when the bill on the residence and residence of citizens in the Republic of Serbia is regulated. I thank you, and I hope you will carefully consider our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62124	It was used nine minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62125	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also at first take the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Marić on all the great things and great actions he has carried out under difficult circumstances and I am glad to see you once in a day in a suit in the Assembly and to do so as much as possible, and the rarer in those places where there are dangers from certain verses, etc. Unfortunately, in this place we have to end up with praises, first of all because these two documents that are at the beginning of this new session, and first of all this national strategy on protection and rescue in emergency situations, and I don't think it meets the key elements or criteria that would have to have the very text of a national strategy, but rather the way it is presented here and the issues that must be covered in order to respond to the demands set out in such an important document. I, like some colleagues before me, find it difficult to understand the situation that we are having a debate today on the national strategy and protection and rescue in emergency situations, without practically not mentioning in one word the important event that took place yesterday in Nis. It is practically the key or central, or at least the most in the media advertising and advertising center, the space where stationed troops, or forces, units, all those equipment that should help in emergency situations when it comes to shutting down and solving the consequences of the fires most in this area of environmental or other catastrophes and disasters that you listed in this document. I don't think that's good, although my motives for this kind of intervention are completely different from those of MP Bozidar Delic. He is proud and bothered that Russia and co-operation with the Russian Federation were not specifically mentioned. It also bothers me, not because I think you're hiding something, but because I don't think it's normal to enter such an important project, because all the time in public there are very serious speculations and suspicions that it's not about that object as well as the official board on it, but that all the time it implies that it's kind of a broader base or hope that there's going to be some kind of military base. These speculations are not in themselves harmful and it is always good to be in society or in state institutions, to talk about it. Our problem is that we are not talking about it, which is very often in our country for the past few years, much more openly and clearly speaking about it, than our officials say. When the foreign minister, perhaps it's too harsh, but I think he was too harsh and unserious, I mean Minister Jeremic when he spoke of that base, when at the level of the joke he mentioned his remark that there are already military bases on our country's territory, then I think it's the duty of other institutions in this country to react. That part of the public that still sees Serbia's possibility as some kind of zone of influence where different types of security troops will be stationed, see in it their chance or see some kind of response to the situation in KIM territory, I assume that Mr Jeremic meant that they are international troops, which are not the enemies of this country and of this people. After all, I think at these very moments or these days, that the fate of the people of KIM, the fate of the people depends greatly on the behaviour of these units and these troops, and I don't think it's either politically or nationally responsible for the state officials talking about them in this way, whether they see a short-term or long-term opportunity for their own promotion, sometimes very openly, contrary to what the official policy of this country is. When it comes to Kosovo's space, there are a few more problems, there are problems everywhere around us, and it is seen that the consequences of its non-resolvement are seen in every document that this parliament adopts, and even in this national strategy proposal, from the most banal things, that you can say in one place what the territory of this country is and what the number of inhabitants of this country are, calling for the 2002 census, and that you have waited a few more weeks, you could use the results of this just finished list. Each of us knows that this is not the total area or territory in which Serbia's MUP, generally the entire system of protection and rescue in emergency situations, can intervene, affect or control. On the other hand, when it comes to co-operation in the region or co-operation with other similar services, a whole spectrum of organisations, units in charge or emergency authorities, there is no provision of any kind of co-operation towards that part of the territory, to use the government's formulation, which is administered by international forces. I think that this is a very important issue and that most of it, or that a large part of the emergency situation can arise either in that territory or in that part of Serbia's territory, the Republic of Serbia, which is gravitating in that area and bordering it. Generally, to paraphrasise what the President of the Republic did last night correctly, I think he said that the state of emergency never did any good. I think it was imprecise, because there are situations in our recent past, in 2003, when the smart implementation of the state of emergency has brought many good things, and I think the president meant the situation, the emergency situation and some kind of chaos of other phenomena in society that lead to citizens' anxiety. I think it's the biggest problem in this country, right now, and that's because on the one hand they don't feel that the state and its institutions care enough about them, and on the other hand, this feeling, that they're practically 20 years living in an emergency or an emergency situation. You have, for understandable reasons, but also the responsibility of ministers who represent the law here and in general the Government to correct it, very little talked about political conditions and political risks that very often determine both the quality and speed and success of State intervention and its institutions in many emergency situations. Since yesterday's incident or events in Jagodina, which was not so massive, so it cannot enter into the domain of an emergency in terms of relevance for this strategy, but its consequences for citizens' anxiety, the question of how the state authorities behave or what potential dangers children are being brought into this country, is much more important than this paper that is written in a quality or in a less quality way, which we are about to adopt today. You can see that at the end of this day. You will also see the number of comments in Serbian media and you will see in the timing of television journals and news what the theme schedule will be. Whether we have or whether you have in the ruling coalition political problems to admit some of these mistakes to some of the system's weaknesses you admit. I think you have to do it right now. We are a country that was first in a state of virtually constant war, first in its immediate environment, and finally in 1999 and in its territory. A country that has been through terribly traumatic situations since 2003 to 2004 as well as the murder of prime minister and the state of emergency. After that, the situation that took place in Kosovo began in 2004. Finally, the situation in 2007, 2008, in 2009, when every little one not only on the streets of Belgrade, but in the streets of many places and cities in Serbia was practically ruled by some kind of emergency that was resolved in a less successful or relatively painless way from a technical, police, state-wide perspective, but which left very serious consequences and a very real risk of doing so again at some subsequent point of risk. Finally, I think a strategy like this must include that set of solutions or decisions and states and other social institutions. I purposely insist on that description that would define what must happen or be done in the event of a proud parade or any other similar high-risk event. If I am not mistaken, tomorrow we will have another gathering in Belgrade where one social group or organisations that intend to represent that social group in front of state institutions simply want to point out their position or the situation to feel insecure. And this strategy and the way it is presented in public simply has to answer these questions. Finally, one of the last questions I want to talk about is the issue of solidarity between societies or states in difficult crisis situations. I think there was room in this document to talk about whether the sustainability of this neutrality as it is now in force for Serbia, or as it is now declared. We have a general problem with a whole series of documents and policies and strategies that we adopt in this area. Ninety-five percent of this document, Mr Markovic, is based on European standards, on very serious and close co-operation with Western partners, less on those standards that are today characteristic not only of the EU but also of NATO countries. Since we still have this vengeful view that NATO is, first of all, a military alliance and not an alliance or alliance of the military-political states that should intervene both in emergency situations and in times like this, at times of risk, then I think that, by some inertity in all documents, you avoid a debate on the subject that you believe is unpopular in the public or a subject that can cause polarisation of the public. No matter what it is in some sense true, I don't think we'll have a good strategy, we won't be able to act in these situations in a continuously good way if we avoid that important segment. In order for the state, and our country, to need help in crisis situations, then I guess it has to give that kind of assistance to other countries that are threatened and that I mean not only our neighbours, but every other people or every other society, the state, who are at some point threatened. Within those capacities that you have, we are trying to do this in every situation, but I think it would also be a very clear political message for this country that we are ready to participate in an internationally solidarity way and in actions concerning the prevention, prevention and punishment of terrorism and in all other actions that are related to the avoidance or resolution of the consequences of severe emergency situations, elemental disasters, etc. Otherwise, we're losing efficiency. In this country we're building a highway five or ten times longer than some other countries do. We also resolve the consequences of, say, NATO bombings much longer than some countries have done since the armed conflict. To situations that I'm not going to say banal, that would be too harsh a word, but by its intensity, they're less than they were similar disasters in other countries, our reaction is much slower. Mr. Markovic has a huge engagement and every honour to it, over the aftermath of the earthquake in the King, but if God were not given at the same time or at the same time, several such tragedies happened in different parts of this country, Mr. Markovic, alone or with several associates on a less unfortunate basis, you would not be able to solve all these problems or be in all those places, as well as that current budget reserve from which the money was allocated would certainly not be enough to cover all those resolutions. I was completely shocked when I saw in Valjev 15 days ago that there were major earthquake problems, 12 or 13 years ago, if I remember correctly, and today there's a practical agency called or a company, I don't know what to call it, the Valjev Earthquake Directorate. This means that not all the consequences of this unfortunate event have been resolved, although the resolution of these consequences has been practically a subject of less every campaign since then, than those bizarre abuses that occurred when the event itself occurred in another time or under another political regime, but also later practically at any time when some kind of political point was to be collected or to send a message to people that everything would finally be okay. It actually shows that there is no formed system that can react quickly and efficiently in any situation. It was a great idea that was announced at one point, the introduction of a unique number for these situations that citizens can address, etc., but when this introduction takes too long and when we listen too often to this announcement, it kind of grows into its own opposite. I think that citizens have a sense of enthusiasm and some sense of security because of the fact that the state will finally introduce such a practice. If we look at this data that we have listed, which shows the number of events that have these elements of accidents or natural disasters, it has been significantly increased in 2009, rather than when it comes to the period since 2001 or 2002. At the same time, those data that show the willingness of the state authorities, the fill-up of the MUP, are not good enough or they are certainly not optimistic, and therefore I think that this is one less sublime sentence. Finally, the implementation of this strategy will provide money in the Republic of Serbia's budget is simply not enough. It does not mean anything and it meets the minimum criteria for this to go past the Ministry of Finance and not to be assessed as something that threatens today's solemnly adopted budget rebalancing, but tomorrow, you know it well, when you have to get equipment for your unit or intervene somewhere on the ground, hoping that these parts of the MUP will not be able to announce any kind of protest very quickly, cease work, etc. This greatly devalues the efforts that exist and the less correct descriptions or technical depictions of those risks ahead of Serbia. Not to mention, if I talk about the quality of the text, it may be too little attention to the consequences, although it is not the purpose of this document to talk about the causes, the reasons, the proportions, the possible dangers of a terrorist attack, but also the consequences of which it certainly belongs in this area. It's kind of weird to me. I see that BIA's director at the ceremony has devoted a significant part of his exposure or success to the very threats that BIA faces either our country or our society in general. The LDP's intention to consider above all this strategy is not opposition, it may be excessive to say to the political party that its intention is noble, but our interest in the future was to avoid risky situations and avoid any kind of unnecessary speculation about whether the citizens of this country for money that separates from the name of the tax can count on peace, security, security and rapid intervention of state authorities in crisis situations and whether it will all end for those inevitable images that I believe are not pleasant, but shortly after the event or after the accident, and that after that people remain left to themselves. In a country that is poor in this way, it is not easy to either lead this kind of policy or run these sectors, but even if what we can offer to citizens is a kind of responsibility, or a willingness to often and risk some kind of popularity to make decisions that are necessary for this country and necessary for its future, so if this is true of a policy towards Kosovo or a policy towards the EU, then this applies to all those organisations or integrated processes that can help us live more peacefully, safer, safer, and finally get out of this mess that has been following us for 20 years. That's why I think this document must have a place to consider all the advantages that this country would achieve if it made a decision to start NATO integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62126	18 minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to use their rights and speak in this part of the session? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62127	I thought her colleague wanted to speak before, and she wasn't accepted, so if she did, I'd be happy to let her.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62128	If there is a technical problem, and National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic wants to speak, it is no problem, just please sign up again. My apologies. The MP's unit is obviously not right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62129	I also apologize to my colleague Tabakovic, and to the honourable fellow Members of the People, something was really going on with my parliamentary unit. So today there are two very important documents ahead of us. The first is the draft law on residence and residence of citizens. The second document is called the National Emergency Protection and Rescue Strategy. It's simple, I'd like someone to explain to me what that element was that brought these two points together into a united debate. It's very strange that these two important documents are joined at one point in a debate, and it's even weirder that there isn't a minister of the ministry from which these proposals came, which is the MUP. We would very much like to discuss this with the minister who is authorized to talk about this, because we think that both documents, both laws and national strategies and how important and we would like to get some answers that we expect to get when the law of the minister is authorized here. I'll start with this national strategy first. You noticed that most of my colleagues, previous authorised representatives, spoke about a national strategy. This is very clear because we have a very important document ahead of us. This assembly does not have a very often chance to talk about strategy and therefore it is even more important to be ahead of us, and especially the topic of this national strategy – protection and rescue in emergency situations deserves to be devoted to 20 minutes of time that an authorised representative can get. Unfortunately, I won't have that much time to talk about these two laws, so I'm going to narrow my story down to what I think is most important. First, I will also commend Mr. Maric and his sector, since I assume they proposed, practically wrote a proposal ahead of us. The written text is very professional, very concisely speaking about problems, very precise, well, clearly distinguishes everything that should have one strategy. We've seen a lot of strategies in different places. Among them are some who came from abroad. This is one of the best we could see here. What's very interesting to me is that all the resources this country has are fully identified and fully objectively described. It's not often when we get a chance to see the laws. Here things are more beautiful than they are. Here, in this strategy we talk about things the way they actually are. That's good, because when we know what we're on, then we can get out of it. As long as we're telling stories, there's no movement. What I'm afraid of here is that behind all this stuff that you've written here, based on some of the other strategies that have been brought into this country, of course, primarily on the National Sustainable Development Strategy. This is a document for which I have to ask a question, here, Minister Markovic, what will I do when there is no other document – how long has it been since the implementation of the National Sustainable Development Strategy? Is that document still valid in this country? I'd be happy to respond to the replica if I had to. I'd like to know where the problems are, why she's not being implemented the way it's written. Now, what makes me afraid this is gonna be a dead letter on paper? Because I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Maric several times, namely his boss, Mr. Dacic, when it came to the elemental disaster, the city in the Kolubar County and not only in the Colubar County and when it was reported in May this year that all the rockets needed to prevent the weather were exhausted, when Mr. Maric came out very openly and said – I need 12,000 of these rockets. Afterwards, we received information that the ministers admitted that there were enough 3,000 missiles, so we finally realized that the rocket would be gone at all. That's why I'm afraid this is going to be a dead letter on paper, because we have, first of all, very few people and you're citing it, from firefighters and all the other trained people, very few people. There are other people to be hired, but this government prefers to employ them in the administration rather than bring them to you, Mr. Maric, in your sector. Then, training these people and what it costs. You say the state of training - that people are unprepared, untrained. Training and what it costs. Let's not kid ourselves that we'll be in a position to get donations in training from this, that. It can't be the way to plan people's training if someone's gonna give you a donation. Then our infrastructure is catastrophic and you clearly apostrophe, where, in which places. Let's just say, we're going to talk about how we're going to prevent the floods, but to prevent the floods, we need to take out water streams, embankments that haven't been maintained in 30 and 50 years. We need to clean the channels, and now we're still arguing whether they're the jurisdiction of the Republic or whether they're the jurisdiction of local self-government. You know, it all sounds very nice, but you know best what all of this looks like in practice. I'm very skeptical that this strategy, which is good as a document, will ever come to life in this country, with this government, which survives from today to tomorrow, and rags holes just to survive, not to do something officially nice and good for the citizens of Serbia. Now I'm going to move on to this second document called the residence and residence bill. I'd like to say one thing. I'll start with the good things this bill makes. There aren't many of them, so I'll talk about them for a while. It is good that this law is before us today, for 34 years is practically in force of the law that is in force today, the Law of residence and residence. It's the oldest legal act in the MUP. It is also good that, in practice, this bill will round up legal reform in the area of the personal status of citizens, but it is not good that this proposal does not comply with the previous laws that have been passed in this area, for example, the Law on the ID card, although it explains that it is. I'm going to state exactly what this is based on if it isn't. It is also good that we are talking about this today, because it is the right for citizens to have a registered residence, residence and residence of one of the basic human and civil rights from which some other rights arise – the issuing of a ID card, the issuing of a travel document, driving and traffic permits, and beyond the possibility of paying tax taxes, the use of the possibility of social and health insurance, up to the local jurisdiction of courts and other state authorities. There is one more good thing about this law, this law has tried to solve the problem of a truly large group of people in this Serbia, who has no ID and which is a problem, not only for themselves, but also for their own country, because there is no residence registered and compared to that, it has no documents. People living in informal settlements without the possibility of using public services, without infrastructure, do not have the opportunity to turn to services to regulate their residence, because their settlements are informal. So they don't live legally in these settlements. They have no place of residence or residence, so anything else that comes out of it is a problem. No other document can be obtained, starting with an ID card, and so on. We in Serbia do not exactly have a record of how many people we have in this status, therefore, that there are no personal documents, but it is evident that it is a very large number of people and that this problem affects children who are the most vulnerable group and they are particularly exposed to various risks, for example, from abuse to human trafficking, from exploitation. Unfortunately, these are all the problems that exist in Serbia. The exclusion of children starts from the birth of a child. Their parents, of course, have no documents, no citizenship, and can't register their own child in the birth certificate, so the child doesn't have a health book. The next day when she goes to school, she can go to preschool and elementary school, but at the end of that school, she can't get a witness about her finished education. He can't continue school because he doesn't have a certificate. He can't get a job, he can't start an official marriage. So we're going in a vicious circle that, as you can see, is very difficult for an individual who belongs to that group of people and that human status to get away with. Therefore, the responsibility of the state is greater and the state and must make it possible for all its citizens to have the same human rights and civil rights, and this is one of these basic ones. The right to freedom of movement, which includes the right to residence, i.e. the choice of residence, is one of the fundamental constitutional rights, and relies on many international documents and on the international conventions that we have signed, for example, the Declaration of Human Rights, a very important document. The state has long failed to respect the status of two citizens. One who has the legal right of residence and residence and others who live in informal conditions and who do not have that legal right of residence and the legal basis of housing. This is practically the first time that the state has tried to meet all of this and has seen the problem. However, the problem was seen under the pressure of a large number of NGOs who dealt with the problem and who indicated to the state that it really had to solve the problem if it wants to see the EU. In my humble opinion, we really call in this regard to the EU, in order to ensure that our citizens are entitled to their residence and give them personal documents, there is really no need, because I believe that one serious state must take care that all its citizens have personal documents, because otherwise, as such in legal theory, the state needs to know where its citizens are. For this reason, and I also mentioned these NGOs, NGOs have spoken to the MUP several times, asking them to deliver a draft law which was known in public to be prepared and called for, of course, the law on the availability of information, the law that is very important to you and us here, because all citizens have the right to receive information from all state institutions and institutions. So on two public talks, the ministry replied that they had no draft law. I see now that a proposal of the NGO sector has been put into law, so I'm very interested, so where is the law written if it wasn't in the MUP? Who wrote the law? That's why we miss Mr. Dacic today, but I guess today, because of this incident in Jagodina, he didn't like to see the MPs, especially to answer their questions. So my question is, who wrote the law? Serbia has faced several affairs in the past few years of this government, with the fact that in certain parts of Serbia, I am talking about Meroshina, personal documents have been resold, mostly to Albanians, and that some police officers have participated in the resale of personal documents. Mr. Minister then promised that all these affairs would be resolved, that documents issued on the basis of abuses, i.e. false data, would be sanctioned and withdrawn. I'd like to get an answer that Mr. Secretary here today, how long has it been with these affairs? How many documents have been withdrawn? How much of these documents have been issued in the first place? I would especially like to get information – what happened to those police officers who took part in all this? That was commendable and so much for them. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about what the law says, and what the DSS sees the problem. We have several such principled objections. The basic lack of this law refers to the way in which residence and residence is defined and determined. It is clear to us that you had to take care of the public interest. You're from that position and you're off. On the other hand, there is the other sex and it is called – rights and freedoms of citizens. In that balance, you had to find the right measure, and that right measure is called a democratic state. Citizens have the right to freely choose their place of residence and place of residence. You can't give exclusive and discretionary rights to any service in the MUP, as it is said in the people, that it decides and that it tells where a man who doesn't want to be in that residence is staying. For example, I like to talk about examples, because then you understand me and especially the citizens understand me. Like, I live in Valyev and I can't find a job in Valyev. I have a house in Valyev, and my family lives in Valyev. I'm looking for jobs. I'm getting it in Belgrade. Everything, the center of my economic interests, professional interests, as you say in law, is now Belgrade. You're gonna tell me I can't live in Valjevo and my place can't be Valjevo, or you're gonna pass on my place of residence. It's just that there's a problem here. You between real life and finding opportunities for people to earn, to survive, because today, unfortunately, in this government, we don't have the opportunity to work in the places we live. We don't have jobs there either, we don't have jobs anywhere else, because unfortunately, people here just get fired. This is now a problem. Keep going. You say, in law – the application of stay shall be valid for a maximum year. It's the harassment of citizens. Nor are police administrations able to adequately, at European level, quickly and qualitatively meet citizens' demands, and you know it. I don't see why you set European deadlines for citizens, but you don't set European deadlines for police administrations. I ask you to respect the amendment that we have submitted and that it is five years enough to remain in this proposal. It is strange, too, to forget that, because in the previous ID law, the promoter allowed citizens to have ID cards without chips. You're now saying how you're going to get the change of residence into your ID cards. How are you going to get them in? With a flomaster? No, it can't. You have to change them. So you didn't guess what you wrote in the previous law. One more comment. In many members you say – the complaint against the solution does not delay the execution of the solution. Excuse me, what's going on with these solutions? Nothing's running out, you get a negative solution. Negative administrative acts cannot be executed. You're here playing with the position of power and force and you predict how things will go in the judiciary. In article 10, you don't say anything about who all the papers and evidence are, you know, the citizen should contribute to the application of his residence, and you say he'll have a sanction if he doesn't, and you're bringing the citizens into a really awkward position. Not only from the police administration to the police administration, but in one police administration, it's different from an officer to an officer what he's going to ask you to offer, bring to the attention, etc. They'll give you back five thousand times until he's satisfied with what he's come up with. So you have to say what you want, what documents they're, and then everything's fine. We have also attached the amendment to you. The most scenic and dangerous member in this law is Article 18. It's a dangerous provision for solifying residences and residences. I remind you of our Constitution, Article 39(1), which says: "Citizens have the right to freedom of movement, which includes freedom of residence." Take care of this. The way you defined article 18 won't solve the problem, but it will make one legal uncertainty, because you really give too much authority and discretion to the police. Then, personal data protection. You list what all of the records need to contain, so you read there, etc., that I don't waste time. You're asking me to, if I'm going to report my stay, I need to tell you if I'm married and I want to tell you my profession. Why? What does that have to do with me looking for a place to stay? So, one study that has been published in public, which shows how much personality data, which you don't need to collect at all, collects various services, and, among other things, the police, you show in action. To stop for a moment and say one more thing. What will this law lead to? He needs to solve some matter, solve these people's problem without personal documentation, but he'll make everyone else so confused, lead to great legal uncertainty, interpretation and free interpretation of various police administrations. Different police officers will ask you for different documents, and you will be completely as a citizen unprotected to the police, and otherwise you feel so often in front of the state and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62130	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62131	First of all, it is interesting that today, when journalists initiated the topic in the assembly hall about how successful the strategy against the white plague was, and that the list allegedly showed that we were in fact less, the question of the usefulness and purpose of the strategies that we are bringing. That doesn't mean your strategy isn't good. No, on the contrary, as the other participants said, it is excellent, as the 2007 strategy was brought in at the end of the year to fight the white plague was a solid basis for fighting the white plague. As is the export strategy made so that it can be signed by any professional and honest economist, politician or anyone who understands that matter. What's the problem? Great strategies as the basis from which concrete solutions, clear, unequivocal, are to be converted into two parallel tracks that are nowhere to be met. When it comes to the fight against the white plague, everything that was meant to be, the protection of pregnant women, the protection of motherhood, the relief of that in terms of reducing VAT to what was meant to be for raising children, has become in fact double taxation of pregnant women, entrepreneurs who go on sick leave. So the very concept of strategy in all of us has created doubt, especially that you've left us so much time to discuss it, that the government actually tells one story and the other specifically works and implements. Fortunately for us, what is called an emergency strategy in the area where you manage is something that is the legacy of what, for years, let me remember, civil protection and those good achievements, which you rightly inherited and carry out quite successfully. My concern in realising this strategy is primarily related to what is called the emergency situation in Serbia for a long time, and this is a lack of funds in the right places. I claim there's enough money in this country in this economy, but it's very badly distributed and under-controllable. Someone had every right to write a letter, an older man officer, and send it to all the MP groups, and he said, "Is it not a shame that someone is going to the soldier's attention and wearing a 660-euro shoe, while a soldier is going in a evicted shoe?" As your fellow officers live, survive, in what kind of uniform, wardrobe and shirts go and with what means you need to carry out the anti-urban protection they have loaded on your cargo, it's a shame to say, but only God help you. But we should not call on God for help, because, you, the ministry, and we, the Assembly, and we should have control over the money that has the vault of the Republic of Serbia's budget and help you to keep everything that is the subject of procurement for your sectors open, competitive, accessible to everyone, and that what is really a request to be closed behind a door in a zone that implies security and not general familiarity and elements and what is offered, that it remains behind closed doors. This is how you who do a really necessary, important and important job get into a situation to suffer and to be ashamed of those who don't respond where they should respond, because they abuse public funds, not allowing them to be used where they deserve to be. I'll give you a specific example. Yes, from the budget reserve is very often, i.e. when a budget reserve is formed it is by nature things are meant for a situation you cannot predict, so first it is said of natural disasters, disasters or what happens, because we cannot plan it, it is from God. There are now the latest achievements, so it is caused, but it is mostly an unpredictable and unplanned disaster. What do we face when we reach the DRI report, that these funds for emergency situations and disasters are actually used for privileged and individual budget users of certain local self-government? The general rule that the democracy of the rich has won and that the budget is filled by all and is spent on your case gets very negative orders from which we all suffer, and most of all those who have stayed in the destroyed houses for a long, unjustly long time, those who have had observations about how this aid is shared. It was personally the hardest thing for me to see you and your colleagues go into inadequate equipment to save and solve and such emergency situations. It doesn't matter if we have someone personal in your squad, but it is necessary that you, as the first among those you organise a job, and you will be successful if you impose the rules of conduct and if you build a team like that, and it is largely successful, but you respond to the consequences and you have to have minimum equipment and resources to have. How am I going to criticize you now because anti-urban protection wasn't done in time and when someone says there are three missiles in reserve and that's why the crops of citizens are affected? I can't criticize you. You know that was the responsibility of someone who didn't know what to do with the money. What's called the whole of the sky's control and hand of the sky over this Serbia, the money that's being taken over by flying over that sky and the one who's supposed to be responsible for it. Yes, that part of the Air Force Directorate was in charge of anti-urban protection. They gave it to you nicely. Why didn't they give you some money? I have no reason to defend a man at all, to defend an institution, that's my principled relationship. Why did you, as the Ministry of the Interior, take the right to work, choose who would print personal documents, so this job was given to Mil Bauer, who manufactures press machines, and the job of printing implies the whole? To be clear, it would be like you in the police ordering your shirts for your officers to sew "Bagat", which only manufactures "Bagat" machines, instead of some confectious house that deals in the whole business, from buying textiles to selling. What's left of you? Even a payment is not paid to you, but it goes to money coins, to the Bureau for making bills, where we know that more than the cost of costing these documents were paid to citizens in such a crisis and in what is really called – extraordinary circumstances, which is a lack of funds, much higher prices of all the legislations that you, whether you wanted or not wanted, were hit by the public. You were asked to ask for new traffic permits, you were supposed to ask for new plates, you're asking for new IDs. Who seals them and who earns them, and who suffers for it? You. Now I don't regret much of you, like you, for not fighting for yourself. You know what I'm ashamed of? Here, Mr. Novakovic is my fellow citizen, I am ashamed of the ranks of two police administrations in Novi Sad, when it comes to going to replace a driver's license or do something with that documentation. For us, Novosadjan, it's an emergency. He gets up at five o'clock in the morning to take a seat in line and get that document up. I don't have an answer. I don't expect him from you either. Why was an important branch of the state brought into such a situation? Why does it agree, and who will be responsible for the citizens suffering what funds they are investing in the budget are not allocated in the way they require the rules of basic behaviour? That's what you should be fighting for, when I say you, I don't mean your part that deals only with emergency situations, but the whole body that you belong to, where the replacement of the first man, as a political figure, must not disturb the functioning at all, not that, but any other ministry. We're all fighting for the professionalized administration, for professional bureaucracy, and then with various voluntary departures, stimulating people's departures, depriveing us of the highest quality personnel, leaving you to have maximum effects with the impossible number of people, that with the oldest possible car, which spends as much oil as fuel, you arrive and chase someone who drives 200 kilometers an hour. Will someone once start to pass a strategy that has a good basis into a law that will be applicable and look at least a little like that strategy? Let's get yours first. Choose that citizens, those who sow and look into the sky, look little at your equipment and do not worry when they sow something so as to say, even if anti-urban protection can be planned and remedied, rather than reacting like in floods or something like that. What's a special problem is what's in this agenda today. I just don't know if my colleagues want to spend their time in the most useful way agreeing to this kind of discussion or if they want to use their time, so they won't waste their time talking about the agenda and the way we do in the congregation. We're in a specific emergency situation. A 12-point session on the agenda is scheduled. Yesterday's new agenda of the session, where 27 points can be found, and in those 27 points, it is not those agreements that are confirmed, so a single debate, so let's accept, but also we, but you find the points – private-public partnership, concessions, you find the law on municipal action, mining and geological research, the bill on gambling, the amendments and additions to the State Council of Prosecutors and the Council of Justice, these are just reasons for resolution, it's not so terrible. But four or five key laws that need to regulate business, attract investors, we need to discuss through a joint debate in which today we only have a story about a strategy, which is, in principle, good, but it is – we have moved to apologize about the strategy. We have a bill on residence and residence for citizens. Then we have a special story, a five-hour debate for administrative inspection, which we had before, we got it in February of the month, we managed to study it, prepare the amendments, and for communal activities, public-private partnerships, a law that needs to regulate a way to make money so that you have anti-urban protection tomorrow, we'll talk about three, four points together, without the possibility and read what the law says. Or we have an opportunity to choose today when the agenda is adopted and to read these laws without paying enough attention to you. It's an emergency, it's a cartoon from the Assembly. Don't let anyone tell me that I used a harsh word, because if someone doesn't leave me an opportunity to talk about concession conditions, and that's the only thing that this country can pull out, like public works, infrastructure projects, from a crisis where it's been in and out of yesterday, but we only call on it when we have to justify bad results as a government, but we ignore it when we have to pay attention to it. Because of this and this agenda, which is not your fault, but I want you to know that one specific emergency government and here, the rest of the time I'm going to apply to the residence law and the way you tried to regulate most of the people that aren't registered, and we need to get them into legal flows. We know that this is a requirement, not only of the EU, but of the general need to register our citizens. Yes, it was necessary to do this more precisely. I'm going to make remarks about what you've defined with the apartment, that you didn't need the police administration, because everywhere it's the police administration, you're calling it the authorities at all, because, believe me, I immediately fear that some coin of money will take away your job, or it'll load you something that's dirty, hard, harsh and critical in front of the citizens. The way you define parents' consent if they don't have the same address, and that's where I have my objections. Unnecessarily regulating the truthfulness of the data when it's regulated by other laws. It's too short to report a residence, the way you treated minors, because the law defines it perfectly, so I'm going to put two or three remarks there. I think you've put the data on the faces here too wide and the conditions for the application of the residence aren't well defined. We have submitted the amendment, and we hope you will respect it. I think you've also left too much discretion in the way of determining the intention of someone constantly staying at the address they're reporting and that you've brought into a very uncomfortable position of the person who provides accommodation services, imposing an obligation on them to provide you with information regarding the residence application. In particular, I think the apartment should have been defined not only as any building facility suitable for staying, but also portable and mobile housing facilities set up in a permanent place, not only because there are installation facilities but because of the hidden conditions for obtaining loans for the Gazel bridge later learned about the obligation of this country to provide accommodation for those displaced by the Roma settlements. Then the question was, are these containers like moving containers, but it's possible to place them at a fixed location or were we obliged to build them objects in terms of apartments? So it's very important that you define the apartment in such a way that we can call all those people that you want to include in the application of the stay, really, and to write down in a way that where they live, we can call the apartment, because I think it's the interest of the state to identify the residences of all citizens. However, the concept of the apartment should be so widely defined that citizens who use some kind of apartment, on any basis, but live all the time, must be covered by this as if they live in residential buildings. I think it is very important that you include the Protector in this, because it was impossible to report a residence for some Serbian citizens, because he gave you a recommendation on how to resolve it. I don't think you've simply taken advantage of the possibility and the opportunity to regulate this through this law in the right way. You've prescribed an obligation to obtain the consent of another parent if parents live at two addresses and I think you've unnecessarily created conditions for harassing citizens, but also for over-work administration, and that may, God forbid, be at the expense of children's interests. If this provision were to be accepted, you would have to keep checking the address of another parent and, as you know, there are many life situations when it is very difficult, or impossible to obtain that other address, making it virtually impossible for children to exercise this right and to be registered with one of the parents. It is known that there are many marriages that are not officially divorced, and parents do not live together, nor do they have contact because of disturbed relationships. Did you have that when you said you needed the other one's consent? Also, there is a situation that children born out of marriage, parents have no contact with each other, they simply have no idea where the other parent is. Because of this bureaucratic regulation of complicated conditions, which simply doesn't care about reality, we believe that reporting a residence should be arranged as we have proposed, which means that the provision should be amended so that issues concerning child registration can best be resolved by the possibility that the other parent makes an appeal to himself and challenges the right of residence, but that the child registers at one of the parents' addresses. We asked for article 6 to be deleted because we believe that the obligation to provide true data is completely excessive, because you know that by law it is responsible for counterfeits, that it is punishable and that simply, there was no need for the law to be greater to enter it. We believe that the time limit for the application of the residence of eight days is really too short. So someone who has to report their residence has so many more pressing jobs, and for the state it's not an emergency job at all, and leaving a 30-day period won't do any significant damage in this sense at all. The citizen will make sure to report it the moment he is allowed to do so, because it is his interest to register and report the residence as soon as possible, with the punishments you measured for the untimely application being so drastically measured, for example. setting the penalty six times the average salary of Serbian citizens is indeed inappropriate, especially since the state does not suffer any harm in this regard, and we have suggested that these penalties be reduced as well. I'm sorry, I'm out of time, so I'm going to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62132	Yes, two minutes of Parliament time. You could have done that. Nothing bothers you. Since the representatives and heads of the parliamentary groups have finished participating, is there anyone else? No, I don't. Then we go according to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. I give my word to Vice President Judith Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62133	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a short range of this national strategy, protection and rescue in emergency situations, are being exhausted in the wake of reason, reaction and recovery. So why am I saying that? I found the material in the strategy itself, where, for one thing, it talks about the analysis carried out and the absence of an existing system of protection and rescue, and then, as shortcomings, it is referred to institutionally organisationally, for example, which I would like to list, the absence of conditions for consistent application of the rules, not the appropriate organisation and implementation of preventive measures, etc. One more three times. Then, materially technical deficiencies, let's say, not satisfactory levels of traffic and other infrastructures, outdated and unreliable equipment, etc. Then, cooperation and availability of information which includes insufficient coordination between the entities of the system of protection and rescue in emergency situations, etc. The next shortfall would fall to human resources and education, so the lack of specialised personnel, qualifications and technological discipline of available human resources, etc. is listed. So that's the first point why we think that this national strategy is actually just one reaction to the existing endangered security. Two, I would like to cite all the basic disasters that are mentioned and in the light of this strategy why it is necessary. These are earthquakes, noisy floods, gliding and slopes on slopes and slopes, adverse and dangerous atmospheric disasters, the city, drought, epidemic of infectious diseases, technical and technological accidents, the fact of dangerous matter, nuclear and radiation incidents, the consequences of terrorist acts. If you carefully analyze all these accidents, then we can conclude in common that only earthquakes are those that are not dependent on human factor. So, all of this rest depends on how much citizens, therefore, one state is affecting their environment, hence, and to what extent they threaten it, and then they produce all these consequences that fall into elemental disasters and actually result in people's life and health threats as well as causing major material damages. So these are all the elements that simply don't allow us to be overly optimistic, even though in this national strategy we can find a vision and a mission that is being drawn up by this national strategy and calls. So, if there is both vision and mission, then perhaps we could look a little more at the fact that floods are certainly largely dependent on all the ways in which the state refers to its natural resources, to river waterways, to the regulation of these waterways, to the drains that are important in agriculture, and that canals are very important for the agriculture of Vojvodina where we have several major channels that are, unfortunately, really devastated, so the great Bac Channel, for example, today is actually a sewer that flows through the Tower or through the Vrbas, and the recovery of that great Bac channel would only create an even bigger elemental disaster because simply that smudge would pose a significant threat to the environment than that vast toxic mud. The city today shouldn't pose any more serious danger and should not be a natural disaster if it would really be a little bit more worked to prevent that city from being in the shape of it, especially in the summer months, as you probably know. To call for drought today in agricultural production is at least lagging behind and somehow not applicable to modern production in agriculture, because there is among other things irrigation and this irrigation is a missing factor in our agriculture so that this national rescue strategy in emergency situations will in no case accelerate agricultural production by relieving some of the consequences of drought unless a little more serious work is taken to build and dig up these channels that would actually irriginate agricultural land. Unless a little more serious work is brought on the construction and excavation of these canals that would irrigate agricultural land. That's what I'm especially saying for this reason because reading here certain analyses and tables, the damage that happened by 2009 for the period 2002-2009, it's actually the biggest damage produced in agriculture, and that's what's worrying. What's worrying is that you've been mostly dealing with data since 2009 at the latest, I think it's not allowed to use data from the end of 2009, when such a national strategy is being done, what happened in 2010. Let's just say, it would be a good idea for those data to be found in the context of this national strategy. So, when, in addition to all the above-listed elemental disasters, an outbreak of infectious diseases is added, and we have in mind what problems the health system has with corruption and the last corruption affair with regard to vaccines against swine flu, and simply, this affair has not yet been completed and is still current, and it is not known whether or not it will actually be found and the real man who is actually the most responsible for all that has been going on in health for the past few years. So, all of these listed things have another big flaw as far as funding is concerned, because this funding comes down to funding from the Republic budget, as the local self-government is awakened, as we know, the republican budget has income and expenditure problems. Incomes have been significantly reduced, expenditure has been increased, so there is no large area of tuna. And local self-governments are already on the verge of existence, so it will be hard to find money to solve elementary disasters, which is usually seen in practice. So all these consequences, these elemental disasters, directly affect life, health and the standard of citizens. I would, in any case, cite another one of these natural disasters, which may not have been mentioned here but is very important for the future of this country. This is based on the unofficial results of Serbia's census, Serbia loses 20,000 citizens annually, it is an elemental disaster. Because what's actually going to happen to future pensioners if we don't have enough of a working-age population to earn these future pensions. What about the pensioners, how young you and we have won't be able to get a job. So this means that Serbia's future is that future pensioners will welcome generations without a future, because it's simply that every year we lose a large number of citizens, a united and young person we have in Serbia we can't hire and we can't make some economic turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62134	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic, not there, then Djordje Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62135	Thank you. The Honored Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as said among other things by the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary club, firstly the parliamentary club, in principle, of course and in voting day, will support the proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations, as we first consider it extremely important that Serbia finally gets one such national strategy, when it comes to emergency situations, such as fires, earthquakes, and icefields. In 2010 alone, if we remember, we had a large number of floods and many could have been predetermined and therefore we believe that the very important goal that this proposal aims to achieve is to reduce the risk, create disasters and mitigate their consequences, i.e. to raise existing capacities, above all in the context of preventive action. As is said among other things, the strategy refers to the period until 2016, and very precise strategic objectives have been defined to be achieved through the adoption of this national strategy. First, to ensure a normative – legal framework, to bring all sublegal and legal acts into line in this area into line with the EU's recommendations for the development of national protection systems, to improve the functional co-operation of all entities in order to respond to the fastest and most profitable and most important way, and what is extremely important, to create one basis and one stable basis for funding of this extremely important system. I think that in addition to people's education, this last-mentioned segment, or strategic objective, has a special significance, because funding problems certainly challenge the implementation of the set goals in one way, and above all I think about creating a service in line with the highest European standards, which is actually our ultimate goal. For a little while there's talk about the material position of employees, the height of wages, is an important question, and it's insufficient, but working uniforms in which firemen work daily have worn out. There is also a lack of protective equipment. One comparison that could be heard a few days ago in public, in five years, 80 specialized vehicles were purchased in Serbia, and for the same period, the time period, Croatia bought 220 vehicles. It is good that the MUP has quality international co-operation and that, thanks to this co-operation, there are certain donations. What is not good and what is necessary is determination, the commitment of the state, the complete government, and we expect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will show that responsibility the moment it creates the 2012 budget. When it comes to preventive action and raising existing capacities, it is very important to coordinate the work of both local and republican authorities. Local self-government, a little earlier on, has one particular importance and they must certainly improve the co-operation of all subjects at local level and this implies risk assessment and adequate risk reduction plans and, of course, response. A very important risk map is also a document that will define very precisely the areas in Serbia that are subject to elemental disasters, and the document should monitor the national strategy that has been discussed today. As far as the proposal for a law on residence and residence is concerned, it is already said that the laws that were passed in the period of SFRY are still in force in Serbia and only this fact indicates that it is clear that a longer period of time has been imposed imposing the need to adopt a new draft law that will regulate this area in an adequate manner and law that will be in line with the recently passed laws governing this area, such as the Law on ID cards, the Foreigners Act. On the other hand, in the European Commission's 2010 annual report, it is very clear that problems related to access to personal documents and, of course, the action plan defined the need to draw up a draft of this legislative proposal. The SPS-JS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal because we believe it is extremely important to create a legal framework that will allow people who do not have an address to exercise the right to have a ID card. So, for us, it is essential that Serbian citizens who have so far been unable to obtain the right to a personal map under the applicable rules because they did not have a permanent place of residence, because they did not have a permanent place of residence, by adopting this legal proposal, will be able to achieve this right. Not to mention that without personal documents, it is not possible to achieve those basic human and civil rights. So, thousands of Serbian citizens will no longer be legally invisible, as it is said, there will be no foreigners in their country, because we will have a law that will sort this area out in one quality way. Of course, the adoption of this legislative proposal will also contribute to the updating of personal data. At the very end, I would like to repeat once again that the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62136	I give my word to the MP John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62137	Dear President, I'm sorry there's no one from the government, i.e. Ministers, since we think it is very important that at least Minister Markovic, when he is in the building, attends this debate, because this sends a message that what we are talking about here today as MPs is not important at all, especially when it comes to the law on residence and residence, because it literally concerns all citizens. This ignoring of the National Assembly and this relationship to important laws is certainly something that speaks about the government itself and its relationship to the National Assembly. I will address the representatives of the ministry here and I will say that no matter what number of my colleagues here have highlighted the positive sides of the law, the solutions that are defined here, i.e. The way they define themselves will create huge problems in practice. The question is not only the technique applied here, but the real legal knowledge that was involved here in writing this bill. Of course, it is on the one hand and the intention of the legislator and the legislator to deliberately make some definitions, and the essence of this bill is definitions and the problem is crucial in definitions, so it sets out that it gives huge and broad rights to the police in the application of these provisions. All those who fought for the democratic state and the rule of law throughout history tried very hard to limit and specify standards concerning police authority. The escape from the police state was, in a legal sense, a very specific provision of police authority. Now that we're reading this law, I get the impression that with the very important rights that citizens have, we're going back to a time when the police decided everything and everything. Not to mention that in modern times, in addition to this discretionary law of the police, these standards create a great space for corruption, and I'm going to point that out through discussion. When it comes to the definition of residence, it's really unacceptable how you guys define what this place is. Since Roman law, it has been known that the basic way to define and determine the residence of a person is to keep his residence in a certain place. You now completely unfoundedly spread it, and besides intent, define the center of life activities, professional, economic, social and other connections that prove its permanent connection to the site. That's where the problem arises, because you're letting the police interpret this particular provision. If anyone says - I intend to live in one place, you say - no, there is not your center of your life activities, so I'm going to pass on to you that residence, so I'm going to tell you where you're going to stay. Given the difficult economic situation in which the state is in, given the huge problem we have with the migration of the interior to large centres, you are now going to force a large number of citizens to have a residence in the centers of the district or the large cities, and thus even bigger problems will be created on paper than the ones we now have. This is, in some ways, an introduction to Serbia's metropolisation. This is a huge problem. Of course, the question we've touched here is a matter of police authority. That's really not clear. Article 13 is a very controversial member and we will also talk about it in the debate, but that the competent authority refuses to report the residence until it is established that the citizen has an intention, is not clear how you will determine it? What is this procedure for you to determine if the citizen has any intention, if he says he has the intention and that his will is to live where his father was born, where his grandfather was born, and if he wants to have a place to live? No, you say the police will decide. In what way? You're going to have a serious problem here. There is still an additional problem, where there is simply no way to explain the following norms in Article 13. You say this will be regulated by a solution, and that's fine, that a complaint can be made to that solution, but that appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. Really, what's going on here? That's a negative solution. It can't be done. It's absolutely unclear who could have written something like this in law. As for Article 18, that's what my colleague used to say, I think that today a large number of colleagues have touched this issue, so the vision of residence and residence, the way you defined this, connecting it with Article 11, where police are given the opportunity to further determine residence and residence, in my deep opinion, you directly violate Article 39. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The question of the right to settle and freedom of movement is directly violated here. What was your motive here? Explain the motive. We heard from the minister, some paper he probably read that was given to him by the M.O.P., and we don't have a chance to relocate here. We hope the Minister will come to the debate in particular and that we will be able to understand what the motive of this was. It's open to the National Assembly, it's easy to get the impression that the police will discreetly decide, I like you, you won't live here, you'll live here, and I can decide that it was your intention if you give the money if it's subject to corruption. Why do you allow such solutions to the possibility of corruption? Here you have some things that are absolutely unclear. You speak in Article 29. "Citizens of the former republics of the SFRY and citizens residing in the territory of the former SFRY, who do not have citizenship, have a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the competent authority will passiveise the address of the residence after the expiry of the identity card issued by the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia." What about the I.D.s that have a permanent expiry date? How do you solve that problem? How are you going to solve this situation? There are people who have stopped their citizenship, who have received ID cards with a permanent period of validity. It's a question that hasn't been touched here. Of course, the question of re-application of residence. We all know that there are unscheduled lists of residences in Serbia and that the police did not take care of it, they did not keep a detailed list of residences up-to-date. Imagine how much residence the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have at this time. Now you're going to force them again, once this law comes into force, to report their residence and report it every year. What's the motive? We don't have to re-register the residence, but everyone has to re-register the residence to get an up-to-date list. It's harassment. A lot of people are going to be exposed to a lot of problems about this. We talked, too, about how it had to be kind of specified which documentation was necessary for the application of the residence. You could at least say it could be defined by some sublegal act. Simply, it will be defined by a sublegal act, it will be brought in and that citizens can therefore know which documentation they need to have. I'm going to take a quick look at this strategy that's been talked about a lot today. She certainly in the good part is sincere. I mean, she's honest because she points to the problems the state faces. We're talking about the failures of an existing system. The debate that was opened here at one point was how the state could solve these shortcomings from institutional, material-technical. One way is certainly international co-operation. Today, we hear the debate that it is unacceptable that Serbia solves the possible absence of funds to solve the problem by working internationally with the Russian Federation. That's unacceptable. Every time such co-operation with the Russian Federation is established there is something suspicious, when it comes to privatising NISI now when it comes to solving the problems Serbia has with emergency situations. It needs all possible means of co-operation that are available to Serbia, to address shortcomings, to make Serbia come true. You can't go through the budget, you can't go through the funds. We want international co-operation. Certainly, what happened in Nis yesterday is welcome, and God forbid such projects and such cooperation will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62138	National MP Maria Bulgarcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62139	Dear Presidents, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, as far as the national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations is concerned, it is not in itself at issue for the LDP parliamentary group. I'm sorry Mr. Dacic isn't here with us today, because he's been acting like a real firefighter lately. It was everywhere, both in Corridor 10 and in Jagodina and in Baja Garden, at the hydrocentral, and in the end, and in the conversation with the raspberries. I'd also like to say that I have to admit that when I see Mr. Maric, I get scared. I always think it's about an emergency. But what all the parliamentary groups agree on today, including my parliamentary group, is that we must acknowledge your work, your sacrifice and the conditions under which you work. That's what hasn't been in this House for a long time, that we're all agreed on one important issue. What I'm sorry, and what's not in this strategy, is that you haven't paid attention to the people who work in your units. You didn't pay attention to the conditions under which these people work, the uniforms in which they live every day, because that's how they perform the process of work every day, and that's what's supposed to be found. I know it's a small budget, but you should have, Mr. Maric, fought for a bigger budget. Here, it was today, it was rebalancing. We now have a budget very soon for next year, and I urge you to fight for a slightly larger budget for your portfolio. Also, what would I look back on, and my colleagues have talked a lot about other things, I'm going to say a little bit about the city. I know you've been imposed on this subject and it wasn't exactly in your portfolio, but I simply can't resist the fact that the Serbian anti-urban system reduces the frequency of the city by 20%, while in the EU the process is 50%. In Serbia, anti-urban protection is financed from the Republika Srpska budget and approximately 3.5m euros are needed for this anti-building protection. I also know that you will probably answer me that less than 10% of the total working area has been secured, but I also know that it is not Serbia's citizens' fault, because they do not have the means to secure their agricultural production, because agricultural production is extremely expensive, uncertain agricultural product placement and are really big investments in agricultural production. They don't have the means to finance this insurance. It's not just a lack of rockets that cause the chaos that lies in anti-urban protection. We see the first and basic problem here as a lack of co-operation and communication with neighbors. We can do a lot of things about anti-urban protection with our neighbours, with BiH, with Montenegro. That's where we should pay attention, for that form of cooperation with our neighbors, and that's very important. The price of a 250-euro missile is not high, especially if it turns out to be timely and if, behold, we are shown if it communicates with neighbors. We can do a lot of things with 250 euros and a lot of crops to save. So we think it's very important to pay attention to this issue. We had a summer in June of the month and throughout the year, unfortunately, an elemental disaster throughout Serbia. We had an elementary accident in the area of the Luciani municipality from which I came. Here we have damage to exactly 604,760,000 dinars from the elemental accident. The government has sent aid of barely four million dinars to the Luciani municipality. That, you must admit, is terribly small and not even enough. Citizens have not felt any kind of assistance from four million dinars, which has reached the Luciani municipality's budget. Unfortunately, my time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62140	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Minister is still missing. I'm already the third or fourth speaker. The minister's obligation, when it is said to be present in the Assembly, is not to attend a restaurant, hallway, or at its parliamentary club, but is an obligation to attend the hall. The reasoning we heard from him was quite a shame and it was actually just a few sentences from the reasonings we had already received under the law, and the job of the minister and the essence of the minister's presence is that he is sitting there and reacting to the remarks of the MPs, trying to explain something that we are doing in dispute, and that he is eventually talking to someone other than these three or four MPs of the ruling coalition, who are currently sitting in the hall, that they are still voting for this law. I understand that you, as the ruling coalition, have done your job today by fulfilling the wish of the Vojvodian Hungarian Party, promised eight billion Vojvodina, completed this vote, and now everyone has fled, but I would ask you to call the Minister anyway and let him know whether he will attend or not. As for the debate itself, today we have two laws that are very important, in my humble opinion. What's controversial is what connects these two laws. You know that in accordance with Article 157. Rules of Procedure may be discussed in a joint discussion of laws whose solutions are mutually conditional. There's absolutely nothing conditioned between these two laws here, but it's something that you've long stopped explaining. It's enough that according to that prescribed form, it appears on whose proposal, but I repeat, you only follow the form, and never the essence. First I'm going to look back at this national strategy or the protection tragedy, I've made a lapus, but it doesn't seem to have been an accident, so a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. Here's Mr. Minister, excellent. We have already heard the remarks made by my colleague Mr Boza Delic, who says that we are bringing a strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations, and that we have previously passed some laws that may have been passed later and that should be in line with this strategy. But I also have to extend his remarks and say that we still don't have some national strategies that are higher-ranking and more important than a national emergency rescue strategy. We don't have, first of all, and it's obviously any strategy related to KIM, therefore related to the AP, to part of this country's territory. Without territory, we understand that no state can exist. That lack, that you are wandering, that you do not know if you will at all costs in the EU and whether you will give up in the near future of KiM for achieving that goal which, I am convinced, you will never achieve, is being implemented through these two laws and we will show you that. If those public statements are ignored, you're mostly talking about some kind of cooperation with the Russian Federation. In this national strategy, which is on a large number of sides, you have never mentioned the Russian Federation once, but you have mentioned the EU so many times, I first set out to squander it with green, maybe even cameras can show it, but I can tell you that then my life got sick, because on the first few sides of the minority half was green, because the EU and EU accession in the national strategy have mentioned one 127 times. There are no concrete forms of co-operation, but it's about time you made up your mind. It is now quite clear that the ultimatum of the leading EU countries is fully clear and that you must choose Kosovo or the EU, or as some would say, which also share all the values of DS and so on. The EU, you must choose whether to give up a younger or older son. It's a simple dilemma, with which you need to get out as soon as possible. In this national strategy, it's written about the protection of cultural monuments, for example, but you don't say anything about climates. This strategy had to be in line with the Constitution and comprehensive, for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. whether you can or can't implement that strategy on the whole territory right now, that's another question. It is clear that you cannot, thanks to your political shortsightedness, thanks to your acceptance of Eulex, thanks to 11 years, have not asked for a single time to fully achieve Resolution 1244. Yesterday, that center in Nis opened. You don't even know what the center is like. So you have to decide, as the ruling coalition, what you want. For a long time, if you look at the press, you were talking about an emergency operations center, that along with the Russian Federation, an emergency operations centre would be opened. There's a charity center open all of a sudden. It's two different concepts, but these two different concepts within themselves involve different things. If it's a charity center, then I can't be there, for example, units that are expert in demining. For three years at Paracino, the Russian Federation has been helping Serbian citizens. It removed a large number of explosive devices. It should continue in some future period. It is obvious that there has been political pressure from countries, which are more than clear, hostile to Serbia and are leading EU and US countries, which fear that the Russians are building some kind of military base in Serbia or a military base in Serbia. I guess, under that political pressure, that you decided to open up some kind of charity center after all. To what extent will the Russian Federation be present in Serbia's space and throughout the Balkans, and how much will we benefit from it, I will provide some concrete information to help citizens, as representatives of the ruling coalition are not only not there, but also not interested, which will help Serbian citizens see the potential benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from this Russian military technique. Last year, as far as I know, the Serbian Army had the right information, perhaps this year changed, with two M8-type military helicopters, when we talk about fire-extinguishing. Mr. Maric, air-conditioned, so it's still two. They carry two thousand gallons of water. Never more than two or three MUP helicopters participated in fire-extinguishing, and they carry 1200 liters of water. Is that true? That's right. All in all, the entire army and police of Serbia, when it is assembled, are about 7600 liters of water, which can eventually blow up and start to put out the fire. One Russian military helicopter M26, carrying 15,000 liters of water. Twice as much as Serbia's entire army and Serbia's entire police force. One helicopter, twice as many. Now you can see if it's in our interest to cooperate with France, England, Germany and the United States that are destroying our country, and they're offering us nothing. At the same time, they are very concerned whenever there is a possibility that something might happen to the Republic of Serbia. When someone else wants to help us and to prevent some disaster in the future, then they quickly find our, frankly, enemy countries. Whoever takes some of your territory and kills kids can't be a friend. They find themselves there very quickly, to prevent any possible benefit for Serbia. I think it should also be said that there are Russian planes involved in the ceasefire in the region. Plane B50 carries 12,000 liters of water, Aljušin 76 is completely unmatched, carrying as much as 42,000 liters. You see for yourself how powerful it is and try to find an alternative anywhere in the region or the EU. If there's no alternative, it's obvious she's not here. Then I ask you a logical question – why is this national strategy not relying on the Russian Federation? They're the only ones who can offer us adequate help. One Aljushin replaces four Canadians. After October 5, 2000, those planes that were available at the time of the SRJ must have sold to Greece. As for the Law on residence and residence of citizens, there are also a number of issues in question. Of course, like all other parliamentary groups, we have submitted amendments. This time I'll start at the end of the law, because I think it's important that Mr. Markovic answer certain questions first. In accordance with Article 29, you say - citizens of the former Republic of SFRY or nationals of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY. Please, Mr. Markovic, answer me a very simple question – which other state was created in the territory of the SFRY, except for the former republics of the SFRY? What's that? This is Article 29. I'll tell you again, 'cause it looks like you didn't hear right. Article 29 says - to the citizens of former SFRY republics or nationals of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY. What country is that? Is that an independent Kosovo, Mr Markovic? We have proposed an amendment to delete this article. What other state is that? There is a Republic of Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH. The only thing left is the Republic of Serbia. There is no other state formed in the territory of the former SFRY. What does that mean? Is this the creation of the legal framework that EU representatives have been talking about, so that in the future you can give certain information to KFOR, give to EULEX, or to give to the Cypriot authorities in Pristina? Mr Markovic, I will also ask you if you are creating such a legal framework for Article 25, which requires that the competent authority may provide data from the residence and residence records to state and other organisations and bodies, as well as other legal and physical persons under the following conditions. It is not clear here whether these are cumulatively prescribed conditions, which means that all three conditions must be met, or if these are alternatively prescribed conditions. He says it's one that provides protection of personal data, so if it provides, it can be given. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to hear Mr. Vensan Dežer who said that an agreement had already been reached between the negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia and the Shipage Party on the parent books, but that there is a problem because, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, it is not possible to implement the agreement, and yet the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not able, practically, to return, or however you wish, to the Shiptar State. Mr. Markovic, as the minister in charge of the field of parent books, I ask – are you in the process of this agreement? Do you know what kind of deal has been made? Are you preparing legal amendments to the law on parent books to allow for disintegration, secession of the Republic of Serbia and the functioning of the Cypriot state, which the EU and the United States are trying to create in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Given the previous agreements you have reached, I would absolutely not have been surprised if you had achieved so-called. an agreement to hand over the books to the Shiptars. I'll remind you of an agreement in the Catastra area. There are in the hands of the government of the Republic of Serbia most of the cadastrian books that were drawn from Kosovo's territory in 1999. The Cypriots reconstructed something based on witness statements, and then the formed position of the government of the Republic of Serbia was that it would not leave it to the Shiptars of the Katastrian Book. They wouldn't leave it to us, of course. Then an agreement was made under which the government of the Republic of Serbia gives everything to the Shipar side and, at the same time, it gives nothing to the government of the Republic of Serbia. A commission will be formed to decide on cases where there is no agreement between Serbian cadastrian books and what after 1999, based on witnesses' statements, rules and reconstruction of Shipari, and will determine where disagreements are. In the first degree, a commission will decide which will be formed from a small number of experts defined by EULEX, which are experts from the EU, and a larger number, according to the agreement, experts from the Kosovo Katastre Agency. You can imagine how objective they'll be. Probably as objective as these UNMIK courts. It is the complete capitulation of the Republic of Serbia and there is a betrayal that you make even worse, even more obvious. There's absolutely nothing to hide. In the second degree, under an agreement adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating team, the decision-making authority has the Supreme Court of Kosovo and the decisions of the Supreme Court of Kosovo are executive and judicial and cannot be challenged by any other body. Unless it is a betrayal of Serbian national interests, unless it is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a violation of the law of the Republic of Serbia and an effective recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, which the EU and the United States are asking you to do, then I really don't know what it is. That's why, Mr. Markovic, I'm looking you in the eye, even though you're looking down at the floor, and I'm asking you -- are you preparing a similar scenario in the field of parent books, and do these provisions in the Law on residence and residence of citizens mean that tomorrow, based on these provisions, you will be able to give information to Eulex, KFOR, EU or anyone else? We have submitted an amendment to which we ask that you can only provide individual data if all these other conditions are met, but there is simply no meaningful answer to the question that is another country, except for the former republics of the SFRY, which was created on the territory of the former SFRY. I'm really asking you to answer that. As for these other provisions, which are less controversial, the SRS insisted that the time limit to which the residence and everything else is determined, therefore, a temporary stay abroad, should always be 60 days. You were talking about the need for judicial authorities because of administrative procedures that some people can locate, that these deadlines are short. Then I really don't understand why you're in relation to the existing law, in which it's been 60 days, why you extended to 90. Secondly, the argument that you are making and put forward by the representatives of the ruling coalition, that this law should be amended because it was brought in at the time of the SFRY, that is no argument for me. In happy states, laws don't change for centuries. It's an argument to say what bothers you in that law. The fact that the law was passed 35 or 36 years ago is no distraction. You, after 2000, had the opportunity and took advantage of this opportunity and changed the legal solutions that are in this law. As for Article 13, we have asked for the full erasure of that member, because it gives the police the authority to assess someone's intention to keep living at the address he reports as his residence. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Markovic, and Mr. Maric, since he's part of the police force, how do you think in some real life you can do this reading of the intention of a citizen who first comes to some counter? That person who works on the counter for the first time in his life sees him. He submits the papers prescribed by law. How do you intend to read the intention of those who have come under the law to report residence? Are you going to rent some sort of mind reader? Are you going to connect anyone who might seem suspicious of a polygraph to a lie detector? It is clear to you that there is no fundamentally any possibility of an assessment of anyone's intention, nor is that possible by a counterman. I fear, I believe justifiably, like most citizens of Serbia, that if, God forbid, such a solution is voted in the new law, that it will allow arbitration in conduct, that it will enable self-will and that practically success or failure of a citizen, who wants to report his residence, will in real life depend on which leg that tent clerk got up that morning, whether he's having a nice day or not, whether he's getting paid or not, whether it's raining, whether someone's got him on the bus. It's something that certainly cannot exist in this law. One more thing I'm going to say, there's going to be an opportunity to discuss the amendments. It's in article 18 where you're talking about passive housing. You say - the competent authority will, on official duty, pasivise the address of the residence in case of termination of citizenship and in case of death of a citizen. Passing an address according to the law means that someone doesn't live at the address he's registered with. When someone, God forbid, dies, when the face is dead, then in no way can there be any more talk of residence or residence. What does it mean to pass the address? Do you think someone who died will come to change residence or residence? This is contrary to common sense. So if you accept these amendments to the SRS in no way will you compromise the essence of the law, we haven't touched it, but I think we're going to be very much preventing some potentially very dangerous negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62142	Minister Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62143	I'd just like a few things that have been said here, and I don't know if it's an accident or a deliberate use of some of the provisions of this law, to spread the story to something that isn't the subject of this law. So, it's not created here by this Article 29, it's not any intention, no conspiracy, or I don't know what, to commit any betrayal or something else, it's that in the old Yugoslavia we all had citizenship that was read – citizen of SFRY, citizenship of Serbian, citizenship of Croatianism, Slovenian etc. That's what it said. And today in the Republic of Serbia lives a number of people who are with such citizenship data without asking for an entry into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, there are people in real life who have such citizenship. This is exclusively about those citizens or citizens who have the citizenship of another country formed in the territory of the SFRY. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: What country is this? ) Well, Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia. I think you know what countries have come into existence. They're former republics. I'm trying to explain, but you don't want to hear it. I'm telling you again, citizens of the former republics of the SFRY or citizens of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY. So, a person living in Croatia had the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, the SFRY – the Republic of Croatia, if in the meantime he did not enrol in the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, he still has the paper on which he writes – the citizenship of the SFRY, the citizen of the Republic of Croatia. That's what it says. Do you have that at all? They have some of your senior colleagues. So that's how it was before, and this is the case for these people. So, the people who live here today, who have such a copy. I don't know what these conspiracies are about right now. I'm telling you nicely what it's all about. You want to accept that, if you don't want to, you continue your betrayal story. Are we changing the Book of Origin Act? We don't change the Law of Parent Books at all, and I mean, I don't know how to tell you, your whole speech is quite malice and focused on that old story about some betrayals, etc. When the chief of the negotiating team came in, he was here, I was here two weeks ago, please, ask him everything you think you need to ask him. We are now talking about a law that is very important because it will solve a number of concrete problems that we are facing, and you are saying that this law is being passed in order to recognise Kosovo. Whoever wants to believe you, let him believe you, I can't convince you of something like that. As for these terms of Article 25, they are cumulative. I don't know what other questions were, I'm talking about what the matter of this law is. This for article 13, I don't see what the problem is. It's as if there's a suspicion that a person is trying to lead an organ astray, to avoid calls and so forth. Someone's gonna come out and see what's going on. You can't bring a document relating to immovableity, which no one has paid for for five years, and obviously there are no living conditions. You are the owner of this property, but it's obvious you want to manipulate your residence. Why is that so controversial? I don't think that should be controversial. I would rather point out what I think is the greatest value of this law, with everything that my colleagues in the MUP have done well, and that is that we are finally going to solve the question of people who can't make a living. We have a so-called. Legally invisible persons, which has raised an exaggerated media image, because it's not really as much as they're told, but objectively we have them, we have to solve the issue, primarily the people who live in unhygienic settlements, by allowing them to be, above all, at social work centres, which will solve countless problems that we are now facing, from health care to gathering other documents, so that people can live properly, legally and exercise the rights that belong to them under our laws, and, on the other hand, to remove any suspicion from this country that we do not take care of some marginalised groups. I think that's the greatest value of this law, with everything else, starting with a famous checkout. So far we've had to log out, now we don't have to. So there's no last intention, Mr. Sarovic. If you want to believe it, believe it. If you don't think this is accurate, I agree to see if there's a way to tell yet, but again I'm telling you that in the old Yugoslavia it's written as I told you. If there are older colleagues, let them say if it was written like that. It was written – citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. On this basis, when the Republic of Croatia became independent, all were citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's really about that. I don't know why you don't believe it. Only if you don't think it's accurate, so let's make it clear. I can't believe you don't believe that. I can't believe there's some residence law that wants to break something else. Honestly, if you will, believe me. If you want to know, let's see how. It's just about that case. We have two types of faces, these are old cases, and there may be a case of faces in these newly formed states, which we know to be how many. We do not recognise Kosovo, nor does anyone intend to recognise Kosovo, it is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62144	Comrade Sarovic, you have since the parliamentary group, otherwise, there is no basis for replication. This was an explanation and answers to your questions. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62145	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, because it is obvious that Mr. Markovic misread my presentation. He said my speech was malignancy. I really don't think that's appropriate. He responded to the remarks I made, and I interpreted it completely differently. I really ask you, on behalf of some collegiation, to apply the Rules of Procedure properly. It is obvious to everyone in this room, no matter which party they belong to, as it is obvious to Mr. Markovic, that I have the right to replication. I really don't want to waste my time with my fellow MPs, I want to take advantage of what the Rules of Procedure has given me. If you think this Rules of Procedure is no longer good, that it is not restrictive enough, then go ahead and change it. At least until that moment that crumb you left to the opposition, let us at least collect it. Please give me a replica, according to what Mr. Markovic said. He misread my presentation and related to the countries of the former SFRY, he said my speech was malignant. That's more than enough ground to get me a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62146	Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62147	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovic, what you said just doesn't stand. I will read the provision of Article 29 again, first of all, for the sake of the citizens. He says, "Citizens of the former republics of the SFRY (Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, BiH and Montenegro) or citizens of another country formed in the territory of the former SFRY". What country was created in the territory of the former SFRY, except for former republics, which, unfortunately, are all within their borders? There's no sixth, Mr. Markovic. There's no possibility of precision, or there is, if you're well-intentioned, as you say. I have submitted an amendment asking to be deleted: "or to the citizens of the other Republic created in the territory of the former SFRY". It doesn't touch this member of the law, it doesn't touch the whole law. Then accept it, and let's see that you're not malicious and that it's not any betrayal. Second of all, you said the head of the negotiating team was coming to the Assembly. I must inform you that seven times we have scheduled a session of the KIM Committee and that Mr. Stefanovic refuses to come. Even after Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanović told us that she could not come to the National Assembly because she was down there taking care of the citizens, and when we said there were no problems and we offered six alternative locations that we were ready to come to, he wasn't even downstairs. Mr. Bogdanovic was found in a bar instead of in negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62148	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62149	Not to spread the subject to what you asked me, that's what I told you, but this for Article 29. So there are people whose citizenship is SR Macedonia, for example, from the time of SFRY. So he's a citizen of former SFRY republics, SR Macedonia, who doesn't really exist. Mr. Sarovic, a colleague of Kasalica will pass on your presentation to the police minister, I interpret it as I think it should, because by doing the parent books, I know what it says and how it wrote to all of us back then. It was written to me by SR Serbia at the time. We'll pass on your presentation, your remarks. I don't want to leave any doubt in the direction you said. We'll see if there's a need for that precision. It's not up to me, it's going to be the authors of the law and the ministry that made the law to do it, but I'm telling you, there's no need for that kind of concern as you've put it. It's not about any hidden intentions or anything like that, it's about two categories of people, where Article 29 wants to get rid of how the residence address in the Republic of Serbia will be passively paved after the identity card expires. We have two categories of people who have already begun to come to Serbia in the 1990s, refugees pressured by trouble. These are people who have the citizenship of the Socialist Republic. They are citizens of the former republics, and others are citizens of the emerging countries – the Republic of Croatia, etc. You don't believe it, and I believe it's like I told you. We'll pass on your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62150	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these few, honourable Ministers, I appreciate what you've put forward today, what you've now put forth and honestly what you've just said I believe, but I can't simply accept because you're not the competent minister for this law. This law is not a parent law in your area, and you, with all due respect, cannot enter into the intention of the legislator of this law, because perhaps his intention was completely different. And that's why I think it's necessary to make this Article 29. The bill changes, so that our MPs do not raise any further concerns and doubts, and that is something I intend to react to, but I simply do not want to repeat my exposure, because Mr Sarovic explained it very well. Of course, there is no doubt that this law on the residence and residence of citizens is something that is extremely necessary. First, because the current law was now passed back in 1977, and secondly, he did not in some appropriate way regulate the rights of people's rights are actually regulated by this law. So the matter of the law isn't properly regulated because it's somewhat private, so it's denied the rights they should have under the law. It is good that he respects the fact that things change in real life and that it is necessary for these changes of reality to be brought into line with the law itself. Here I primarily think of the fact that this bill will allow citizens who, under the applicable law, had no right to report their residence and thus come to a personal map, will now be able to do so and will now be allowed to do so. It is something that is a good solution and we welcome, because there are more than tens of thousands of people in Serbia today. But on the other hand, I don't believe this law will solve the question that has been reached here today in this congregation, which is a question of legally invisible persons. I'll remind you, that legal persons are invisible, persons that exist physically, but that there is no legal act visible, or legal clue. They were not enrolled in the birth certificates after their birth, whether because their parents did not enroll them or simply were unable to enroll them because they themselves were not enrolled in those same parent books. Such persons, in our opinion, firstly need to enable this subsequent entry into the birth certificates, then, to establish their nationality, and only then to facilitate or enable them to report their residence in this way as regulated in the draft law. It is good that this bill will at least one of those three stages simply be done by some easier procedure and that will be somewhat improved, but this problem will not be solved. It is also clear to me that this problem cannot be solved by one law, but a comprehensive approach is needed, a comprehensive approach to solving this problem. Another problem I'm sure this law won't solve, it's the problem we've been dealing with recently, and I don't think it's solved properly so far. This is the problem of fictitiously reported residences or the residence of Kosovo Albanians in central Serbia's territory, all for the sake of obtaining biometric Serb passports. Now just to be clear, I, as well as the DSS, absolutely accept that every Serbian citizen has the right not only to a biometric Serbian passport but also has the right to all the personal documents guaranteed by the laws that we bring here, because that kind of confirms the sovereignty of the state throughout its territory. But if a Serbian passport is issued to a Kosovo Albanian, then it is understood that it cannot be issued at the same time by the Kosovo passport. Also, if he is issued a Serbian ID card, it is understood that he cannot have a Kosovo ID card. That's why I think it's going to be very difficult to determine this and that I'm simply not sure whether or not this question can be solved at all. The Kosovo Albanians, we read this in the press, about it were various informative emissions, were even able to give up to four thousand euros to get a Serbian biometric passport and simply how much interest it is in Kosovo Albanians, best showing that daily in the City Administration, for example, Vranje, there are about 150 Albanians who are interested in obtaining Serbian personal documents. Also, another fact that from January to August 2010, 11 000 Kosovo Albanians have registered as interested in living in a Median municipality, means they have expressed their readiness and desire to register as Nisli. Of course, I don't mind that, of course, it wasn't done in a fictitious way, and yet I'm saying this, because I think this bill will not be able to solve it. Today is also a very current problem which is also related to this topic, it is a large number of asylum seekers in Serbia, who want to cross the EU, and from January to today, it seems to me that asylum in Serbia has requested about 2.5 thousand people, more than half of whom are Afghans. If I am not mistaken in Serbia there are only two asylum centres, one is in Banja Koviljaca, which is more than crowded, it was also updated here in the National Assembly. It receives about 83 people, and in Banja Koviljača alone, Loznica and the whole area there are about 2.5 thousand asylum seekers. It is clear that all those who stay in Banja Koviljaca, or Loznica, who do not address the Asylum Centre, are considered to have no residence but are illegal, that they are staying illegally in the territory of our country. We simply did not get an adequate answer when the question was raised in the congregation. I'm not sure the state knows how to deal with this, and that's why I'd like to have someone in charge inform us in this regard, and these are obviously issues that I've raised here now, that go beyond the power of a law like this, and that's why it's necessary, it's important that he regulates all these issues in an adequate way, and not like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62152	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the draft law on residence and residence and the national strategy of protection and rescue in emergency situations, and we are discussing these two things in a united debate, although we are really not clear, and that has been spoken of by many of my colleagues before me, what these two things have in common, but having experience with you, you have combined more drastic things, so we have kind of googled into it. In my discussion, I will focus first and foremost on the national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. It is not necessary to recall that this strategy is a very important link in the functioning of each country and its content, i.e. the concept should be fully consistent with the interests of the country concerned. Is it so when it comes to the state of Serbia, it remains to be seen, or we will see from this strategy that we are considering. Just to take a brief look at the content of this strategy and then we will get an answer to this question, and the answer is - this strategy we are considering is not in agreement with the interests of the Serbian state. For what? There's a lot of stuff, and I'm gonna mention two things here. First of all, the strategy does not mention Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that Serbia has the biggest problems right in Kosovo and Metohija, and I believe that this government, this way, wants to bypass the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, the other thing is seen in the strategy and how it takes care of the interests of the EU. This, however, is little camouflaged by some strategies to reduce the risk of disasters in developing countries, as reportedly, the EU takes care of developing countries and helps them in these strategies. I have to say, and that should be clear to anyone who has any understanding of all the events and developments in the world today, above all in Europe, that the EU represents a factor that threatens developing countries more than any natural disaster, and this threat takes place primarily in two directions. One direction is achieved through the export of dirty technologies and the export of nuclear and other hazardous waste in the developing country, and the other direction is achieved in a way through the economic and media enslavement of developing countries, where Serbia, of course, also belongs. But today you are offering here in this assembly, and when it is time for adoption, you will adopt a declaration as recommended by the EU, and thus you will give the leading EU countries an alibi for everything they do badly for our country to destroy our economy and all other resources owned by the state of Serbia, and in this way they have gone so far and that the strategy has been subdued primarily by Europe and the EU, this can also be confirmed by Chapter Two, where the EU recommendation shows itself – disasters can be carried out. Well, people just don't. Catastrophes can't be avoided. They can reduce the risks of the consequences that these disasters will avoid, but man has not yet reached that level that he can successfully cope with nature. The best example of this is a nuclear disaster caused by an earthquake in Japan. We know that Japan is one of the most technologically developed countries in the world, we know that the Japanese are one of the most valuable and responsible people in the world, but they couldn't stop and stop the disaster of their nukes. Furthermore, this strategy shows and gives one analysis of the current state of affairs lists the shortcomings of this system, starting from institutional – organisational to material – technical and when you are just in the analysis saying that everything that is so far that we have had nothing wrong, but nothing is quite right, and so it stands at nothing is good. And now one logical conclusion can be drawn from here, if this analysis of yours is successful then it turns out that everything that was right for you to ruin in the last ten years that you ruled Serbia. Otherwise, how else do you explain the fact that at the time of NATO aggression, our firefighters and our people who worked on electricity distribution systems were doing a great job, and they were an example to everyone in the world, and then the NATO pact people admired, indeed, our people how they successfully prevented fires, and how they successfully trained these systems for transmission and power supply. So, you've ruined a lot of things. Given this experience from NATO bombing, this and any other strategy should be based on those things they have confirmed in practice and that have given positive effects in practice. There you in the strategy, say, quote and indeed some lame things, so one chapter wears the titles "visions and missions" and now sounds nice, nice title, and when you look at this chapter, it contains only three sentences in three rows, and the strategy is abounding with some lame terms, so that we can realize the terms of an increase in the culture of disaster resistance, or let's say the need for better mafing, etc. Indeed, what you did there and what it is worth nothing. I must remind you that the state of Serbia does not have friends in the EU, or almost does not, if we do not count on Greece, and our friends are in other countries above the EU, and we should turn to the other side. Russia is our biggest strategic friend, and therefore we need to work harder on this emergency centre that was formed and whose seat is in Nis, unfortunately, although Russian Federation Minister Sergei Shyg was there yesterday, I know personally that this job is going sloppy and that there is not much going on in this job, and someone in this government was afraid that Russia would endanger the interests of our alleged NATO friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62154	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic, you have 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, you see how difficult it is when you find yourself in an emergency situation, so you have to defend a law that you didn't write in your ministry and you have to interpret on the spot some of its provisions, and I don't doubt that as a good lawyer you've seen many questions this law has. We will certainly agree that this law has, that is, the Law on residence and residence of citizens is a very important law, which affects the rights of every individual in this country. This law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to those underage and minors, and to those who are unfortunately long in status without an address, and I fully understand the need to change this law after three decades and that the state has interests and that at any moment knows where its citizens are and from this law many other rights regarding travel documents, traffic and driving permits, health and social security and a number of other elements that are very important in the everyday life of each of us. Certainly, it is necessary to prevent only formal reporting of residence in a place where there is no living, in order to achieve some right we have had the opportunity in practice to see that hundreds of people are reporting in some places, in the municipality where I come from, the town of Cačak, to apply for a job at the Children's Institute of Joy, and that is the only reason why they had to go through this whole procedure. As regards basic concepts, residences and residences, we consider the DSS, and therefore we have responded with the amendment that in Article 3 of the residence rather inaccurately, it can lead to free interpretation of the competent authorities, above all with the rights of the Ministry of Interior, to pave the status of such persons. The residence, unlike this, is much more precise, but certainly a problem that cannot be left out of this discussion that the application of the residence can last for the longest year and I do not understand why such a short period is set. We have proposed by amendment that it be a period of five years. I think enough trouble has been created in police administrations, related to traffic permits, driver's licenses, because we've had a chance to see people come at night and sleep in the halls, to get their turn. I don't really see why they'd be harassing citizens and every year obliging them to come to police administrations to exercise their rights. Article 10 states that, with the application of residence, persons over 16 years of age, they are required to apply a personal card and other documents and evidence relevant for the reporting of residence. I'm really interested in what other documents they are, I know which ones they can be, but I guess the law should define all situations to avoid certain problems or at least to say that the Ministry, the minister responsible, will, within a certain period of time, clearly state what will be on this list. Believe me, if police officers can abuse this, maybe unwittingly, more out of ignorance, by asking citizens to bring in different documents, they'll ask for a certified lease agreement, and you and I know there's no legal obligation for that contract to be court-confirmed, they can ask a person, a landlord on the counter, so that he can submit a certain request, they can ask for confirmation of the settlement of the householder's tax where he wants to apply and a number of other problems that can cause great complications in practice. We mentioned previous parent books and I think that this area is quite well arranged and it is indeed a great advantage that in every city in the Republic of Serbia a copy of the birth certificate can be taken out, but I do not understand that the residence information is entered in the identity card of the person to be registered. You yourself know that there are two types of ID cards, if we had ID cards with a chip, where it's possible to enter these data, but there are a lot of those citizens who took ID cards without that chip, and it would really be rude for them to have some other data on the back, or to issue some new document or paper on which they would be on the back. In Article 13 of the resolution, the competent authority shall refuse to report residence unless it can be established that the citizen intends to reside permanently at that address. You were just talking about intent, I don't think there's going to be any abuse, but I think every single person's intention is his own personal act, and it has to be respected in this law as well. Then, in Section 2 of course, such a solution can be made to the Ministry's appeal, but beware of this - the appeal against the solution set out in Article 1 does not delay the execution of the solution. What's going on with this solution? An individual's intention. It really seems that someone who hasn't graduated from college, where you and I have already studied at this mega, giga and other law schools, and then there's this basic lack of understanding of the essence of administrative law, but we can also do that tomorrow with laws that I hope you'll defend in the National Assembly regarding administrative inspection. The residence and residence records include the following data – unique home number of citizens, name and last name, last name, gender, date, place of birth, name and last name of both parents or guardians, unique parent number of parents or guardians, address of residence, occupation, citizenship and marital status. Does the application for residence or residence, or the record to be kept, really include all this information? This, in my opinion, is the subject of some other records and should not be found in this article. Mrs. Radovic, you just explained article 29, but I think you managed to defend what was written here, like Jorgacevic the other night at a match against Slovenia. Watch out here, it says the competent authority will pasivise the address of the residence in the Republic of Serbia following the expiry of the identity card. You gave an example just now that they're mostly old citizens. Are there any ID cards issued without a time limit or issued with a permanent validity date? Should the state wait for these citizens to die, far away, in order to bring the actual situation into line with the formal, as prescribed here? Citizens who have registered their residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia before the entry into force of this law are required to report their residence in accordance with the provisions of this law. There's no place to stay. I don't know why they would do it and go back to the whole procedure, and it would cost a lot of time to waste in all these procedures, so we reacted to this article. It is necessary that at least the representative of the MUP be transferred to the minister of our objections. I hope the DSS amendment on the day we discuss them will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62156	The word is made by Vice President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62157	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Markovic, the more adequate talker for this national strategy of protection and rescue in emergency situations would certainly be Minister Dacic, but since you are here, the strategy includes a part of your portfolio concerning the units of local self-government, I will talk about concrete examples and cases of what has happened to the post-festum because I am the text and the strategy itself, except that what my colleague Sarovic was talking about, which is a persistent insistence on harmonising what puts the EU in front of you and that destroys the Serbian economy, is something that can be written by any of the students or people who prepare this as a work for some college or for some presentation of the strategy as a general. We expected, given that yesterday Mr. Sojg, Minister of the Russian Federation for Emergency Conditions, was in Serbia again, and that the name, the humanitarian centre, rather than the Nish Emergency Centre, was opened and that this strategy would rely on it. I will speak in the short time that I have at my disposal of this necessity of Russia's influence in the Balkans, which could in this part and which should have been so highlighted, but you are this option of our enemies, the enemy of Serbia and the Serbian people, NATO and the EU. You are not a Serbian radical to your grief, so you did not put into this strategy the necessity of such an influence of Russia. That it's not funny, Mr. Markovic, and that it requires a very careful and political and every other width and consideration, says one study done by the CIA, which is the Stratfor Agency, which is exactly where the Shoego came from, where the Russians in Nis came from, and what it means is that it's the creation of a new Russian base. Where good luck you are. We Serbian radicals call and do it always and in every place, we did it when Mr. Medvedev and Mr. Putin arrived in Serbia, the Russians that in our country's territory, if we were in power, we would allow them to set up their missile shields to protect us from this non-human and this evil, such as the NATO Pact. When Romanians could do this on their country's territory, why don't we let the only state, which, with China, India and the rest of the righteous world, defend KIM as our sanctuary, allow it to the Russian Federation? On the other hand, there was no accent on this, only it was found that the military had no active role, which General Delic spoke of, in situations like this, that there was a special corps, but that ad hoc engagement was made when, God forbid, things like this happened, and Mr. Sojgu also, before yesterday's arrival, said that Russia was ready to finance it with 35 million dollars. Now there are concrete questions. You're a Belgrader, I don't know which municipality you live in, it doesn't matter, but, Mr. Markovic, in the Star Forest, in the middle of Belgrade, there's a NATO bomb that these villains dropped, which is a thousand tons heavy for which the Ministry of Defense doesn't have, we've been asking it as a parliamentary question, no knowledge or how it can be removed. You know, in this Star Forest, children are playing, going on tours, families on trips, and God forbid something like that happens, the center, or this strategy, would have to be applied to Mr. Maric and everyone to get involved in something. Why can't you do that? Because your NATO friends have not given you the information so far, because we have received from the Sutanovac the answer – yes, we know about it, but NATO has not provided us with the necessary information to access the removal of that bomb. On the other hand, it was necessary, when we are already attached to the Russian Federation, I repeat our position of the party, in the context of the collective security strategy of Russia and the relationship with NATO and the protection of what is the territory of our country, certainly that they should be both military and political allies of the first order, but then you should have abolished, if you want to worry about the security of our country and our children, and SOFA agreement, because the SOFA agreement that you accepted here in 2005 at the SRJ Assembly, gives such an opportunity that no one can control it, the US military can enter and transfer through our country nuclear tactical weapons, which Mr Delic knows, as well as anyone who understands, can stand in one suitcase. Please, who will protect the citizens of Serbia from that? What are the consequences of numerous, unfortunately, natural disasters? Kolega Popovic and counterpart Mihajlovic will talk about earthquakes, but I will talk about the floods now in Serbia. In only one municipality in Dragačevsky, in the municipality of Luciani, 2010 and 2011, the direct consequence of the city's weather and everything that happened was estimated at 10m euros. What did you give that municipality, directly to agricultural crops, for peasants, martyrs, who live off their work? They won 1.5 million dinars last year and four million this year. You know, Mr. Markovic, how many SRJs had anti-urban missiles while there was this state community? Thirty-two thousand. How much is available now? The poor eight at the anti-urban station, and because NATO doesn't fire them, it's only four missiles, two shorts and two long-range missiles. Then how can the people defend themselves and protect their crops? You think, unfortunately, such are the forecasts and experts and the consequences of global warming and everything that happens in the atmosphere, that it will not be in the next period. Therefore, not only that, but volunteering is the work of people working against the city's protection. They only get 4,000 dinars a month, they don't have permanent employment, and all of that and a series of other problems that we can talk about here and what Dr. Paya is going to talk about, and that's protecting citizens right from the consequences of the evil NATO bombing. But I will conclude with the words of our president when he went to The Hague, which is the greatest elemental disaster, with this people somehow, unhappy and election. The biggest elemental disaster is DOS, which came with a five-octobaric coup to power. And as President Seselj said, when that flood was so-called. Democracy, or Serbia's robbery, of destruction, came to Serbia, all the mud came to the surface and the consequences of this mud's rule we still feel today on our own skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62158	The People's MP, Dr. Pai Mamchilov, has a word. You've got 28 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62159	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected President Djukic-Dejanovic, respected ministers and representatives of the police ministry, according to my account, we now need to adopt a 95th strategy for the state of Serbia. We've got these strategies over the top, so if you look at it, let me remind you of some. We have a employment strategy by 2010, and you know what the number of employees or unemployed is like. We have a strategy to improve, encourage birth, and we don't even want to talk about it. You know that the white plague is killing Serbia and destroying our national being. We also have a strategy to get the population back to KIM, and today we've come into a situation that's kind of shy, we can't even talk about the situation that's down at KIM today. After all, we also have a strategy on fighting corruption, but it is written new because this one is not satisfactory so far. Strangers tell you we must be much more agile here. In the end, we have a range of firearms and hunting weapons control, and as we stand with that control, we see in the chronicles when the murders happen, and most often these are from the murder weapon that hasn't even been reported. To go back to the strategy itself. As our leader Delic said, we will not accept such a strategy and we will not vote for it for any more reason. The first must be a formal reason, that what you offered us as a strategy is not a strategy at all. Mr. Markovic read the full introduction without two paragraphs, though, two of them got a little scrawny. The one he threw out was very interesting to me, which is that we have installed the EU directive and what directive, that we need to adapt our security system to theirs. In politics, Mr. Markovic will surely agree with me, he is a good lawyer, in the hierarchy of acts brought first is a national or state policy, which has the most general objectives. Then comes the strategy. What's the strategy? These are activities that achieve these long-term goals. There's no activity in this strategy at all, let alone deadlines. However, it is said - an action plan will be adopted afterwards, so that we expect it to be. On the other hand, the law was first passed, which is a completely upside down. The strategy should follow the law. It's nice to say here that the strategy was based on the law. That law, as it is, it went into effect somewhere in July this year. The mass of things he didn't even regulate. He hasn't even regulated the state of emergency, and that's the constitutional category. Article 200. The constitution speaks of a state of emergency, when our Assembly is to make its decision to declare that state. He's talking about emergency situations and he doesn't even regulate civil protection. Even so, civil protection, the game of the case, was given to some military law. That we don't talk much about all these problems. We've got one document on nine pages, but it's followed by a far larger annex that talks about problems related to achieving this protection. This protection is unusually important, because what do you want? To protect lives, health, property of citizens, environment and cultural heritage. Nobody slows it down. As it is destroyed, as it can be threatened, to be exact, we know and we know that, it can be done by elemental disasters, and it can also be done by human fact. If you look at this document, he has one, really commendable thing to point out. It is said that I quote -- the Republic of Serbia is ready to approach an effective reduction in the risk of disasters, but the current level of organisation and training of an integrated protection and rescue system is significantly lagging behind the estimated needs and objective opportunities that the state has. So, you're admitting impotence. That's why it's empty paper, that's why there's no activity here, that's why there's no deadlines here, but there's only a tax code of targets. If you're looking, there are some areas. What do you see? You can see that three members talk about the same thing, about the risks, just in a different way. So this isn't a strategy. This could be a national policy of protection and rescue in emergency situations. If you called her that, we might consider talking about her. But there's also something interesting in the annex for a certain commendation, a realistic state of state's inability to fight in a European way, as you know how to prescribe from Europe regulations, and then you can't achieve them. Let's just leave it all alone. I think it is very important that if we look at the health situation or, what is Serbia's main problem? The biohazard of the nation. Why the biohazard? Because we die a lot, not just a little bit, but a lot of dying. What are we dying of? From an epidemic, which is cancer, cancer. There's cancer in these areas. To remind you of the aggression of the NATO Pact and the impoverished uranium. Falko Akama, Admiral, president of the Italian Parliament's Defence Committee, made clear that of the 225 Italian soldiers who were on the ground where the uranium was dumped, 45 died of cancer, and 25 children were born from parents who were exposed to it with anomalies. UN Bakari Kante gave a report on the consequences, which is hidden, according to Radomir Kovacevic, a toxicologist from the Institute "Dr Karajovic", where 29 people in most cases found traces of poor uranium in urine in 2002. The vets here put this as a topic at their congress and found that it was clearly seven times the death of dogs after NATO bombing and suggested what the state should do to save the people from the deadly facts of the poor uranium. Now I don't have time to talk in detail about all this, but the Kosovo story that she's silent about and that went into the media, the biggest genocide after Hiroshima is what was done to the Serb people with the impoverished uranium. Well, then, you have a professor. Duško Stanojevic, Aleksandra Vasic, Jasmina Durakovic, Goran Relic, if you have read their statements about the disastrous situation, where our people are sick and dying. I will end up with only one quote, I will be free, on one of the shows at Olje Bećković, visiting from a neighboring country, one writer said about this. She asked Olja Beckovic - why won't our officials raise the question of the poor uranium and the deaths of the people from that monster? She's done, now I can't find it, so I won't insist, about this -- how can you let her keep quiet, when an American ambassador puts a child in her lap with leukemia and asks that you Serbian citizens pay for it, what caused this disease? How long will this government keep quiet? Why isn't this in the strategy? How can you say in article 91 of the law how this terrain is being rescheduled? It was supposed to lift that land and take it where it can - only to Siberia. So, some want to go to the NATO Pact, let them go to the villains who caused this to be kept quiet. Shut up, Ministry, shut up government. It's a shame for this country, but we Serbian radicals won't shut up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62160	National MP Zoran Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62161	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good when a country brings its national strategy to protection and rescue in emergency situations, but it is not good when the realisation of this strategy depends on political will and political interests. Unfortunately, the experience teaches us that the recovery was due to natural disasters in the past period, often being the subject of political trade and the will of those in power. The Colombian district, from which I come, was struck by a devastating earthquake in 1998 and 1999. Because of the public and due to the citizens of the Kolubar district, I will remind you that on the night between 29th and 30th September 1998, Kolubar County was affected by a devastating earthquake, with a magnitude of 5.6 units of Richter scale. The epicenter was located in the area of Mijonička and Ljiška municipality, on the mountain beam from the Drain pine to Malen. After that, according to Seismological Institute of Serbia, more than 20 earthquakes occurred in this area, and one of the earthquakes occurred on 30 April 1990 with a 5.7 Richter scale magnitude. According to the Department for Reconstruction and Development of the Kolubar district, the earthquake damaged 24.185 houses, and most of the facilities died in the municipality of Valjevo and then in the municipality of Mininica, Ljig, Lajkovac and Osecina. I'm just going to give an example from the municipality of Mininica, which was the epicenter of the earthquake. A total of 6420 houses were damaged. By 2000, 864 houses were built, and 1154 houses were renovated, totalling 2018 houses. I note that it was a period of one-and-a-half years, while the republican government also participated in the SRS. After that, for 11 years DOS, only 384 houses were built, on average just slightly more than 30 houses a year. This basically means that DOS authorities, with this intensity, would build or renovate the remaining facilities for the next 25 years. Since that fact was clear to you too, you've come up with something else. You are repealing the Kolubara District Construction and Development Directorate affected by the earthquake, and you are setting up the Agency for Infrastructure Development and Social and Living Construction. You're building a strategy to trick citizens. That's what you did. To remove all priority lists for construction and make so-called. A zero-list, instead of getting the future construction, reportedly the character of a social housing, will be another fraud of the grieving citizens, whose houses died in the earthquake. That there will be no future construction, the name of the newly formed agency also points out. That I am right when I say this, they also confirm the words of Dragan Jeremic, director of the Kolubar County Reconstruction Directorate, who recently said that in agreement with Minister Dulic, it was decided to remove all priority lists for construction and introduce social building. Where did these two get the right to turn the earthquake into a social category, when it was an elemental accident, which is all in order, less or more, hit. Similar or almost the same situation is similar in other municipalities of Kolubar County – in Valjevo, Ljig, Lajkovac, Ub and Osecini. The national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations, noisy floods, is an elemental disaster that causes huge damage. No matter what you predict the production of the methodology, so-called active flood defence, which implies full coordination with RMHZ radar, is impossible to predict, so the damages are imminent. Unfortunately, the noise floods of huge intensity hit the Ljig municipality on Saturday, May 28th of this year. In just an hour, the flood that destroyed almost everything in front of it caused major damage to buildings, roads, bridges, and plantations in the territory of the entire municipality. Hundreds of acres of fertile land and crops were found in it under mud and water, and all that the farmers had invested until then went into recovery. According to the commission, the damage is next. On agricultural crops, fields and meadows, a total of 205 million. On roads, bridges and streets, 381 million. The damage to construction facilities in local communities – Kadina Luka. Ljig, Veliševac, Slavkovica, Paliznica, Babajic, a total of 48 million. The damage to the city's water supply is six million and four hundred thousand, totaling 641 million. From the government of the Republic of Serbia, the municipality of Ljig received 10 million, or 1.5% of the damage suffered. To repeat, of the 641 million, the municipality of Ljig received 10 million from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The 10 million dinars were spent on repairing municipal roads and bridges, so farmers for sustained crop damage did not receive any single dinar. Taking into account the difficult situation of peasants because of the abnormally high price of artificial fertilizer, seeds, oil that is most expensive in Europe, they have come to an end. Those who once fed others, due to the elemental disaster and the negligent state, which is worse than any accident, have come into a situation to beg for them to be fed by others. Therefore, the condition of all the conditions, before the adoption of this national strategy, was to first resolve the damages so far, and only afterwards to plan some new elemental disasters and damages that it would cause. Also, one of the great disasters that has hit the municipality of Lig and the rinks. Sela Brančić, Kozalji, Šuci, suffered huge damage from the 2006 ice-skating site. As an example, I will list only one household, Radovanović Zivadin from the village of Kozelj, where the damages on buildings and land are so great that the CIP Institute wrote in the explanation the following – since it is a large and deep glider worth exploring, projecting and rehabilitating the rink, multiplely exceeding the value of the facility, so that it is proposed to move the household to other stable locations, but unfortunately this man cannot move his household anywhere on his 4.5 acres of property because the entire property is under the rink. He left the household, moved some furniture as far as he could, but no compensation from the Republic, no help, no after three years. Mr. Secretary, I'll get you the paperwork later on. Is the national strategy, uh, like other cases, going to solve it before, and then it's just going to get into some new evaluations? Gentlemen of the government, that's what citizens are asking of you. The only way to show that you care about the fate of damaged citizens is to see that it seems to be you who are in charge of the greatest elemental disaster that could have hit them. Your departure from power will only partially resuscitate the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62162	The joint principled and uniform search that we have under discussion today aims to adopt a national strategy, protect and rescue emergency situations and adopt a law on residence and residence of citizens. It is indisputable that any well-organised and normal state should have one such strategy that defines the situation that occurs when natural or artificial disasters occur and the purpose of our national strategy should be to protect life, health, the property of citizens as well as the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot help but repeat what our authorised representative, Mr Bozidar Delic, has already said, we should have adopted the strategy first and only then passed laws and sublaws. We go by a different logic and I'm afraid this strategy is not just a dead letter on paper. Because, as I'm going to point to a few examples later, in situations where there's a variety of disasters, things get out of hand and then the strategy can't help much. And the great One said that of his famous saying: for good is easy to be, and in torment the mighty are known. When disaster occurs, the character of society is seen in some way, as society is ready to react, how organized it is materially and humanely and also how it treats its citizens. Since I am the last speaker, and since the speakers from my parliamentary group have mostly given one extremely comprehensive piece of information on these issues, I will just say a few things that have not been said so far that I think are important and are related to this strategy. In addition to the basic law on emergency situations, this strategy also relies on some 10 other laws, which are, for the purpose of informing citizens: the Law on Protection against Fire, the Law on Health, the Law on Public Health, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Load, the Law on Water, the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, the Law on the Republic of Seismological Institute, the Law on the Protection of Ionian radiation and on Nuclear Safety, the Law on Forests, etc. Looking at this material that we got from the promoter, i.e. Governments, I've counted some six or seven different agencies that are actually asking themselves, and which are appropriate to perform in emergency situations, such as, for example, under the Health Protection Act, it's the Institute of Public Health, and we still have the Agency for the Protection of Ionian Emissions and Nuclear Safety of Serbia, based on the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Load, the Government established the Transport of Dangerous Load, under the Environmental Protection Act, we have the Environment Protection Agency, so meteorological and hydrological surveillance systems with some 38 surveillance stations in Serbia, and the last agency I've seen is within the MUP, so-called. The Department of Prevention Protection. I've seen people from the Department of Defense are being brought here now, because now that we've destroyed the Army, we've got to house her members somewhere and lie to ourselves and this people that we have some kind of army, and we all actually see where we are and where we are in this matter. To make things worse, I'm going to tell you that these agencies have taken so much credit that our analysts count that there are currently over 110 different agencies, institutions and funds in Serbia. Who's working in them? Surely there are no members and members of the SRS, these are all members of the ruling coalition, G 17 or how modern it is now – the URS, DS, SPS and others. And worst of all, within one ministry, we also have the intervening of competences through several agencies, so for example at the Ministry of Environment, we have the first Environment Protection Agency, then the Environmental Protection Fund, the Nature Protection Agency, the Plant Protection Authority. So, four different institutions that needlessly spend citizens' money and taxpayers' money. If it weren't for these and so many agencies, we certainly wouldn't be discussing that deficit this morning, or we wouldn't be in a position to adopt rebalancing every year, a couple of times. But that's not where the story ends. I'll give you a few more examples within the Ministry of Infrastructure. There is an Energy Agency and there is an Energy Efficiency Agency. What he does for one and the other, it's hardly gonna be clear to anyone. In the framework of regional development, in addition to the basic ministry of regional development, we also have the National Agency for Regional Development, the Council for Regional and Equal Development, and offices by local self-government, etc. If we were to talk about it, to list all 110, it would take an hour. The goal is to get Serbian citizens out of all of this to conclude that this number of agencies, if God didn't come to an emergency, would only make the situation more difficult because where many people and factors are asked, you know what comes out of it in the end. The second thing I'd like to point out to this occasion is what the relationship between the current authorities and natural disasters is in practical situations. I will take an example of the great earthquake that struck the King in November last year. Statistics say earthquakes of that intensity happen every 10 years. For example, this earthquake shows the attitude of the government towards the citizens of the kings, the attitude toward economic operators in the royal municipality, and also how people’s suffering has become a subject of political trade. In particular, the earthquake was in November 2010 and already on 30 March 2011 at a session of SO was given an initiative to set up a commission to investigate irregularities and machinations created after the earthquake. I will read the agenda from that founding session, when a commission is established: Dinar's flow of money, entry-exit; Foreign exchange flow, entry-exit; Donations of building materials and their distribution; Donations of housing and their distribution; List of citizens who were unjustly assigned houses in the previous period. So, after a few months, there's been this kind of wavery that had to be set up and a special commission to investigate it. I'll state the most drastic case. After the earthquake, the crisis headquarters made a decision to build some 500 and more assembly houses and a consortium of companies from Republika Srpska made its offer, where the price for house installations, which were 40, 60 or 80 square meters, was 280 euros per metre square metre. It is likely that this would have been adopted if, as we were informed by the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Milan Markovic, who was the co-ordinator in this crisis area in front of the government, affected the tender to adopt an offer from some consortium from Ivanjica, which was 115 euros per square square more expensive. It's great that Mr. Markovic is there, I guess he'll explain, not to us, we know, but to the citizens of Serbia why this offer, which was the cheapest offer, but this one is more expensive, and unlike the price, for example, it could have been built 100 km times the width of four meters. We have pointed out this several times on local media, on TV "Melos", TV Kraljevo, and then in the press "Ibar News", "KV News", but we have never received an answer to that question, and Mr Markovic has probably won the October Award for a well done job, which means he has successfully done this job, and so are the Unsatisfactors of the Kings who have sent a letter to even President Tadic and are looking for an answer why they have been neglected... (President: Time. Our time is yet to come, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović, but here I will finish with one sentence, so next to the businessmen...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62163	We all have the right to illusions. Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62164	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry and Mr. Maric, I would first of all like to thank Mr. Markovic for everything you have done for the citizens of the Kings, for the citizens of the Shop. Human gratitude is greatest and immeasurable, it cannot cover any prize, but it is nice when you get a confession for what you did by helping the citizens of the Kings. Interestingly, none of the committee members have disputed this decision, except for this committee group that has fallen apart on several political parties, but they are a negligible statistical error in the King. Mr. Marić, I ask you to convey to all firefighters, all members of the rescue service of the MUP the deepest sincere gratitude for the unselfish nobility, sacrifice, expertise, engagement, nobility in saving human lives, because there is no greater value in the 21st century than in saving human life. The property can be compensated, it can be built that object that burned down, but I really ask you to convey to all the officers, to all the firefighters, to all the people who, not saving their lives, who, by sacrificing themselves, saved other people's lives, the sincere gratitude of all citizens, not just the town of Kruševac, from whom I come, but all of Serbia, because I think the whole of Serbia shares the highest feelings when it comes to these people. When we talk about this strategy, I'll be very brief, because there's not much to say. The strategy is clear, concise, precise. Under the circumstances, I have been a member of the Mountain Rescue Service for 25 years, participating with a humanitarian organization in hundreds of actions, in which I participated along with these wonderful guys from the Mountain Rescue Service, in saving human lives and in the Kopalnik and in the mountains of Serbia and in the mines, earthquakes, during NATO aggression. I think everything you've written in this strategy is worth it and how serious discussion and respect for your work and the work of people on the ground who, I say once again, save people's lives. I just want to say that the citizens of the Kings, the citizens of the studio, the locals of Usce, and how closely they followed your fire-fighting activities, that in the floods of the Shop, Zajecar, Ljubovija, Lozniki, Valjev, Osecina, Aleksinac were shown and what expertise, recruitment and professionality of the units that saved people. We had a slide in the village of Bodanje and an elementary disaster in Kraševec, Aleksandrovac, Pomoravalj, western Serbia. Once, when we had 32,000 missiles, both of which worked, and the other 31,880 didn't, we had a situation that in one night in Serbia we had a city fight, which took Serbian agriculture five years to recover, and that happened in 1999, when they had 32,000 missiles and now they accuse us of not firing rockets from NATO. We ask no one when we defend Serbia's sky, we love Serbia most in the world, we respect Russia, we respect the EU, but we love Serbia most in the world. When we want to defend Serbia's skies, we don't ask for consent, we fire rockets at what extent it takes, how necessary it is to protect Serbia. The floods that took place by Alexine were caused, above all, by the human neglect of the local population, not by the non-engagement of police officers. The elemental accident that took place in Kruševac, Aleksandrovac, is one of the largest in the history of the town of Kruševac in the last 130 years, as far as the elementary disasters are being studied. For the end, I have another request to make. You should work maximum on introducing a unique emergency number, because everywhere in the world that number exists. We now have a few numbers: 92 for the police, 93 for the fire department, 94 for the ambulance. Everywhere in the world is a 112 number calling for emergency assistance. Finally, some did not understand the message of vision and mission, they did not like that there are only three sentences. In his scientific will, Albert Einstein wrote a vision and mission of his action on planet Earth in a single sentence. Those who understood the progress of mankind and entered the 21st century, and those who didn't understand it remained in the 19th century and are neither happier nor sadder than us, but thanks to those people who had a vision and the ability to put that vision in one sentence, the planet goes in this direction in which it goes, they can't stop it, they can believe their delusions. For the finalists, in 1999, there were great floods, right after NATO aggression. Vojislav Seselj visited flooded areas and asked the people "do you know what I came for", and the people replied, "That disaster would be complete". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62165	According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62166	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think that you, most of those who elected you, are legitimately elected president. I respect that, and I'm talking to you. It's my second time today that a lady in the O.R. has been rudely saying that I'm done, that I don't have time, that I don't have the right to do business. I respect that you're the President of the Assembly, and thank you. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Because of the truth and because of what the former speaker said, which I'm sure of, Mr. Maric, as soon as this number 112 is established for emergencies, he'll be the first to contact you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62167	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62168	You should have reacted earlier. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you were part of the SRS coalition in 1999, and you know very well that as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was ordered the indictment and then prime minister of this elemental accident because Karli Del Ponte said "takes him and doesn't bring him back". So, our president is, as a responsible man and as Deputy Prime Minister, who, unlike those who did not pay for the flood in your Raca or in our Kragujevac, or in the area where Mr Popovic, or in Aleksinec, or in Kraševec, estimated damage, did it in 1999, even though it was NATO bombing and if it did, I remember it well that day, as if yesterday it was, August was, what happened after 5 October and the arrival of these pusts to power when they all wanted to grab it. They even wanted to accuse our president that he was, for God's sake, the means that were defined for something else, directed to the citizens for the flood in the area. He helped Serbian citizens then, and will only help them when the SRS comes back along with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-18-0.u62169	Since the lists of speakers are no longer registered for the word, nor are there those who have not used the right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
