ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54731	Thank you. Dear Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address you on the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services provided by the National Bank of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My exposure will be divided into three parts. In the first part, I will talk briefly about the constitutional basis, the reasons and objectives of the adoption of this law, in the second part about the main legal institutes introduced by this law and, finally, in the final part, I will give a brief conclusion. What is the constitutional basis, what are the reasons and what are the objectives of the adoption of this law? In view of the importance of the issue of protection of the rights and interests of beneficiaries of financial services, and given that the new Consumer Protection Act does not cover the whole, the NBS proposes the adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services which will regulate the protection of users of banking services, financial lease services and users in the financial contract. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia where it is found that the Republic of Serbia protects consumers and that particularly prohibited actions are directed against the health, safety and privacy of consumers, as well as any dishonest market activities, as well as Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, at point 6), according to which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a single market, the legal position of economic operators, the system of performance of business and other activities, monetary, banking, foreign and customs systems, economic relations with the foreign and tax system, and in point 17) of the same article under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides other relations of interest to the Republic of Serbia. As regards the National Bank of Serbia as a proposing, I would like to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Articles 107, 2 in the part of the "Right to Propose of Law", provides that the NBS has the right to propose laws out of jurisdiction. The National Bank of Serbia is in accordance with Article 3. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, in addition to achieving its primary goal, is to achieve and maintain price stability and to contribute to the preservation and strengthening of financial stability in our country, which has also been identified as one of its legal functions. The law also lays down the supervisory, supervisory function of the NBS over banks, insurance companies, financial lenders and voluntary pension fund management companies, which it performs in accordance with the laws governing the business of those entities. So, the National Bank of Serbia, in accordance with its powers and obligations, is overseeing, i.e., the supervisory of business-based financial institutions whose goal, as in the world, is the protection of funds, above all, depositors, insurance companies and members of voluntary pension funds, but in the ultimate instance and money of our country's taxpayers. This implies that financial institutions act in their dealings with clients in accordance with good business practices, in a fair and transparent manner, with adequate, timely, truthful, unequivocal and reliable information, thus ensuring an equal relationship between clients and financial institutions, and thus protecting the users of the services of those institutions. In the banking sector, the National Bank of Serbia has sought to establish the basic rules of operations of these institutions in order, above all, to establish a system of trust between citizens and legal persons in these institutions through the protection of their rights and the establishment of the possibility of these rights being protected and with the assistance of the NBS through a free process of intervention from the NBS, which many of our citizens serve in the protection of their rights, based on the 2005 Banks Act which introduced provisions relating to fair practice, good business practices and client objections. In 2006, a decision was taken on a unique manner, accounting and publication of an effective interest rate on deposits and loans, and then a project on the protection of users was organised in 2006, and a Centre for Protection was established, which began on 1 January 2007 under the National Bank of Serbia. Due to the emergence of unfair practice by one number of banks, in particular in the case of unilateral and non-transparent change in variable interest rates on loans in terms of their uncertainty, recommendations were made in 2008 for banks which were not binding in terms of taking appropriate measures. After that, in 2009, a decision was taken on the way and procedure of implementing the general conditions of business, which was based on EU Directive No 48 of 2008 but did not cover it as a whole, since there was no basis for this in the applicable Banks Act. However, although the activities of the National Bank of Serbia to protect clients above all from unilateral changes in contractual obligations and the rights of financial service providers to unilaterally change contractual interest yield positive results, we have assessed that a special law should explicitly regulate mandatory elements of the contract, then the rights and obligations of financial service providers, as well as the rights that the client has under these financial institutions. Also, consumer protection is Serbia's international commitment. On the basis of Article 78. The law attesting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement also provides for the harmonisation of our legislation in the area of consumer protection as a user of financial services with EU standards, and the National Integration Plan adopted on the basis of the agreement sets out the implementation of EU Directive No 48 from 2008 to our legislation, which is currently related to consumer lending. Given the importance of the issue of protection of the rights and interests of beneficiaries of financial services, in general, which has been particularly escalated during the financial crisis period both in the world and in ours, as well as the fact that this substance has not been regulated by the new Consumer Protection Act, and this is precisely because it has been estimated that the area of financial services should be governed by a more detailed and comprehensively specific law, as well as by international obligations, we propose the adoption of a law on the protection of users of financial services, which will be regulated in a comprehensive and systematic manner to protect the users of banking services, financial lease services and users in so-called. the financial contract, i.e. in all arrangements that the trader has with its customers in the context of delayed payment of purchased goods. Issues which are not covered by this law shall be subject to provisions governing consumer protection, bank operations, financial leasers, i.e. payment turnover in dinars and foreign payment funds, as well as provisions of the laws governing bond relations. In the draft law, the National Bank of Serbia has, above all, been managed by the needs of the domestic market and has therefore benefited from certain existing legal solutions of the selected EU member states, especially when it comes to the specific rights of consumers, i.e. the beneficiary of financial services. In this way, it sought to increase the protection of these users. This proposal, namely, not only introduces Directive 2008/48 on consumer lending to the greatest extent possible, but also covers some other rights of users corresponding to the specificities of the domestic market, such as the application of the same type of course in the approval and payment of loans, the determination of variable elements of the contract, etc. But other financial services to which the said directive does not directly apply are covered, and in line with the good practice of developed European countries. So, for example, while the Consumer Credit Directive covers every loan of 200 to 75,000 euros in European legislation, in the form of loans, financial leases, over-accounts, credit cards and other financial contracts, the bill includes all loans, and those up to 200 and those over 75,000 euros, as well as housing loans, deposits, accounts, debit cards, other banking services, such as the rental of safes. We believe that only by covering the users of all financial services is it possible to provide a framework for the full protection of financial services users. In this way, domestic legislation, such as the legislation of some developed countries (e.g. France), does not make a difference between the so-called consumer and housing loans. It also covers part of the 2007 Payment Services Directive, number 64, in the section relating to payment cards. Two public debates were held prior to the definition of the bill's proposal, with the participation of the Ministry of Trade and Services, banks, financial lysing providers, the Association of Banks of Serbia, the Association of Financial Lising Providers and the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia. The suggestions received by the relevant ministries were also accompanied and all suggestions and remarks we considered justified and did not violate the objective of the law and water for its greater efficiency were respected. The bill aims to (1) improve the business practice and fair relations of financial institutions towards financial services users; 2) reduce the transaction costs and growth of competition in the financial market; 3) further strengthen trust in the financial sector; 4) define additional preconditions for the stability of the financial sector and its further and smooth development in our country; 5) regulate the area of protection of the rights and interests of financial services users in line with EU practice. The law regulates the rights of users of financial services, informing users of the conditions under which financial services are offered and used, the conditions and the manner in which users are informed of their rights, and the protection of the rights and interests of the beneficiaries of financial services. Legal institutes defined in the draft law are based on the following basic rights of users of financial services, declared by that proposal and in accordance with which this law should be interpreted in application. These are: the right to have an equal relationship with a financial service provider, the right to information, the right to a definition or determination of a contractual obligation, protection against discrimination and the right to protection of rights and interests. In particular, it is necessary to stress the right to have an equal relationship with the financial service provider, which confirms one of the basic principles of the Law on Liabilities defined by Article 11 of that Act and in general the contractual law, which states that the parties in the contractual relationship are equal. In this way we wanted to highlight the necessity of applying this principle in the sphere of financial services, which so far in practice, unfortunately, as we have seen, has often not been implemented. What are the main legal institutes to be introduced by this law? The first one I'd like to point out to you is the institution of determination or determination of contractual obligation. These are the members of the 8th and 26th. It's a bill of law. One of the basic legal institutes that reflects the objective of the proposed text of the law is the institution of determination, i.e. the determination of the level of contractual obligation, which, in the case of contracts with financial services users, usually comes down to the definition, i.e. the determination of the level of interest rate. In fact, in the contractual relationship between the users and the financial institution, although the party's equality has been formally declared, there was in practice a significant disproportionateity of the power that stems most from the financial force of the financial institution. In such relations, there has often been a practice of financial institutions to change the level of interest rate depending on undefined conditions, often generally laid down, e.g. the conditions in the financial market or specific policies of the institution and similar preconditions. In this way, these institutions reserved for themselves the right to unilaterally change the level of contractual obligations of debtors, mostly through a unilateral increase in the rate of agreed interest. In this way, financial institutions have in fact created an anti-legal practice of the inequality of the parties. The causes of the established practice of contracting financial services can be discussed, so that as one reason it can indicate the absence of financial services on the domestic market, especially loans, for a number of years in the previous time period, especially during the 1990s. This affected the general level of awareness of financial service users, as well as the manner of behaviour of providers in this debt-confidential relationship in the sphere of financial services, which in practice has often been converted into a disproportionate relationship between the mutual giving and the inequality of contracting parties which is explicitly negotiated by access contracts, whose terms dictated by one contracting party, and thus by the service provider. In such circumstances, one of the basic objectives of the law on the protection of users of financial services is to correct the reality of the impaired balance between users and financial service providers. For those reasons, the draft law defined the precise criteria for the determination of the monetary contractual obligation, as well as the determination of the variable interest rate, in that their height is related to the reference elements which are officially published, such as the reference interest rate, the consumer price index or other benchmarks which are publicly available and which have such a nature that they cannot be affected by the unilateral will of any contracting party, whether it is the provider or the service user. It is also prohibited to refer to the specific policy of the service provider regarding the essential elements of the contract. This will enable the application of the principle of equality of parties, which is one of the basic objectives of the law, to be applied in practice. Also, this protects the interests of our citizens who, as a rule, represent in contracts with financial institutions in practice a weaker, often less educated, side. The second institute that we introduce is the time-consistency of the law, Article 54. One of the basic objectives of this law is to correct the practice of a distortion of balance between users and financial service providers; however, by entering into the text of the laws of the provisions relating to the determination and determination of the contractual obligation, rules providing for the equality of the parties only for contractual relations concluded after the application of the law. It was therefore necessary to prescribe the obligation to apply those members and to the obligations which come after the date of application of this law, regardless of the time of completion of the contractual relationship of which they represent. This is defined by Article 54. It's a bill of law. It is important to stress that the provisions relating to the determination and determination of the contractual obligation apply to legal situations only from the moment of application of the law, which means that final rights and obligations are not applied. In this way, the retroactivity of law enforcement has been avoided and the principle of legal certainty as far as the facts are concerned is concerned. The reason for prescribing the provisions of Article 54 is the previously established general interest which is determined by a constitutional provision that prescribes the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to protect consumers and prohibits any dishonest activities on the market in this context (Article 90). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). The practice of contracting the right of an economically stronger party (financial institutions, as a rule) to unilaterally change the level of the contractual obligation by accessing the contract, most often in the form of a unilateral increase in the rate of agreed interest, as well as to agree on the right to unilaterally determine the time of maturity of the debtor's contractual obligation, which violates the equality of the parties, and it is one of the basic contractual relations, is an obvious example of the dishonest activities in the market for financial services that require consumers to protect this law. The reason for the regulation of Article 54 is also the general interest in preserving and strengthening the stability of the country's financial system, in accordance with Article 3(2). The Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia contributed. In particular, the conclusion of a contract on financial services that contains provisions that violate the equality of the parties exposes financial institutions to a high legal risk, i.e. lead to the possibility of insolvency of the debtors in the extreme instance, which, since it is a very widespread phenomenon in our system, can expose financial institutions not only to reputation risks but also to financial losses, and this can continue to be known by the rapid spread of citizens' mistrust in financial institutions to jeopardise the stability of the financial system, with potentially significant costs for taxpayers and the decline in economic activity of the country. The introduction of certainty and legal certainty in the contractual relations of financial institutions also protects their individual financial stability, the financial stability of the financial system they form, as well as the prospects for further development and growth of financial transactions in the country. Third, right to information. The protection of users of financial services is primarily based on the need to provide them with the necessary information in good time, full, reliable and relevant, which is the basis for the protection of users. Only well-informed and financially educated users can make a responsible decision on the use of financial services. These services are complex and their fact is long-term and hence the need for an increased level of consumer information or financial service users. The draft law stipulates that banks and leasers are obliged to advertise credit and deposit services where the advertising message contains an interest rate, or any numerical data relating to the price or income through a representative example. This representative example must contain the following: the amount of effective interest rate to be written in such a way as to be more visible than any other element, the currency of expression of financial work, the period at which it is contracted, the criteria for potential indexing of such a financial contract and any other related costs. If a credit or lease is issued whose nominal interest rate is, for example, zero percent, all the conditions under which the loan is granted must be indicated. In other words, advertising shall be prohibited from using terms that mark credit or leases free of charge if the approval of that loan or the lease is conditional upon the conclusion of another contract or is conditioned by anything representing the cost or may constitute a cost to the user or create any other obligation. If the conclusion of the loan contract is mandatory and the conclusion of a secondary service contract, let's say the insurance agreement and others, and the price of the secondary service cannot be determined in advance, the existence of such an obligation shall be clearly, summed up and visiblely. The fourth legal institute I'd like to single out specifically for today is to give up the contract. This is Article 12. It's a bill of law. The Institute of withdrawal from the contract introduced by the draft law represents a newspaper in our legislation, which has been adopted in the text of the proposal from EU Directive No 48 of 2008. This directive is, as we know, primarily aimed at regulating consumer lending relations. As already mentioned, one of the objectives of the bill's proposal, in addition to the closer regulation of the relationship between users and financial service providers on the local market of the Republic of Serbia, was to bring these relations into line with EU rules, which is our obligation under the agreements concluded with the European Union. That institution established the right of users to withdraw from the credit agreement, to withdraw from the contract of over-account, to issue and use credit card contracts, to lease and financial contract within 14 days of the date of conclusion of the contract, without giving rise to grounds for withdrawal. The user who gives up the loan contract shall be obliged to return the principal and the interest from the underlying business within 30 days of the date of sending the notice of withdrawal to the bank during the time of the use of the credit, while the user who gives up the lease and the financial contract shall be obliged to return the subject matter of the lease within 30 days from the date of the withdrawal notice, i.e. the subject of the purchase, to compensate for the damage suffered if the value has been reduced and to pay the agreed interest from the basic job until the date of return of the lease. In the case of residential loans, the user may use the right to withdraw only on condition that the funds are not made available to him, i.e. that he did not place them in the function of obtaining the immovable property. In this way, the right to give up is limited to loans which, as a rule, reach the highest values for consumers, requiring them to give good thought before the conclusion of these contracts, since their conclusion produces long-term and serious property consequences. The reason for the provision of an institution of withdrawal from the contract is so-called the period of thinking cold head or "cooling off" period, or the period when the user, as a person who does not possess perhaps all the necessary knowledge of financial services, gives after the conclusion of the contract the right to reconsider the financial service it purchases and the obligations it produces. In this way, the user, who is often inadequately addressed by the party, sets himself in a more equal relationship with a financial institution that is well aware of the financial product he offers, as well as the provisions of the contract after the approach he writes. The period of additional thinking is reduced to 14 days, which represents a reasonable time, given the purpose of its determination. As regards the above, it notes once again that by prescribing this institute, domestic legislation is in line with Aki's EU communiqué and thus enables the equality of domestic consumers with consumers in the EU. The fifth institute I want to draw your attention to at this time is early repayment of the loan. This is Article 36. It's a bill of law. The Institute of Early Loan Payments already knows domestic regulations and is also familiar with the contract practice of banks. The draft law aimed to regulate the specified matter closer and to bring it into line with the EU Directive No. 48 of 2008 and in order to ensure a fair relationship, the mutual property provision of the donor and the beneficiaries of the financial service in the event of early repayment, which protects the interests of our citizens, who are often exposed to high fees in the event of early payment deprived of the use of that right, significantly increase the overall level of transaction costs in the financial system and reduce the competitiveness of the financial system in general. Also, some banks differ from the amount of early payment compensation in the event that the user has early repayment of the loan from its own funds, when a lower fee is paid by the rule, or when he pays it out of another bank's loan funds, through refinancing, when, as a rule, a higher fee is charged. We believe that this is completely unwarranted, since for the bank where the credit is paid, it should not be a relevant source of early payment financing, because it receives its assets in both cases as a whole. Such a practice of certain banks prevents the market behaviour of our citizens and the achievement of an effective market for financial services. The introduction of this institute fully resolves these issues in the following way. The right of the beneficiary of a financial service to early repayment of credit shall be subject to the right to, at any point in time, complete or in part, carry out all the obligations under the loan contract; in that case, the debtor shall be entitled to reduce the total cost of the credit for the amount of interest and the costs for the remaining period of the contract. The service provider may require compensation for early payment only if the payment is made during the period for which a fixed interest rate is agreed and provided that the amount of early payment is greater than 600,000 dinars over 12 months. The amount of the compensation shall be limited to up to 1% of the amount of the early repayment loan, if the period between the early payment and the maturity of the commitment from the loan contract is longer than one year. If this period is shorter than one year, then the maximum amount of compensation is limited – to 0.5%. An early payment fee may not be required if the payment has been made on the basis of a completed insurance contract, the purpose of which is to ensure the payment of the credit; in the case of overpayments, and if the payment is made during the period for which the variable nominal interest rate is agreed. The sixth legal institute I'd like to draw your attention to is right about the payment card. This is Article 38. It's a bill of law. This institute is also one of the institutions taken over from EU law, and Directive 64 of 2007 on payment services. The increase in the number of cards issued is a growing problem of their loss, i.e. abuse in the event of loss. The bill stipulates that the payment card user is obliged to report a loss or theft of the payment card without delay. The bank is obliged to make it possible for him at any time. Otherwise, the user does not suffer the consequences of unauthorized use. Also, in the event of an unauthorised use of a payment card, the user is obliged to report an unauthorized transaction immediately after that knowledge and no later than 45 days from the date of the inauguration. In this case, it can bear a loss of up to 15,000 dinars. The user shall bear all losses in the event that the abuse I have made, that he does not fulfil the obligations arising from the prescribed conditions on the issue and use of the payment card, that he does not inform the bank of the loss or reasonable suspicion that the theft of the payment card has been committed, that he does not adequately store a personal identification number. After reporting to the Bank, the loss or reasonable doubt that the theft of the user does not bear the losses incurred on that basis. Also, the bill also stipulates the right of users to free card shutting down, given that the issuer's observed practice to offer users a large number of payment cards obtained without the cost of issuing, however, if the user wants to shut down the payment card the most frequently recorded cases in which users had to pay the cancellation fee. In this way, issuers will have to charge immediately, which will stimulate users to take only those cards for which they are willing to pay the necessary cost. This should increase transparency and competitiveness in this market. The seventh legal institute I'd like to draw your attention to is right about the bill. This is Article 37. It's a bill of law. The draft law defines and determines the rights of the user in relation to the bank account which enables the purpose of the account contract to be realised, given that it is in practice that some fees make it impossible for the user to be available freely by means of their own means. The following rights for users have been established: 1) raising cash without compensation, 2) raising funds immediately after a recorded inflow, no compensation, 3) free of charge, 4) monthly user notification of overaccounts and once a year delivery of free notice of his debt under a loan, lease or credit card contract. It is also prescribed that the bank is obliged, if it increases the fee by account above the agreed amount, to notify the user no later than 15 days before the application of the amended fee; in that case, the user may immediately transfer the funds to another bank or raise funds in cash and shut down the account without charge. The eighth legal institute I'd like to draw your attention to is protecting the rights of the user. The draft law also provides for the way in which the rights set out in this draft law are protected. Monetary penalties, violations, as well as the procedure of extrajudicial resolution of the disputed relationship have been prescribed. When prescribing, it was taken into account that the protection procedure was quick, simple, accessible, efficient and complementary with the court procedure in order to enable effective protection of the rights of users of financial services. The transitional and final provisions specify that the law enters into force within six months of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The deadline for the adoption of sub-legislative acts of three months from the entry into force of the law is also specified; then, the deadline of the next three months for the alignment of the business of financial service providers with this law, as well as the obligation of financial institutions to comply with the provisions of the concluded contracts relating to the determination or call for business policy when changing the elements of the variable interest rate, i.e. the rules of the contract, as well as the variable nominal interest rate, with the provisions of this law within six months of its entry into force. Finally, in short, I would like to conclude that the adoption of this Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in our opinion, would lead to the achievement of several objectives: firstly, the improvement of business practice and fair relations with financial services users in our country; secondly, the reduction of the transaction costs and the growth of the competitiveness of the financial system in our country; thirdly, the strengthening of trust in the financial sector; fourthly, the security of the preconditions for further smooth development of the financial system in our country and, finally, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legal assets through the adoption of the relevant provisions already part of the European Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54732	Let me thank the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Dejan Soskic, the representative of the proposings, and before we continue to work to welcome, on behalf of you and your behalf, representatives of the Hungarian parliamentary group Fides, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. They are present: Mr. Janos Lazar, head of the Fides parliamentary group, Dr. Barnabas Balco, personal secretary of the parliamentary group's head and Zigmont Perenji, head of the foreign policy cabinet of Fides. Let's give them a round of applause. Do the rapporteurs of the committees responsible, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration or the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Which one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wants a word? National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54733	Thank you, Madam President. Thank the governor for this exhaustive explanation of the bill. Therefore, the law on the protection of consumers of financial services should, together with the already adopted Consumer Protection Act, circle the consumer protection system in Serbia. When we discussed the consumer protection bill in the Assembly seven or eight months ago, we MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia then suggested that it was not good that the whole chapter on the protection of the users of financial services was left out of the law. So we also pointed out back then, but also today, that this matter should have been in this unique law that protects the rights of all consumers, including consumers or users of financial services. It's kind of a general impression, now that this bill is ahead of us, that this bill is actually the result of months-long negotiations, that is, what the people say is "single" with banks, banks, etc. and that there was at least (or very little) consultation with consumer associations, i.e. financial services users. So, that's the impression, because at a time when this chapter was left out of the general Consumer Protection Act it was evident that banks and how they pressured the then Ministry of Trade, which was the legislator of the law, that it was the general impression that this bill, as I said, was the result of this months-long negotiation. The impression is increasing further by proposing this law as the National Bank of Serbia, not by the ministry responsible for consumer protection affairs. The then Minister of Trade Slobodan Milosavljevic and the citizens and MPs in this house promised that this matter would be regulated, i.e. that his Ministry will regulate this matter soon, however, we see that the Ministry is now not showing up, but that it is the National Bank as a proposer. Of course, the National Bank of Serbia, according to the Constitution and the National Bank Act, has every right to be the legislator of the law. Otherwise, I am proud of my parliamentary group, which has in due course given the amendment to one draft law so that all who have proposed may and may address the MPs in this assembly. Why am I suspicious when it comes to this bill and the National Bank of Serbia? The very reason for this law is that the National Bank of Serbia... So, I quote from the explanation: "The National Bank of Serbia has established many of its decisions, recommendations and other documents, games for the business of financial institutions, and would firstly establish a system of trust between citizens and legal persons in these institutions through the protection of their rights and the establishment of the possibility of these rights being protected with the help of the National Bank of Serbia. “ A quote has been completed. So, in one word, you claim that the National Bank has been the protector of all financial services users so far. If so, why at this point are citizens who are users of various financial services feeling very unprotected? How did you allow many users to become victims of the so-called internal policy of certain banks? So under that sentence there are various measures of individual banks, which in most cases were not fair. And at this point, and I'm afraid even when we pass this law and some of the measures you've already prescribed apply, many families will think they've fallen into debt slavery. When we talk about this, I think that you and how do you know that a group of financial services users (I will not mention the name of that bank for correctness) in 2007, through an aggressive campaign that this bank normally always practices, took long-term loans; then the interest rate of 3.9% was prescribed, at this point these citizens are paying off loans at an interest rate of 6.9 and around 7! I won't mention the name of the bank, but I'm sure you know who it's about. They complained to you, complained to MP groups as well. When it comes to the fact that it is possible for a family to fall into debt slavery, financial services users, for example, these banks are indeed in debt slavery. You've been talking exhaustively about some newspapers prescribed by this law, very exhaustingly, so I'm going to cut it short. Of course, there are some good newspapers and things, it's just a question of whether this law is going to apply or whether, as many laws we pass, it won't apply. Otherwise, this law is supposed to apply in six months, that's about the end of the year. The newspapers are numerous, from the regulation to the regulation of advertising, so how financial services are advertised, then information, then through realisation and credit payments, i.e. the lising, to final repayments. So in all these segments or stages there is a newspaper; you try to regulate it in some way and you see the intention to introduce this law new rules in business. You were also talking about advertising regulations. So I think there are good solutions here, depending on how those involved will abide by these rules. It will be prohibited for the financial service provider to advertise a loan or lease for free if the approval is conditioned by some other services that will and how to charge, so when the user thinks they will use a financial service and that the service will be "free", then wait for a whole set of costs to be paid. It's a good thing you're banning that kind of advertising. For those of us who don't really see well, what you're saying is that an effective interest rate can't appear in a footnote with a star, where you practically need a microscope to see, because it's not good and it automatically suspects the intentions of someone who advertises it. If you want to get into a relationship, you're serious and you want to have a serious user and client, I guess it's in your best interest to keep him informed. You prescribe here and the obligation that the service provider informs and informs and informs the users in due time, at all stages. It's clear here what pre-negotiation is. It seems to me like it's a newspaper, although I suppose the banks have done this before, but it's good to have a regulation that says what pre-contractual notification is. Here it is also said that the future user of the service has the right to look at the draft contract, which then allows him to compare it with other plans, consult experts, etc. So that's good. You also prescribed what mandatory elements are in the contract as well as in some other documents, what they must contain. We have some amendments here; when we talk about details, we may convince you to accept some of these amendments. When it comes to a fixed rate contract, a financial service provider cannot change it without informing the user first and, of course, getting consent from him. However, that is the case only when fixed interest rates are involved; in the case of contracts with variable interest rates, the client, i.e. the customer, is only informed. So there's no possibility of a deal. Then it can be expected from banks, I suppose, to be an ever smaller supply of fixed interest loans (that's some prediction) and a much larger offer of loans with variable interest rates. There's been a regulated delay in payoffs here, so it's too late. It was prescribed to pay off the loan before the time, which is good. So far, this matter has caused major problems for users, and banks have, of course, insisted on these previous agreements so as not to accidentally lose money. The bill also states that it is possible to give up the contract already concluded, whether the loan, the allowable overrun of the account, the issue and use of the credit card contracts, the lease and the financial contract. Therefore, after signing the contract, the user shall have the right to give up that contract within fourteen days. I see that the Government has directed (we have received this in the Assembly) and an amendment to this article. It seems to me that this is a little more specific to their amendment, and I assume that the majority of the parliament will accept those amendments that came from the government. It says here that closing the account and shutting down credit cards should be a free bank service. These costs so far ranged from 100 dinars to as much as 2,500 dinars. Imagine, we have a bank in Serbia that wants to shut down accounts or cards to pay 2,500 dinars?- I'm sorry. It's a good thing you're prescribing banks here that these services should be free of charge. So, as for the abuse of credit cards, you got an amendment from the government to members who talk about this; it's their attempt, I guess, to make this a little more specific. In the bill, you say that in the event of loss, theft, unauthorized use of the payment card, the user (so, if there has already been an abuse), can bear up to 150 euros in costs. Of course, there are also obligations that the user must immediately, it seems to me by 30 days at the latest, I may have wronged the number, to report all this, therefore, loss, theft, to notice that it was unauthorizedly used, etc. I see from the media that the banks (or the Banks Association) have rebelled against this member and these possibilities, believing that it can be the subject of abuse by the cardholders themselves, however, if the state is seriously working and serious control is carried out, it cannot be so that their fears are unwarranted. All in all, this bill is an attempt to resolve the imbalance between financial service providers and users of these services. Banks will be limited to some, for them very important, commissions and fees; I mentioned some. However, in the past experience of the relationship between business banks and clients, I don't think we have to be overjoyed and expect banks to accept less profits than they have achieved so far, and that those, or financial service providers, will increase the cost of compensation for those services that are not prescribed by this law, and there are. It is quite clear that such a law cannot limit some income as interest on credit; it is clear that it is the bank's policy, its positioning on the market. But this law does not stipulate any ordinary fees, such as a loan processing fee or a transfer fee. Probably through these services, as well as through others, keeping current accounts of citizens etc., banks will make up for the profits they will lose because you prescribed that some measures be free of charge. So you can expect to collect some other services. Generally observed, the new law will give users better information, information and greater rights in some areas of business with business banks, but will collect fees and interest, which are not regulated by law. This will mean more interest rates on loans, higher fees for processing credit requirements, as well as more expensive running of current accounts. Whoever's doing it has a current account, and they don't all have credits, so we can all expect a rise in the prices of some other services together. In one word, you have tried to put order here, to close some windows and say – you know what, financial service providers, you cannot do that to Serbian citizens and that, some things you do not do in other European countries. But you left some other windows open, which will benefit those in the best interest of profit and profit, so the money will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54734	Seventeen minutes and forty-five seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences who are visiting the House of the National Assembly and are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Present are: Mihajlo Protic, Radovan Savic, Jelena Janjic, Anastasija Lazić, Fedja Kardić, Marko Stojanović, Katarina Filipović, Daniela Nedaković, Milos Bare, Stefan Radovanović, Aleksandar Vukić, Jovan Nerandzic, Ana Durakli, Dragana Špikić, Milos Marković, Vladimir Lazar, Manuela Radenović, Nenad Radojević, Bojana Petrovic, Svetlana Konstadinović, Nemanja Kurbalija, Nenad Filipović, Miljana Djorić, Sanja Opačić, Jovana Đurić, Nemanja Vojnovići Danijela Tvrdić. Welcome to the National Assembly, welcome to your house. Before I give my word to the next MP, authorised representative of the SPS Parliamentary Group Zoran Kasalovic, on the basis of Article 90(1), I would like to give you the notice I consider necessary to work on today. Given that a total of nine MPs have been reported for the debate, according to the application for a word, in the principle of a review of the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, and that there is a time management based on our Rules of Procedure, so that we can assess how long it takes and that there was information that the debate on the Amendment Bill and the amendment of the Law on the selection of MPs will open tomorrow, Thursday, 12 May, 12 May, at 10.00 p.m., the Committee on Justice and Administration has scheduled a public hearing on the draft law on the financing of political activities and that we have information that a huge number of MPs want to participate in public hearings, I hereby inform that we will be working until the break today, which will be determined when we complete the debate in the principle of the agenda. Afterwards, we will open a search on the amendment and addition of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, but without further work, only to do as planned for tomorrow, that, after the quorum has been determined and without moving to part of the session, Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, therefore, only after the quorum has been determined, allow all MPs to participate in the public hearing on the draft law on the financing of political activities. We'll decide what to do tomorrow. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, an authorised representative, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54735	Dear Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the rights and interest of citizens of financial services users of the SPS - JS undoubtedly considers a significant issue, especially because this is a very significant problem and touches a large number of citizens of our country. Each of us, of course, and every family, was able to take some kind of credit, licking or some other kind of financial service. Of course, the need for regulation of this matter has been confirmed in real practice, which is caused by the phenomenon, as the governor himself has stated in the opening statement, unfair relations in this issue, because it is characterized by an unequal relationship in the strength of financial institutions and clients themselves, of course, caused by the very specific nature of this business and relationship. All these processes that have been present in our country so far have escalated with the emergence of a major economic crisis. Certainly these reasons are primary and sufficient to justify the need for this matter in the Republic of Serbia to be regulated and regulated by law. This would be the primary reason, in our understanding, and of course it is not negligible and it is a good thing that this bill includes good practice of EU standards, i.e. Directive 2008/48. This law is practical and done. We believe that such a concise law will allow for better relations between financial institutions and clients, fair contractual relations. There are a number of provisions in this law that the governor spoke about in detail, which are in favour of this finding. Citizens will certainly benefit through the protection of their rights. When it comes to this law, it is the legislator's instinct that users of services, i.e. citizens and all of us who are able to borrow or use some kind of financial services, be primarily timely and truthfully informed, protected from incorrect information, which has been in practice so far, which has created confusion among citizens and some kind of deception. Article 6 explicitly provides that financial services must be advertised in a clear and understandable way and that advertising cannot contain incorrect information. Someone would say that this explicit provision may be excessive because it resembles certain provisions such as those that say “do not throw waste on the floor” or something similar that may be understood. At one point, I was inclined to do so myself, because untrue advertising by any financial house, the renome banks would certainly not be in favour, especially in market conditions, but, while respecting the practice so far and the need for this to be defined, we are creating the possibility that this kind of practice, if it has or appears, will be clearly sanctioned. We consider it a fine of 300,000 to 3 million dinars, if I'm not mistaken, a truly appropriate punishment for this kind of offense. Of course, this intensity, as regards well-informed citizens, i.e. financial services users, is strengthened through one provision in Article 14, which is that financial institutions themselves are obliged to place a certain accent on skills and expertise and to engage in financial services sales operations fully prepared, educated staff, as well as to have some kind of permanent staff training on these jobs. I think it is very important at this stage, which the legislator clearly foresees in Article 7, and goes in favour of protecting users, that the contract cannot contain provisions that disown the rights which are explicitly guaranteed by this law. It certainly excludes any possibility of manipulation, deception by anyone, so that the user does not exercise the rights guaranteed by this law. Of course, this is strengthened in Article 8 – the contract cannot contain any reference norms to business policy when it comes to the elements of the contract prescribed by law as mandatory elements of the contract. When we look at a whole spectrum of provisions, it goes in this direction. I would like to apostrophe and bring just a few of them in the direction of this legislation's intensities, and they are certainly going towards better information and protection of citizens, users of financial services. First of all, the provisions of Article 16 which go towards not using some very convenient provisions for manipulation, such as advertising credit or lising, whose nominal interest rate is 0%. This Member shall prohibit the use of such expressions if the approval of such credit or lease is subject to certain other costs or any other obligation of the client. This is very popular and tempting, however, it happened that when citizens go to the bank, they either do a lease or some other financial services, they make sure that there is a lot of paper, some other obligations, guarantees, opening, closing, which was not already, which requires additional costs, so it really turns out that it is not 0%. Of course, this provision in Article 16 is very good and in that sense prevents this kind of manipulation. The draft law clearly provides for the mandatory content of the banking and lease contracts. The written consent of the user, which is very important, is necessary for some of the mandatory elements of the contract to be changed; therefore, without that consent it will no longer be possible. Another good provision, in my opinion, is the right to pay off credit according to the same type of course that was applied when granting the loan, of course, if it is a credit indexed or approved in a foreign currency. As my predecessor has already stated, there have been certain objections in the professional public, above all from the Banks' Association. However, the SPS - JS parliamentary club feels that this right, prescribed by Article 12, can be considered a good solution within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract without any reason. This is another confirmation and guarantee of the protection of the rights of users of financial services. Another 30 days is the deadline, of course, with a certain notice within 14 days, to return the funds that were used. Another institution that goes in that direction, which can reflect additional security in the relations between financial institutions and citizens and the possibility of strengthening additional trust in this contractual relationship, but above all in strengthening the security of our citizens in the financial system, is a provision in Article 32, which provides for a kind of delay in paying off liabilities based on credit. If during a contractual relationship some circumstances arise that the creditor (or financial services of any kind) will lead to a difficult property situation or circumstances which he cannot influence, in agreement, or at the request of the user (every citizen will be able to use that option if it is in such a situation), the bank may grant its own moratorium on repayment and refund of those funds for a certain period of time during which a tightened interest is not calculated. It is certain that such a provision will further strengthen the trust, i.e. the security of all those entering into some form of contractual relationship for the use of credit, lising or other financial activities. The provisions of Article 39, which relate to the deduction of claims (which in practice has been a common case in the last few years), clearly provide that a client cannot be brought into a more unfavourable position, nor may he be subject to any additional obligations and additional costs on that basis, if the claims are made to another person. We believe that this law really has a lot of good provisions and that citizens will feel the results of this law very quickly. Of course, first of all, we are in favour of consistent application of all the provisions of this law and we believe that a consistent application and criminal policy, which is appropriate and divided into two levels of violations... The fines of 500,000 dinars and fines from 500,000 to 3 million (I said by mistake of 300,000 and 3 million, so 500,000 and 3 million), as foreseen. In the 50th and 51st, it is really well-prohibited enough that all those covered by this law clearly and unequivocally apply that law. The SPS - JS Parliament Club accepts this bill in principle. We are prepared, of course, to consider this and possibly accept this through a debate in principle and in particular, if certain improved provisions of this law are raised. First of all, we believe that this law is adopted in the best of intentions for a large number of citizens and that it will soon really begin to show results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54736	Thirteen minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54737	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a very important law ahead of us, and for the SRS, it is basically a law that will bring some relations between the donors and the users of financial services. However, we have many objections to the provisions of this law. The first question the Serbian Radical Party would refer to the legislator is: why do we have today's proposal for this law? If we want to protect financial services users, why hasn't it been done by the current government long before? Even during the constitution of this government, there was an initiative regarding protection. Certain NGOs have advocated the story, especially the consumer protection associations, which have asked for and demanded from previous governments. However, here it is today that we have received this law. This is an incomplete law, a law that will protect new users. What about the old users? What was the situation in the field of consumer protection until today? Not at all. The provisions of the National Bank Act gave the right and opportunity to the authorities of the National Bank and the National Bank as the highest monetary and financial institution in the state to protect the users of financial resources, but there was no objective protection. Today we have over-indebted citizens, over-indebted legal persons, over-indebted states, over-indebted local self-government. It is not disputed to be in charge, but it is disputed under which conditions we are in debt and what are the basic elements of the contracts that exist between financial service providers and financial service users. Was all that in accordance with the law? It's not. The National Bank of Serbia, regardless of the lack of such a type of protection of users of financial services, had the provisions of a positive right, had the Law on Liabilities which clearly requires all participants in bonding relations to behave fairly, not to deceive one another, that the contractual obligation was determined and determined. Only by this law in Article 8 do you ask the parties to make contracts, i.e. the service provider obliged to contract a specific contractual obligation and a specific contractual obligation. Why wasn't that practice? You've had dozens and hundreds, especially in the last year or two, of objections coming to the National Bank by the users of financial services who have been deceived. These are double-crossing shops, these are interest-stores, they're protruding, drinking shops organised by banks. You're the witnesses of all this. I'll give you a few examples here, I've got them on me. We all meet damaged people in life, people who, in a bank, are in a licking house, are in an insurance house, are in another financial institution, cheated. So, who's protecting them? Nobody. We have no legal practice in that area. Why? Because we create and conjecture such contractual relations in which in various ways, in dozens, hundreds of ways we now know from practice, the user of financial services is wrong. In the light of this law, you say to the National Bank, since it is the highest financial institution, the monetary institution: "... In accordance with its powers and obligations, it is a supervisory authority in the business of those financial institutions, but also a pillar of the protection of clients of those institutions in their business relations. “ I ask you, this pillar is strong, fragile, in what situation did the National Bank cancel the contract? Against whom has a misdemeanor been committed because of these relationships that hundreds of people can point out in practice, do we know what we're talking about? Who was she up against? Whom did she prosecute, and which bank did she drive out of the market for doing business malfeasance? Almost no one. You'll give us the details. We MPs don't have that information, we read your work reports, but there's no real surveillance. We have found that here; we representatives of the Serbian Radical Party point to these abuses, we suggest insufficient direct control. You say here in the 2009 report -- there were seven direct controls. Look, so much malfeasance, so much abuse, so much unfair business by banks, insurance houses and other financial institutions, and you only had so much. How many criminal charges have you filed? Very little. What's the further problem with this law? In Article 2, when you mention the meaning of certain terms, you give a definition of financial services and you say, "The financial services are banking services, financial lease services and financial contracts". From the point of view of the National Bank of Serbia, that may be important. A year and a few days ago, we passed a Consumer Protection Act that is completely different, I would say, more comprehensive, more cellular, more functional and legally correct, defining financial services. How does the Consumer Protection Act define financial services? Financial services are banking and credit services, insurance and pension insurance services, voluntary pension funds services, investment and payment services. It would not be a problem to define this concept of "financial services" if through the whole law the thread that you have come up with as legislators of this law was consistently implemented. In point 4, by defining certain terms used in this law, you say: “insurance services, or services, of a voluntary pension fund management company. ” No more voluntary pension funds appear, no more insurance companies. That's the problem. Is there an abuse in the insurance houses? There is. Have you legalized them through certain provisions of this law? No, you threw them out. When you agree as legislators, you must use the practice of adopted laws and define certain things. In your case, the problem is not only that you have not consistently implemented the legal definition until the end, but you have not functionally and functionally protected all financial services users from these areas. There are other areas that you also did not include with your bill. What's the problem with this law? In terms of terms under point 9), you say that the user of financial services is a natural person who uses financial services. What about legal people, don't they use financial services? They're using. Why did you turn off your legal faces? How can you in constitutional terms exclude legal persons as financial services users and protect them? Or do you not want to protect your legal faces? Legal entities are also in a very unfavourable position, as are citizens. You have to protect them. What is the fate of credit relations with legal persons? Same as the face of the physical. Furthermore, in the light of this law, you set two goals; one goal is to improve good business practice and a fair relationship with financial services users. In your explanation, you were not consistent, as was the proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. The Proposer of the Consumer Protection Act explains in almost a dozen members what unfair business is, misleading business, failures that deceive consumers, forms of business that are considered misleading business, etc. Everything defined by this law is in practice met with financial services. That is why the Serbian Radical Party's stance that this law is incomplete, incomplete and not functional. A fundamental question arises, such as the practice in the region, in Europe... When we talk about protection, then we talk about consumer protection in general. With one single law, we protect the consumer, regardless of what services they are. When we talk about sanctions, we see how small the penalties for huge violations committed by financial institutions are: in the Consumer Protection Act up to two million and here up to three million. Why would the bank be afraid, why would the insurance company fear this law and all other institutions in the state, not just the National Bank of Serbia? They will pay a fine of a million, two, no more than three, and close it with one contract, one interest account, a taxi bill and a contract deal, they will settle this fine still on the market. The basic problem of the banking system of the Republic of Serbia is the lack of a strategy. The arrival of the five-octobarians lost every thread of what to do strategically in the banking system. The banking system was broken overnight in 2002. Not just four large banks, over 60 - 70 banking institutions that existed at the time were literally driven from the market because they were deprived overnight of work, licenses, etc. What did we get? We got a privatized system, a monopolized system, which today charges the highest interest rates in Europe, the highest fees, the most taxes. If I'm not telling the truth, bring here information that the country has more interest than we do. Take countries in the region – double the interest rate, even in Bosnia and Herzegovina are 30% - 40% less, and we are approximately at the same level of development, with the same economic and financial indicators. Why are interest rates down there? Don't you worry yourself about the fact that even the prime minister of the government in 2008 said at a meeting organised by the United Nations a sentence that is here, but said there that the fees and fees charged in Serbia by financial institutions were mostly in terms of banks, six to seven times higher than in the countries of origin. Previously on National Bank... Mr. Shoskic, you were then in the National Bank Council; you had to use and materialize that sentence, bring it to an end. Do an analysis of why such high fees and taxes are charged and take certain measures. Or are Serbs and the Serbian economy so rich that they can pay with ease? I can't pay for neither citizens, nor businesses, nor this state, nor local self-government, or other financial services users. What about the strategy? We don't have a strategy. We privatized what could be sold on the market; the rest we left to live as it should be. It's mostly banks where the state is one of the shareholders, one of the owners, losers. And not just this year, but all the years ago. What does it seem to solve the question of this capital? Why would that capital be devastated? Why was it destroyed? Why would he be abused by management? So, what did you, in the plan of terms of strategically speaking, see now, the governor for more than half a year, do to resolve the issue of government capital in these banks? Nothing, no proposal; the previous governor didn't do anything either. There was a suggestion that three or four banks were Fusiond, so that we had far larger assets, larger capitals, bigger assets, so we'd get out, etc. Of these mergers, attachments, shut-downs, switchovers, there's nothing. But the capital disappears. They're losers banks. The biggest problem of the Serbian banking system and financial services system is the monopoly of the market. This market is monopolished by foreign bankers and lobbyist circles in the government, the National Bank and other financial institutions. Nothing can be done actively because of lobbyist circles in banks, because they hold money, hold the leverages of the financial system, determine who, where, and how in the managerial sense goes, which position, where they will invest, where they will not invest, whom we will sink, etc. Governor, you're aware of these facts, you're aware that through this monopoly the bank amounts to funds abroad and is laundering funds here. You never said that once. I will read to you the statement by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Miodrag Djindjic, who said about a year and a half ago that about two billion euros in the banking system in the Republic of Serbia are being washed, including the economy. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said two billion euros are being washed through the banking and financial system and the economy! What was done to break such a practice? Who does this and what are the sanctions against those who are malfeasance in the banking system? Nothing, just so far we don't have a banking mob. Why? Because they hold the levers of the entire system. I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia and I say - citizens of Serbia, do not be mistaken, this institution, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is not the highest institution in the country. Most institutions in the country are lobbying, banking and financial circles, they determine everything. We can bring dozens here, hundreds of laws, there's no one to do it on the other side; the control function, the control center is in those circles, they determine everything. The benefits of the state system lie in the financial and banking mafia, it rules the entire system. It's tragic that today we have over-indebted economy, over-indebted citizens, and prosperity in the banking system. The banking system is without loss, except for banks owned by Serbia's majority or minority state. All foreign banks, conditioned by foreign banks, banks where shareholders are foreign persons, do very well, make serious profits and fictitious invoices and fictitious legal and financial transactions transfer funds to parent banks, parent institutions from which they withdraw money, that is clear to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54738	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word was sought by the governor of the National Bank, Dejan Šoškovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54739	Thank you very much. Dear People's Messengers, let me look back at some of the outstretched attitudes. We have had the opportunity to hear the position that this bill does not regulate the comprehensive matter of protecting users of financial services and that it should have been an integral part of the second law, which was passed some time ago, as regards consumer protection. I would like to remind everyone that the Consumer Protection Act actually had the ambition to regulate only one part of this matter that is today in front of us in parliament. Therefore, consumer protection was primarily related to consumer credits. This law has the ambition to regulate much wider matter, therefore, the matter of protecting users of financial services and other types of credit, as well as the issue of the protection of payment card users, the opening of accounts and everything contained in this legislative proposal. In other words, we believe that this approach is more comprehensive and that in a comprehensive way it will regulate this serious matter. The second question was whether we had enough public debate. We, I remind you, have had several conversations on several occasions not only with the Ministry of Trade and Services but also with banks, with financial lenders, with the Association of Banks of Serbia, the Association of Financial Lising Providers, as well as with the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia. So we have received a lot of useful suggestions from these activities and we believe that all those that contribute to the stability of the financial system and to the protection of financial services users have been installed in this bill. The next thesis that has been given is – why do we have this bill today, why has it been so long? I would remind you of something that is clear to all of us as citizens of our country, which is that, during the 1990s, it was impossible to obtain a loan, in these very banks which officially stopped working in early 2002, that these banks did not, in the right sense, fulfil their basic business function on the market. The number one task was: to establish trust in the financial system, therefore, to raise the financial system from a state in which it was not de facto. Without this financial system, there should be no illusion, no word about the possibility of dynamic economic development. So the number one task that the National Bank had was to establish an effective banking system, to establish effective supervisory over banks, not to come to an opportunity that we came to 20 years ago, as we all know, that taxpayers' money had to be hired to cover bank losses. We and today pay that cost; as we know, our citizens receive adequate funds on the basis of so-called "31 May". old foreign savings. I will remind you of one more thing: if I were to say a good part because of the activities of the National Bank of Serbia, through the last financial crisis, which took place in the second half of 2008, the Serbian banking sector passed without direct costs for taxpayers, which we often forget. It was the main task of the National Bank of Serbia over the last ten years. It is true, too, that we have given up getting credit from the bank, which is its basic job, and that we have all forgotten during the 1990s that a bank in this business should make a commercial arrangement with a potential credit user and make potential and profit, but above all satisfy the need of citizens and legal persons for loans. So, over a period of two thousand years, it has been very common for people, because they have not been able to get credit for years, perhaps without enough analysis of all the elements of the contract to come free (provided by the signature of this bond-law relationship established between the financial institution and the individual, the citizen of our country), therefore, that this declaration of free will accept the contractual provisions which violate the long-term rights of the beneficiaries of financial services, regardless of the acceptance of free will is done. It is a bond-law relationship in which the National Bank of Serbia, as you know, is not a contractual party; there is no legal basis for it to intervene directly, to initiate litigation, or to be responsible for implementing the provisions of bond-law relations in our country. However, during this transition period, we have established that the business practice of banks of those years has taken place in a way that has often abused the lower level of information and guidance of our citizens in all, very often complex, the provisions of these bond-law relations that have been established between the banks and the citizens of our country. Hence, the belief that not all that has been done so far has matured, and I will remind you that we have also brought acts to which we have referred banks to certain behaviour, that we have also been active in the mediation between banks and citizens, because we have noticed that our country's citizens have often, in a desire to get credit as soon as possible, signed commitments on their side that may have exceeded their real capacities. We have finally realized that the most comprehensive, in terms of protecting the interests of our citizens, is that this matter is regulated by a special law and hence this bill is before you today in Parliament. When we talk about the fact that the National Bank of Serbia has not sufficiently addressed certain issues, I would remind you that in our country, which we all want together to believe that there are clearly defined powers of individual authorities, there is also the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which deals with this business. We are working intensively with that right and we are doing everything in our power to prevent the activities that were spoken of here, which are not quite accurate in the context of today's legislative proposal. I would also remind you, when we talk about whether this law regulates the rights of users of financial services in other domains – users of voluntary pension funds were mentioned above – that in Article 43(3). The proposal for this law states: ‘After complaints from the users of insurance and service services, the NBS voluntary pension funds are managed in accordance with the specific laws governing the business of the providers of these services. “ In other words, it has already been those special laws regulated, a good deed, and this matter. Finally, it was a question of why we shut down legal faces. It is legitimate to ask this question, but it does not need to be settled with the mind of the fact that the NBS does not have the authority to protect the interests of legal persons. This is not part of European directives, nor normal world practice, to protect the interests of private legal entities. It comes from the assumption that each legal person has the capacity and is able to assess the risks and jobs in which he enters and that he has the opportunity to hire appropriate professionals, lawyers, financial experts who will be obliged to protect the interests of their businesses when entering bond-law relations with banks. We perform here according to world practice, which is to protect citizens, who don't always have to know all the details and finesse of the financial transactions they come into. When we talk about the fines provided for by this bill, I would remind you that the fines proposed are intended for each individual contract. In other words, it is enough for one contract to be so constructed as to challenge the appropriate fine that we are talking about; when we consider this, potential penalties are significantly greater and more effective in protecting the interests of citizens, i.e. the users of financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54740	People's Ambassador Milorad Buh, two minutes, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54741	When we talk about business in the 1990s, it must be realized that there was no real and complete banking system, and we know the reasons for that. Don't let us go back to the '90s. We are now talking about the protection of users because of the unconscious business of banks, especially those that came to the market after 2002. We're talking about their unconscious business. You probably don't have any contact with those banks' committees, like we do, like every citizen does. I ask you, what is this propaganda of the European Union's objectives and principles if fraud is the result of capital gains? It's a fact in those relationships. Is this a picture of the European Union – take, steal, steal, cheat? That's why you're passing this law. If it wasn't for the mass of such situations you wouldn't have passed this law, you'd have let them do what they do in practice. Legal persons must be protected because they are exposed to the same principles of unconscious business and anti-legal relations, same as natural persons. The fact that it is not in the EU directives does not oblige you. Install in legal provisions the protection of legal persons. That's what the SRS is asking of you. Protect them, because they are exposed to huge fraud actions in these relations with banks; too much with banks, but also with insurance houses, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54742	Two minutes. Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54743	I want to welcome all the MPs and governors. I'm glad you're here today and you're out with a law that's extremely late; now it turns out that we're giving an infusion to someone who's dying, we're giving him an infusion, and he's dying, and it could have been a lot sooner to prevent it. Mr. Governor, you're the head of an institution that's been floating for years without any purpose, and without any obligation to report to anyone, it was completely autonomous and did literally what it wanted. I expected many of the problems that have arisen there to be triggered by your arrival, but you did not have the strength to touch these problems and to start them, to get rid of them, but, of course, you continue a relaxed policy of giving hope, willing to the people – here, we are passing the law, it will be better. What we listen to every day – it'll be better, it'll be great in a few days, here, at the end of the year, everything will be great, and the beginning of next year will be fantastic. That's what we've been hearing for years. What's the problem? The problem is, in the period you've been talking about since the 1990s, we've had a lot of sanctions. Much of the money was taken out of the country to make the state work. It was saving citizens. The money's been thrown out, and you know how through which banks people, etc., I'm not telling you that now. The money was thrown out of the country to buy oil on black, finance a lot of things, and maintain the vital functions of the state. In 2000 comes the democratic government. It is now said that we are becoming open to the world, there is no sanctions, there is a better time and hope for investment, the European Union, the funds are returning, what has been robbed will return to the people, etc. There's a catch now. The then government, Mr. Shoskic, has authorized me, I was the head of the Cypriot money team. We came to Cyprus, your representative of the National Bank, representative of Serbia's MUP, and I was the head of the team, and we were received by the president of Cyprus, who helped us with the hands and feet to get that money back to Serbia. It was 11 billion marks. Mrs. Borka Vukic accepted us there, helped technically everything she needed, but there were Serbian tycoons in the same hotel where we, who were in a hurry, were cleaning bills, working on it intensively. We were told to bring all these papers and hand over here to the first man of the National Bank and the first man of the government. We did it. What happened? A "dil" was made, and the money was gone. That money is no longer mentioned. The governor then immediately went to Cyprus, made a deal with the future president, who won the election, which was Mr Milosevic's lawyer, and the money was gone. Your National Bank expert was kicked out of the bank because he wouldn't shut up. Then, Justice Minister Vladan Batic filed a criminal report based on all the documents he saw, because I showed him before I handed in, and Vuk Obradovic, who was in charge of the then-Governmental Government of the Republic of Serbia to fight corruption. That's when my troubles begin. All the witnesses in that lawsuit, standing in someone's drawer, and I have it in the original, I can give it to you, they're dead; I'm the only one still alive. The late Bajja, who loaded the money, drove there, packed at the airport, Vlahovic, who was helping, his best man. The late Zika Petrovic, who was JAT's director, who was piloting, carried money. The deceased Borka, who received the money, took it to the bank, etc. The late Vladan Batic, who saw the papers, filed a criminal report, etc. The deceased was Vuk Obradovic, who was in charge of corruption as deputy prime minister. Of course, the only one that got away with it became the director of UBPOK. And he kept his mouth shut. He was after me the most because we didn't fit in with the two of us in that problem that came up. Is it possible for you as governor to continue to stand in a drawer one criminal record of eleven billion marks? Is it possible, Mr. Governor, that you're talking about our state-funded banks? You did finance them because they maintained large systems. "Yugobanka", the founder of "Zagrebačka Banka", which was a role of about two billion euros... In the privatisation of the "Zagrebska Banka", the government of the Republic of Croatia and the "Zagrebačka Banka" addressed Serbia and sought what it would do with Serbia's role in "Zagrebačka Banka". I have the original memo and I can give it to you, Mr. Governor. Whenever you want, call me to get your papers. The then deputy defence attorney of the Republic of Serbia wrote that we are not interested in the funds in "Zagrebska Banka". Do you know that the man wrote and signed? That money was transferred to private encrypted accounts. I think I have those codes and all that, I can give it to you. What's going on? There's a robbery that's been legalized, money being thrown out and into private accounts. Now we've got big financial powers who say they're taking credit hours to work. Did they bring that money back through these foreign banks, as participants with their capital in them, and put out our domestic banks? That's what you need to determine. There's something else I'd like to ask you. The Western cash registers from Germany have arrived at the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. These funds have been laundered at the National Bank. There is a criminal report, I handed over the copy to Minister Malovic. She's got a copy of the criminal report, which is in the drawer. It was spent on a politician's campaign, washed through the Segedin Bank. There's everything in the criminal report, it says. Now the National Bank is silent, not responding. The Germans are picking up. The other day, their police were here, I don't know what they're called, but they were investigating what she gave the Bundesque cash register and what was silent about the National Bank and what was put under the rug. These are all the big problems that have arisen, and that's why the state has been robbed, which is why our banks have been destroyed. What is the bankruptcy mass "Beobanke", "Jugobanke", "Investbanke" now rented? I remember it was 203,000,000 euros in time. It's being paid off by these tycoons and these banks and taken from it by large commissions. We're talking about money laundering. The state washed the Cypriot money and returned to regular flows, in privatisation in Serbia. Mr. Shoskic, is money laundering when the "Metals Bank" funds from Novi Sad, which is Saric's bank, are washed? Who washed that money? The government of Vojvodina. How did she wash them? She bought Metals Bank, now it's her bank. Where did "Metals Bank", where some people were arrested, be "Vojvodine Development Bank"? There are a number of other problems that have occurred during this period. We're ruined. Our economy, we destroy our businessmen more and more every day; we destroy exporters by artificially maintaining the euro course; we destroy employment because foreigners who come are stimulated by 5,000 - 10,000 euros, and we dig ours as soon as they open the company. Do you know that if you open a company for two years, you can't get credit because you're a new company? That's what every bank says today. How's a young businessman gonna get going? From what? Do you believe that we are stimulating "Gorenje" with 5,000 - 10,000 euros to come, to open, to create white technique, and "Freedom" from Cačka, who was a pioneer in Southeast Europe and the largest exporter to the Russian market, we destroyed because she needed one loan, from the bombing, and that loan was very small, to be launched. I was there on the board of directors, and I know it well. No credit, and we're bringing in a new one, and we're giving him huge funds per employee. Is that the right policy? Is it in your opinion that the right policy is this all that's going on with the Fiat, where it's thrown into a bottomless hole, and no one has ever filed a report here at which stage it is and where it's come from? Will there be those 200,000 cars that were promised in 2010? Where are we going in Serbia with 200,000 cars, if our maximum capacity and purchasing power are 25,000 cars a year? It's said to go to the Russian market. I remember the excellent recent visit to Putin, which said there was nothing of it, that they made a Fiat factory in Russia, which produces 300,000 cars, and that they have no reason to import cars. The man said nicely that the imports into Russia couldn't. That's what Shoegu said more than once. What about 200,000 cars, if we ever make 200,000 cars? Is that a disaster for the Serbian economy? How are we going to get out of these problems that Serbia is going to have? Therefore, I would like you as the new governor to start working with this parliament and sometimes hear the report here once a year from the National Bank of Serbia and hear what the situation is. We've never received information about the foreign reserve situation, where they are located, in which banks and under what conditions. It's a taboo topic and no one was allowed to ask. Are you able to initiate a procedure to get the funds that have been transferred from Serbia back, to see where they are, how they are placed, to whom and in what way? We can help you and give you a lot of paperwork, which some people had insight into, but they didn't want to do. These banks that are now here, our domestic banks, they're party banks. You know what party holds the Commercial Bank. In the Commercial Bank, whatever you want to do, do you know how much the director asks there? As asked by Grandma Simana, let her there, from some village. So is that director. Someone turns him around and says, "Give it to Ziki." So he got a loan, Mr. Governor, a Lale Sekulić who bought drugs from China in containers, packed and sold to Tomica Milosavljevic. When one of your predecessors turns it, he says – let Lalet go of 500 million. Lale takes five hundred million and goes home, no guarantee he'll come back. Now Lale's got brain amnesia, he's due, he's resigned as mayor, he's just a gourmet, he's swimming in the pool, he's enjoying himself, he's strutting around town, and the businessmen at Chachanska Banka are squirming because he took their money. The money went to someone's phone call. And other banks have been robbed by over a billion, in a similar way, because the phone call of the man who held all the finances before you in this country is enough and no one has ever been allowed to say anything, who still holds all the finances today. You're just a figure there. That's what I guarantee you. The financials are in someone else's hands. I want you to be a real governor, that's what I expect from you. It would be a lot of my heart to feel that it's changed, but it hasn't yet. I'm listening now, in some big-water campaigns, people show up and say, "What do you need?" Three hundred million? He's coming tomorrow, you get it. I ask you primarily as a financial expert -- how do you now use the funds of these ministries that have been shut down, divided, without budget rebalances? Who's the one who turns the vault around and tells who to give the money to? Who's in the NIP? There's no minister, there's no seal, there's nothing, what's going on? How did you in mining and energy, where big investments, share that pile of money? How much did it belong to? Mr. Shoskic, how can the state function for two months without budget rebalances? It is true that there is a budget reserve and it is true that it can go over the budget reserve, but it can do up to 4% of the budget. What are we here for? We passed a budget bill that breaks every day. Every day he breaks. Who's the one who turns on the phone and says? Please don't explain to me now that you can spend funds without budget rebalances, if the ministries are reduced and the government is reconstructed. Why don't you go into budget rebalance? Because you're fishing in a blurry fish. There's no money. When someone comes, you say -- we don't have budget rebalances. I'm sorry, it's gonna be this, it's gonna be that. Of course, then it all works hazy, and this group from the ruling coalition will, when it comes to parliament, retroactively accept everything as well as the previous years. They will say, "It is fine, what you have spent, and good luck to you; you are all honest people, and all is well; we will vote it all; everything will be right." So, you've got a lot of work to do. I have not noticed that something has changed better than these problems, which are extremely important. I didn't notice anything had changed in banks. What happened to "Delta", "Intesz", so the money was paid to Cyprus...? Whose "Delta" was it? Where was Delta headquarters? Where is the seat of "Inthesis"? Who's the boss of "Inthesis" now? What is Mr. Miskovic's role in the whole story? It's taboo theme. What kind of shareholder is he in "Inthesis"? What's going on here? Where do you keep your government deposits? These banks, of course, are making progress. Why doesn't Serbia have its own development bank, the Serbian Development Bank? Why are our public companies, and the daily fees are huge, having a "Postal Savings Savings" through which pensions, which are made up of PTT, directly and in the composition "Telecoma", and "Telecom" and PTT hold the money at "Inthesis"... What exactly is this about? I know I've asked that question to the government more than once. How can a public company that has a bank in its system that has the most powerful clientele to hold deposits with a foreign bank? What kind of government policy is this and state policy? Why do you do that? So there's a lot of problems. I hope you're a young man, a promising and energyful man, that you'll help resolve it. I'm glad that one of the frogs, which was in an institution called, unfortunately, the National Bank and for years was held under a party patronage, has now broken down, but you now need to put it on your feet and lay sound foundations of Serbian banking. I wish you a lot of success in that. You'll have support and positions and opposition, but make that little move. I've listed some applications. I want to know what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54744	The word has a folk emissary, Branka Ljiljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54745	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Mr. Shoskic, members of the National Bank of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of a law on the protection of financial services users, which regulates an important area in the financial system. Since the area is very important for Serbian citizens and not covered by the Consumer Protection Act, the need to regulate this law has simply been imposed. This law regulates the relationship in the use of banking services, financial leases and financial settlements. The National Bank of Serbia, as a proposing, has a fundamental role to achieve and maintain price stability, but it is also obliged to contribute to the preservation and strengthening of financial system stability. Its legal obligation is to control and oversee the work of banks, insurance companies, giving financial leases, companies for managing voluntary pension funds. The aim of the law is to protect the client from unilateral changes in contractual obligations and to explicitly regulate the mandatory elements of the contract, then the rights, or obligations of financial service providers, as well as the rights that the client has towards them. The protection of financial services users can be achieved if both parties have the necessary information. Only someone who has all relevant information can make a decision on the use of financial services, which are mostly longer. Perhaps one request to the National Bank, which otherwise has the obligation of supervision and control, to make sure, I think that information is a very important element of any work, and also of the one where people are in charge to meet some of their own, perhaps even basic, needs. Mandatory elements of the contract are defined, the consequences of changes in the elements of the contract, the consequences of the debt delay and the rights that the financial service provider must respect to protect the economic interests of consumers. Information of financial service users shall be arranged at the pre-contractual stage. The service provider must be precise and clear to indicate which costs fall on the user's burden. It is already said in the presentation of Mr. Šoškovic to prohibit the use of expressions to which credit, i.e. licking is meant to be free or otherwise, if its approval is conditioned by the conclusion of another contract or whatever is the additional cost and creates an obligation for the client, i.e. the user. The service provider has an obligation to offer its services first in dinars. One part of the law refers to user notification during the duration of the contractual relationship. It is prescribed that the service provider has an obligation to obtain written consent to change the mandatory element of the contract, to notify the user of changes to the agreed rate of interest before its application, with the payment plan, that it gives notice of the debt balance at least once a year. It is also provided that for credit indexed in foreign currency, the user has the right to pay the credit according to the same type of course applied when granting the loan or the lease. For the purpose of obtaining credit, the same method of calculating interest shall be applied as for the amount of the loan granted. The law also covers financial contracts offered by traders, since consumer lending is done by other legal entities, not only by banks. In advertising and offering financial contracts, the trader must specify all data on goods and services, the cash price, as well as the amount paid in advance, beyond participation. If a credit is issued for the purchase of goods, all benefits that the user pays cash must be specified. The difference between the price for buying on a delayed basis and cash must be shown on a percentage basis. These are just some members of the law on the protection of users of financial services. You can get the impression that the law is properly and at the right time informing the users. As I pointed out, good information rights contribute to a quality decision. The law establishes a fair relationship between financial services users and donors, which means that good business practice is established in this area. The user should take care of his/her interests and inform the service provider as soon as possible of any changes that take place within the agreed time limit so as to resolve disagreements on mutual satisfaction. Finally, I would add that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 90, protects consumers, and specifically prohibits actions aimed at health, safety and consumer privacy, as well as any dishonest market activities. The ZES parliamentary group will support this law, and I call on other parliamentary groups to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54746	Six minutes and twenty-five seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, DSS, SRS, SPS - JS and ZES. The word has the first registered MP to report for the word in the principle of the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services, MP Ivan Andric, followed by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54747	Thank you. I would like first to say a few words about what we will be able to agree on with the legislators. The first and basic thing that, I think, none of the MPs, were an opposition MP or member of the ruling majority, is not going to argue, it is that such a law is necessary and that now we can only talk about its content. As for the LDP parliamentary group, we think the bill is a big enough step and should be supported, however, we also have several objections. First of all, there is a fundamental political concern that we can get from a few conclusions. First, what we are very pleased with is that the adoption of this law may be the most important confirmation of the necessity of the European integration process. It is very clear that if political processes are observed, that, we can call it the lobbys of banks or lobbys of some influential people in Serbia, there was a desire to avoid passing such laws and to keep everything on the scales of the National Bank, many of which are not binding. It is clear that on the way to Serbia's Europeanisation, this has become one of the conditions that will allow citizens to at least do more of the necessary jobs, as is done in the EU's civilised countries, but it also raises the political issue of responsibility for how it is possible only in 2011 that Serbia first passed such a law. So what kind of assessment and analysis was needed to understand only after eleven years of democratic change in Serbia that it is necessary to pass a law that should protect citizens in their relationship with banks? From all the arguments presented here, it is clear that this inequality exists between people who take credit and those who give credit, and only in 2011, we are taking steps to enable our citizens to live more peacefully. However, a much more serious complaint, which may not be about this law but about general state policy and the policies of the National Bank, concerns the country's normalisation process. I think they're slowly choosing those problems that are easier to solve, and they're being left behind. It is not a basic problem for Serbian citizens, or for Serbia's economy, it may be better to say, in their relationship with banks, that they were not aware of something in this relationship and that the interest rate was changing without their wish. They're problems, but they're not basic. I would point out, since we don't have much time, at least two or three basic problems. The first is, therefore, in a normal business environment, in a normal market economy if someone wants to do something and there is not enough money for it, he will borrow money for it, and if he is able, if he is lucky, if he is penetrated, he will be able to repay that money from his activities. A big question is whether such conditions exist in Serbia. counterpart Velimir Ilic just said that a new company or entrepreneur, if we want to say so, has no chance of getting credit for his activity. He's got a formal procedure, so there's some procedure, but he can't do any of those tasks that the bank wants to meet; he or she, I apologize to Gordani Comic. So someone who wants to start performing some business activity can only get credit from the state. Whether it will get it from the state, it will be decided by political parties and its political membership will be influenced by much more than the justification of a business plan or a project it wants to invest in. Of course, the price of this money is very simple: it is 10%, 12% or 13% in Serbia, plus a six-month, three-month, nine-month euribor. Today it's even cheaper, at a normal time the price of that money is 18-19%. What is this legal activity that someone starts to earn so much money that they suffer so much credit recovery? It is very clear that since 2003 or 2004, state policy has been colored with this fear of borrowing people and that the National Bank of Serbia has done everything it could to date, within some normal limits, to prevent people from being in debt. Justified or not, it doesn't matter that much. Of course, we cannot argue that in a period of crisis it is justified, but it is also the biggest obstacle to the launch of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the biggest distraction. Every one of us has a friend, someone who has some sad story with a bank where, whatever idea it is, he couldn't get support for something like that. I think that in Serbia money is taken from greeners often cheaper than money that can be raised in a bank. You must know, you're doing this job, that the only thing banks aren't asking for is blood groups, but not the one who's taking the loan, his blood type is looking for, but the neighborhood. So, security that concerns 30% or 40% of deposits, first, second, third-row mortgages, stockpiles, company owner bonds, I don't know what's needed. It just makes us give it up. So our proposal is to try to find some form in your work with banks that will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to be launched because that is the only way to solve unemployment. As many energy ministers as there are going to be, and as the campaign approaches, to open up everything and everything on TV, you know that even in developed EU countries, in the United States, the vast majority of the population is employed in so-called. Small and medium-sized enterprises, so there are different definitions somewhere, but let me say in companies that have up to 100 employees. Eight such companies per hour are shut down in Serbia! That was the data from last year. Does that mean those people who own them aren't capable enough? I don't think so, I don't think they have a chance in Serbia for their business if they want to do business in a normal and legal way. I'm not talking about criminals and this other one. Another thing that fell for my eye (to leave time for my colleague), it's a matter of course. You have defined it here by defining the type of course that will apply in the contract being made. If most loans are taken on the basis of the euro or the Swiss franc and returned, and is, of course, given in dinar equivalent, my question is does the NBS consider it a safe business if the bank can abuse the type of course and change? As we know, according to the contract you sign with the bank, all wars are due on a date. It's very clear that every passerby on the street can see the banks changing course when that date approaches, so you'll always get the money more unfavourable than it actually is, and you'll get it back more unfavourable for you than the course is. There, on interest, which is too large, will be added another part, which will sometimes go to some banks, and up to 10% compared to the value of the loan. Rare are the banks that will give you (I don't know any, but many things I don't know, so I can't claim that they don't exist) middle course, or sales or any NBS course. In more than 90% of the cases will be the course of that bank. My second question, which was very important in the talks in which we were preparing: does the NBS expect the money that banks will pay for this bill to be additionally collected because of some new commitments that will be imposed on banks, particularly in the light of the client's notification of the various things this law will force them to do? If they will, because I think banks expect it, and that the cost of this will result in a spill on users rather than reduce their profits, how will the NBS thus be set up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54748	The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54749	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a brief look at some of the allegations we've heard. The first question is to apply an appropriate course when granting and paying obligations on the basis of an approved loan. You noticed that in the proposal for this law, the applicant's intensity was to establish a proper fair relationship between banks and financial service users, primarily citizens. We've also discussed other options and I think we'd be open to options that would prevent potential abuses in terms of which course might be applied. Perhaps we should seriously consider this possibility to accept, in the form of an amendment, a solution that would be more turned around, for example, by a middle-rate NBS for all transactions and by removing such dilemmas. I agree that's one very valid argument you mentioned. Thank you for pointing to him. The question was whether interest rates would rise as a consequence of this law. Our expectation is that this law for one of the consequences will have, among other things, that citizens will be able to turn more easily to other financial institutions unless they are satisfied with the quality and price of services of existing financial institutions with which they are in a business relationship. Hence, this increase in competition in the market should, by definition, prevent spillover into some additional costs or to rise prices, whether it is an interest rate, whether the costs of certain bank services are concerned. In other words, we believe that through the rise of competition, the overrun over the costs paid by financial service users will be limited or even, hopefully, some of these parameters will go down. As for the question of granting loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, I will remind everyone that the NBS does not have the authority to lend legal persons, that we can only monitor the situation of macroeconomic stability of the system, whether over-indebted citizens and legal persons in our country and in this domain we control potential risks that can arise for the stability of the financial system through regulation. Credit approval is in the bank's jurisdiction. In other words, the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia does not directly prevent the bank from granting credit, practically, to anyone, only raises the question of the degree of risk that is thus taken over as the bank's balance sheet positions as a financial institution over whose solid business, in addition, the NBS as a supervisor. However, I will remind you of one more thing, which is that when a bank credit is approved, they often have a conservative policy not because of NBS, but because of their shareholders, because they want, which is normal in the market economy, to maximise the rate of yield per unit of risk taken. I would say that there should be a basic reason why credits are often granted under more favourable conditions and companies that are not able to provide their balance indicators with a higher level of creditor confidence, where there is often a case and that new credits should be adequately elaborated. The National Bank of Serbia has seen this problem and has already worked, and we want to step up our activity in this area so that for free, we are doing what we are doing, we are making an effort to educate people as they are being created, what should be paid particular attention to, what are the elements of the contracts that are a legitimate place to negotiate with the bank and where it is possible to achieve a more favourable status than the bank. In connection with what was just said, that the National Bank of Serbia in its business is not present enough in parliament, regardless of what comes out of the context of today's debate on this bill, I would remind myself that the work of the NBS is precisely regulated by law, that we have direct communication with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that by 15 December we are delivering a monetary policy programme, that by 30 June we have an annual report on monetary policy, that by 30 September we have a semi-annual report on monetary policy and that by 30 June we submit an annual report to the National Assembly on our work and the results of our work. In other words, this activity is defined by law, it exists, we certainly do not run away from it, and we are not closed in any way to give direct answers to certain questions. I would remind the honourable MPs that the National Bank of Serbia, as we know, is not by its definition and jurisdiction of the investigating authority. If certain honourable Members have adequate knowledge that raises reasonable doubt about the initiation of investigative procedures, they should be informed of the relevant state authorities. The National Bank of Serbia will certainly put its documentation on the context of these procedures to those competent state authorities, in the event of investigative operations. In terms of foreign reserves, so as not to stay in the situation that we did not want to give an answer, although outside today's debate, the National Bank of Serbia is actually one of the most open central banks in terms of whether or not it intervenes from the country's foreign reserves, in which amount, how much it is spent on these purposes over a certain period of time. We give regular reports about this, and that is something that far exceeds the standards of transparency of many other central banks. Where foreign reserves are placed, it is, as we know, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia defined as a business secret, but certainly the National Bank Council, that is, under the new law, the Board of Governors has jurisdiction to have insight into these issues; it is, as we know, a body that is directly voted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54750	National MP Ivan Andric, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54751	First of all, thanks for the answer. I think it would be a big step if we could somehow all take this amendment together that's about the best solution to the national bank's middle course. When I speak my intention is not to make banks an enemy, I think that time has passed, and that some anger is directed towards banks, but it's very clear that by protecting the interest of their shareholders, it sounds quite ambitious, essentially foreign banks abroad, are looking at profits. It's about creating, I think your role can also be symbolic... It's clear to me that we're afraid of borrowing, especially because of everything that we've been through and because of the debts that, however much someone wants to defend in the 1990s, we have to go back, but the bottom line is that we have to think about the future that's coming. I ask you somewhere to find a place for the National Bank to help the banks realize that the atmosphere in Serbia is better, not to invest in cash loans (naturally, who account or has a digitron, realizes how unfavourable they are), but that it is better to invest money in something that will produce any new value. Those obligations... I know it's none of your business, but this is where we have to say it. Someone who starts his job, if he needs it, that's the first condition, that he has a three-year balance, there's nothing, he'll be rejected by that reference officer at the bank entrance. So we should try it together, and parliament is at your disposal, to create an atmosphere in which it won't be impossible for only the authority or credibility of that person, plus the idea and the project that he has, depending on whether he can start a new job, which will employ one, two, five people and make it possible to create some new value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54752	Thank you. Before I give my word to MPs Milic Vojić Markovic of the DSS Parliamentary Group, by applying Article 27, to ensure that all MPs get the rights that have been given to them by the Rules of Procedure to the information given to them by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Donka Banovic and the president of the parliamentary group Branko Ruzic, we have the names of two MPs who are not on the list: the first MP, Milan Dimitrijevic, has not been put in place because of his previous obligations, whether or not the MP Dejan Radenkovic. Since Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure make it clear that the names of MPs must be handed over before the opening of a principled search, believing that the way of communication between the authorised representatives and the president of the parliamentary clubs and the general interest is such that by applying Article 27, I would ask the National Assembly to recognise that the word will also be received by the MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Dejan Radenkovic, in order at the end of the list. Please appreciate that. People's MPs from other parliamentary groups claim that such a request was not respected. No, this is the first request that's been made. I hope we can work things out together, taking care of the order in the National Assembly together, and in any case. So, MP Milica Vojic Markovic, then MP Dejan Mirovic. Just to look into the eyes of the other opposition MPs, they insist on it, and you go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54753	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Shoskic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although this is a very attractive subject, I do not see much interest, unfortunately. I think it's time for me to say right away that the Democratic Party of Serbia is not against the adoption of this law at all, but what we object to the proposer is that the adoption of this law is late, practically, eight months late. It was supposed to be, and so it appeared in the first integrated version of the Consumer Protection Act, part of the law. From what the governor was saying here today in the opening statement, it is quite clear that he is in fact an integral part of the Consumer Protection Act, and as such he had to help Serbian citizens regulate relations with banks and financial institutions eight months ago. I have to remind the public, because I think it is very important, over two years, how much the Ministry of Trade held a public debate on this consumer protection law, the most important and the latest part was actually the story of regulating the relationship between banks and financial institutions and consumers, Serbian citizens on the other hand, i.e. the regulation of consumer credits. Since there was no regulation that regulated these relations in the area of consumer rights, in the areas of financial services, relations with banks and financial institutions and the question of consumer credit conditions in Serbia, it was very important for such a regulation to come before the National Assembly. All I can say is, it's a good thing he's here today in front of us. At that time, eight months ago, at the request of the National Bank of Serbia, which caused the surprise of our MPs, but also of Serbian citizens, practically this part was excluded from the Consumer Protection Act. Thus, the Serbian government left Serbian citizens practically at the mercy of banks for eight months, as banks did what they did not do in the countries from which they came to Serbia. On the other hand, by abandoning the European directive, Serbian citizens did not have the same level of protection as EU and European citizens in general when it comes to buying goods on delayed payments, granting cash loans, in the case of related loans when banks, consumers and traders appear in the chain. In addition, banks had one more year to practically change credit terms, as they had worked until then. One who monitors the media noticed that these days, the daily newspaper is full of ads from banks that sell the property of Serbian citizens who were forced to be in charge, to raise loans (I will explain later why they were forced) and could not pay off credit wars. The banks started, of course under the Mortgage Act, that process also began to sell the property of consumers, i.e. customers. That way, according to the latest data, between 1,000 and 3,000 mortgages were activated. Why is there such a big range of what I'm talking about? It's simply because the authorities have no record of this, and the banks are very reluctant to talk about this, so this data is what it is. So between 1,000 and 3,000 mortgages have been raised. Bankers, of course, say it is not worrying and that around 20% of it refers to citizens individually. Or, about, when we turn it into numbers, 600 Serbian citizens are practically now in a position to lose a roof over their heads. If you look at a site where banks advertise the sale of houses, apartments, land, business space, we can notice another very interesting thing. Last year, for example, there were only 30 such ads. Today, on today, it's quite an increase in number, it's over 200. Now that I mention why citizens are forced to raise loans, and the economy also, the firm, I have to take advantage of what the governor is here today and say that the National Bank, by law, needs to take care of inflation. It's very important to say something about it. Inflation in Serbia was increased in March by 2.6% compared to February, with a 5.5% increase compared to December. Martov prices rose 14.1% compared to March last year. The highest price increase has been recorded, in a very high place, in food and non-alcoholic beverages - 5.6% and domestic chemistry collection is announced. As I have seen, there is again an increase in the price of public services, let's say the phone. These data are data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, because here I have opponents who always say that I say it very casually. I have to read Mr. Šoškovic's comment: "It is far above what the central bank considers acceptable and enters the category of unfavourable scenarios. “ He further warns the government that it has to take care of price stability. Furthermore, IMF experts, the same ones who introduced us and Serbian citizens to the data that during the government's mandate (which otherwise won the elections in opening 200,000 jobs) lost 440,000 people, and EU experts said in separate reports that in 2010, with such an incompetent government, with an inflation of about 10.3%, Serbia was a recordr in the region. So much for that and for the statements of our irresponsible politicians that they've managed well in the crisis and that we as a state have been very well compared to other countries. This if we were a recordr in the region is a very significant piece of information, as well as the fact that we have the lowest salary in Europe. That's why we're forced to be in charge. I must say that the unemployment rate in Serbia is, unfortunately, twice the European average. Data for October 2010 (probably changed since it has been eight months) say our unemployment rate is 19.2%. Let's just compare Germany to 6.2. And from that, of course, it follows that the salaries of those rare people who work and receive salaries for it, because in this country there is a large category of those who do not receive wages and work, they have lost the battle with prices. The average March salary is 2% lower than February. When we compare it to the pay in March last year, by 6% it's lower. If we compare it to March 2008, when Vojislav Kostunica left power, it is lower by 100 euros. And, in Serbia, millions of people live on the border or below the poverty line. It's a framework in which we pass this law that is eight months late. Since the media says that certain banks have become very angry with certain provisions of this law, which at first look at them as being in favour of citizens and protecting consumer rights, I must say that banks are announcing that they will abolish certain types of credit and that some of these loans will accumulate. First of all, they mean credit cards and money loans with fixed interest rates. It is now very interesting to follow the amendments that are coming here, especially amendments by MPs from the ruling parties, as what happens most often in these amendments is what happens between the government and the MPs, that is, that things are being ironed and the banks are calmed down. Such amendments have already come from the Government before us, so consumers will actually have great rights, but only on paper. Citizens will feel very quickly about their skin what it looks like to apply these laws, because when the bill was passed, there was not much agreement between banks and the National Bank, at least it seems that according to what the media reported from the Association of Banks of Serbia, according to some representatives of the banks. It would be good to get information from the governor whether it was, and he said in his announcement that there were contacts, that things had agreed, that they had agreed on what the bill would look like. We don't see that that's what it's going to look like because the media is reporting differently. I have to ask the governor to give us a little comment and that guidance that citizens can be in debt of 80% of their own income, which is a great amount of money. It's just amazing that someone lets citizens live with 20% of their own income, which I've already told them about. It is the right way for me to push Serbian citizens into debt slavery. To charge up to 80% of your salary in advance, it's a very large figure and I simply can't believe that, except for some ministers who bought apartments at a hectare, someone in Serbia can enter such investments. Then, the controversial provision for us from the DSS is that the law will be applied retroactively. However you interpret that it does not mean retroactively, the lawyers interpret that it is a retroactive application of the law. It is impossible and every court will bring down such a provision. I think it's very strange that twelve million contracts between banks and clients can be applied retroactively. I'd like to get an explanation of how you imagined it. So, I'm afraid that behind this populist written law... The amendments will show, and one part of the government's amendment already shows, that the government has changed its mind and that the law is quite free of you, if I may say so, it's actually too much for the benefit of the citizens, and the government doesn't like it. It seems to me that such an application, even if it has been in six months (you have announced that this law will come to life in six months), will actually represent uncertainty in the system and that citizens will indeed have problems with banks, which announce more rigorous conditions for lending and credit cards, and in particular I mean the economy. And, as Mr. Andric said, people who are just starting to live with their companies on the market will practically not stand a chance this way. I don't think that's going to do the consumer any good. Of course, I also resent that the application has been delayed for six months. We waited eight months for it to be passed in relation to this basic law, and another six months to apply, that's fourteen months, more than a year. Indeed, then there is no point in talking about something urgent that we must change in the state of Serbia if you have so much time to delay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54754	Eleven minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54755	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened very carefully to the governor and his presentation for over thirty minutes and this exposure has convinced us that the conclusion that we have made after careful reading of the bill is absolutely correct. We think that the intention that existed in the adoption of this bill, which is likely to be passed, is good and that this law is necessary, however, the governor himself mentioned one of the key members, or a key member of this law, which is Article 54. So it's a dispute we've been present in public for a long time -- is it possible retroactivity, what is this retroactivity, will it be partial, will it be complete, will it endanger legal certainty, as the governor said? We believe that the governor, undoubtedly, is an expert man, can be said to be the most professional of all governors so far, especially with regard to Jelasic. Because it's known that you're a professor at the Faculty of Economics. In that sense, it should go further and introduce complete retroactivity, because retroactivity, from a legal point of view, is introduced when it is favourable to those affected by the members of the law. This law, as far as we know, applies to consumers, not banks. In that sense, Governor, we think that you should have shown even more principledness, consistency and avoid the illusion, it's my personal impression that the real governor in this country is Mr. Dugalic. He, you must know it, and the Vice Governor knows it, so fiercely fought against this law and so unprincipledly performed as the Secretary of the Banks' Association that it made a painful impression both in the professional and in the general public. Therefore, if he was against this retroactivity which, in our opinion, is in line with legal certainty, as regards those people to whom this law applies, you should be consistent in Article 54 and apply these provisions only partially to all twelve million contracts. Why do we think that? Today we had a chance to host the Fides people here. Look at what their prime minister is doing, see what courage he is struggling with, and what courage the law applies, which is a fair law in social, economic and any other sense, see how he deals with the devastating attitudes of the IMF in principle. You certainly know, as an expert, as a professor, that, least of all, those formulations from the letter of intent signed by Governor Jelasic, your predecessor, are not good, especially from the letter of intent of 3 December 2009, where it is literally said that "the remaining participation of Serbian banks on our market should be liquidated". Therefore, your formulation that among the objectives of this law, among other things, and the growth of competition is simply not true. There's a monopoly of banks in Western Europe on this market. We can talk about Italian banks, Austrian banks. You must know that, and you know that the percentage of these banks' presence is over 70% on the Serbian market. So they're holding the monopoly and they're the ones who determine the unnatural and completely non-economic high interest, which our authorised reporter was talking about. As far as agreeing with the EU is concerned, I hope that you do not have the same intention as Mr Jelasic, which is that you fully copy the Statute of the European Central Bank, because we believe that this is a deep non-democratic principle of action. You know how Jean-Claude Trishe was elected, based on political criteria, for so-called. Governor of the European Central Bank. It is something that concerns, as is the lack of parliamentary control over the European Central Bank, which does not exist by the European Parliament. There's still some control over the central bank here, although you won't say, which I think is completely wrong, what about our foreign reserves, where they are, and whether that's, in the context of this big crisis, which you mentioned, some bank that is safe, someone who needs help or nationalization, as was an example of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank. As far as this law is concerned, we believe that he could have been shorter and clearer. This shows that there was a kind of bad compromise between those represented by Mr. Dugalic, i.e. The EU bank, and you as an expert who obviously had a good intention, but did not go in on that good intention until the end. First of all, Article 6 concerning advertising financial services could have been clearer. According to us, one definition was to be used that all provisions must be written in the same way. You know it's a cheap trick of banks, where the provisions are written in a different way, and in that sense most people were wrong about taking credit. Also, you could apply a similar provision in Article 15, which is information in the pre-contractual phase; in Article 19, which is a credit agreement; especially in Article 17, which is very large and has about twenty positions. Also, if you have already shown such detail, I see that this is a kind of new manner of manners, we have seen in the previous law, in accordance with the European Union directives, you have given the whole table, why didn't you give the form mentioned in Article 19? We see that he is also mentioned in Article 25. I think that form is much more important than the European directive, which you will admit is part of the Aki communitre, at a much lower level than the regulation. This directive, whatever is presented in our public, is a kind of framework law, a framework guidebook, which even EU member states do not apply. It is enough to look at all the judgments of the European Court of Justice that have not been applied in Germany, France and any other country. Therefore, there is no need to make a fetish out of this directive, especially when you say in that table at the end of the bill that all the provisions are not in line. Also, as regards members of the 9th and general conditions of business, again an undefined definition that is in the context of what I have previously said. Since, you will admit, there is a monopoly of EU banks on our market, it should have been written, say: the conditions of the bank's business must be similar or similar to those of these foreign banks. Also, as regards Article 10 and the obligation to inform, a formulation should be used – immediately, or a deadline. We feel the same way about Article 13. As for article 14 and employee training, it is not clear where this training will be done, either in the bank or in the NBS. It's completely unspeakable and vague, like the whole law. As for Article 16, it is very good, because it is said to prohibit the use of the term "free credit". But, please, it should be a manners that must be applied to all financial conditions, to all loans. For example, Mr Djelic represents loans from the European Central Bank as aid, as a donation. There's no help when it comes to credit, there's only interest and return conditions. So it's kind of a replacement of thesis, to say the least. It is similar with EU loans, etc. It's already some other laws we've already talked about. As for article 29 and notification of the nominal interest rate, there should also be a deadline. This again is something indicative, something unspeakable and something you'll admit doesn't commit to banks on some date that's acceptable. It also states in Article 42 that the bank is obliged to respond within 30 days to the complaint of the user. You should've put a seven-day deadline on it. You should have applied the powers you have, yet you are the governor of the NBS, regardless of all those represented by Mr Dugalić, regardless of the IMF, regardless of the letter of intent, regardless of the EU's condition. As an intellectual, as a professor, you still have to take advantage of something that is within your capabilities, which is a proposal of this law, which could have been even stronger and more principled. Also, as for Article 43, concerning the request of the National Bank of Serbia to banks under the process, we think the deadline should be reduced from eight to three days. Of course, as regards the legal basis on which you can base your policy and a stricter policy towards banks, which, you will admit, as Mr. Buha said, are minimum punishment... The fines are completely inadequate with their incomes; you know that in the first three months of this year we have had over 200m euros in revenue and that this is over 30% higher than last year. So the only part of our society and our economy and the financial market, the only part that develops in this crisis and in the context of this citizens' poverty on the basis of interest rates, is the foreign banking sector that is present on our market. It's a fact you can't avoid and you can't say it's not true. In one part of the reasoning, you mention the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, Article 169. It's about the public. It's about the famous Lisbon Treaty. This Lisbon Treaty, as the primary right above the EU directive, gives you the opportunity, since you are already calling for it and since there is one here, I don't think of you personally, but there is one general hysteria that must be entered into the EU at all costs... It allows you, in Section 4, to quote, "strict protection measures", meaning stricter protection measures compared to consumers. They must be focused on the banks of the monopolies, on the interest rates in the interest of interest that exist and on this bold and shameful behaviour that this gentleman who has won the prize of the most Europian, Mr. Dugalic, shows in the media. As regards Directive 48 of 2008, which is in that system under the Lisbon Treaty, and in it you have an excuse for what we ask of you. These are, I quote, "efficient, proportionate and dissuasive penalties". The fines had to be bigger, it's something minimal you had to do. I know that you are unable to do as Prime Minister Orban, I know that you are not able to conduct an entirely independent policy in relation to the IMF and those who are truly leading the economy and economy of this country, above all I am thinking about the EU and all those ultimatums that are signed in the letter of intent, but as a man who is expert you can do much more. It is obvious that there has been some minimal progress in relation to Mr Jelasic, who has given us some lectures here and has been trying to divert the conversation to the 1990s, which is, you will admit, a cheap trick and it is not appropriate for one law that applies primarily to the future, and the future of this country is for you, not for you personally, but for most of you, to join the EU. We believe that it is not, but that the future is in collaboration with Russia, but it is already another topic. As for the Lisbon Treaty itself, you can apply some good things from that Lisbon Treaty. If you are already looking towards this European Union, towards such non-transparent systems as the one concerning the European Central Bank, bear in mind that there are also negative sides to this Lisbon Treaty, which will apply if, God forbid, we join the EU. You will be under a financial prosecutor who will be introduced for the Lisbon Treaty and who will have the right to come here and determine whether the interests of Western banks are compromised, and will surely come from some country such as Germany, France. It's clear how it's going to end. In that sense, you have one deadline to try to amend this law, try to help consumers, try to help this market exist in some economic profession rules, though, as a market where competition, rather than a monopoly, determines the price of interest which, you will admit, is such a public data, that it is bigger in Europe only perhaps in Moldova. Therefore, it is our general position, and in the debate on amendments we will present some more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54756	Fourteen minutes and twenty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dejan Soskic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54757	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a brief look at some of the views of the Members of the People's Parliament. We heard that this bill was eight months late and that it was actually supposed to be part of another law. Our belief as a promoter is that this law is much more comprehensive and more comprehensive in regulating the matter of protection of users of financial services. I remind you that the Consumer Protection Act would actually treat only the question of consumer loans. We here are treating a very serious and present issue of mortgage loans and other financial products, including opening accounts in banks, payment cards, etc. So from that point of view, I think it's hard to say that it's late, I think it's a more comprehensive treatment of matter in general. The application has been delayed for six months, it is necessary to prepare sublegal acts and finally adapt financial institutions to the new law. Our belief is actually the same as the one you brought out. We would not want domestic financial institutions to be worse, but in a more favourable position than their business in the EU, and that was the aim of this regulation, but in certain domains we have gone further than what is the EU practice, first of all, in terms of whether or not it is possible to limit the appropriate amount of compensation paid to banks in the event of early payment. Our bill goes one step further, as this limits not only in the case of consumer loans, but also in the case of mortgage loans, which is not otherwise contained in the EU directive that regulates this area. As regards the degree of responsibility, and this issue has been touched although it is not in the context of the debate on today's draft law, I would remind you that in Serbia, neither the state, businesses or citizens are actually in relative terms in charge as in other, more developed countries. So where the financial system is more developed, where the higher level of gross domestic product and the total per capita rate of borrowing is normally higher. This should not be interpreted as an invitation to excessive and additional borrowing, but given that it has been mentioned on several occasions that the National Bank of Serbia is restrictive in terms of the lending of citizens and legal persons, I will remind you that the appropriate administrative measures that had a restrictive character have been introduced at the time of economic expansion and financial expansion, so before this financial crisis, when there was a latent danger of excessive borrowing of domestic legal and physical persons. These measures have been practically abolished; if you follow developments in the NBS, you will see that today most of these measures are almost not valid because the economic system, i.e. the country's activity and the overall financial system, is in another situation. With regard to retroactiveness, whether the law is retroactive, whether it is bad or not retroactive enough, so that it is bad enough, we went in this bill with a view to being reasonable enough, which is that the bill does not go in the direction of entering the completed and completed private legal affairs that have started and ended in the previous period on the basis of the freely expressed will of the parties in a bonding relationship which has already been concluded and in this sense there is no retroactiveity. We are also aware of the facts, and that is what we think is the interest of the users of financial services, i.e. the citizens of our country, that the provisions of this law are applied to all those financial transactions, i.e. contracts that still have a legal fact, i.e. where adequate payments are still made on the commitments taken by citizens in the lending business, i.e. the acceptance of credit obligations by banks. We don't think retroactiveness is available, but we also don't think it will be, if this bill is adopted as proposed, there's no situation that anyone will be able to continue with poor practices that are consistent with what we meet in developed and regulated states. The issue of monopoly banks is once again a question that is not directly within the scope of this debate, but I would certainly like to remind you that in Serbia they operate on 33 banks. It's not just banks from Western Europe, it's banks from Greece, Hungary, Russia, there are also domestic banks. The Serbian banking market, on the one hand, is open and, on the other hand, more competitive than in some other countries. It is enough to take an example of Switzerland where you have two dominant business banks that actually do most of the banking services in the country, or some other countries where you have a high level of concentration. We do not have that high level of concentration, but we are in a position to monitor events and to see appropriate moves among business banks that would suggest that there is a basis for doubt that certain activities are carried out in less or more formal arrangements between banks. The National Bank of Serbia is ready to respond to appropriate administrative measures if such behaviour is considered to disrupt competition on the market. The foreign reserve issue has been mentioned again. I would remind you that on the National Bank of Serbia site you have always available data on the level of foreign reserves and whether or not the National Bank intervened from foreign reserves on the domestic interbank market. It's information that's public and available. We publish them. This is something where the NBS is at a much higher level of transparency, or openness compared to the average of European central banks, we think for a reason, because I believe there is no reason to hide anything in that domain. Foreign reserves are managed in a manner defined by law. First of all, it is the safest possible placements, and the rate of contribution to such placements is secondary to the safety and liquidity of these placements. It is clearly defined what these foreign reserves are used for. I remind you that the body that has been set up by law, which is the Board of Governors, has direct insight into that part of the NBS activity, and that is the body chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will refer only briefly to what has been said that the National Bank of Serbia could further specify the appropriate conditions. In Article 17, I will remind you, in the last view, that the NBS determines the content of the forms on which the offer is sent to the user. This is an opportunity to define precisely all the elements of this offer and introduce a kind of fair play in the relationship financial institutions have with financial services users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54758	I thank Mr. Shoskovic. The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54759	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the large part, the law is good and we have no fundamental objection to it. It regulates consumer protection, financial service users, and it is good that financial service providers are obliged to make transparent, clear, specific legal work conditions. It's all right, and that's where we can say that we support the law. But the question is this, and that is where the other side of the medals should be looked – do our citizens have the standard to use the benefits offered by this law? Let's ask the former workers of the Proleter carpet factory in Zrenjanin if they intend to use credit cards, buy properties on credit, cars on lease, factories in which the bankruptcy is not yet finished after ten years and without any near appearance. In bankruptcy, the bankruptcy manager made his 50,000 euros, and workers have not yet received their claims based on unpaid earnings, which is 30% of the total amount of 210,000 dinars per worker, that is 70,000 dinars per worker; and so for ten years, without a single percentage of interest. The warehouses are still full of carpets that they once made, and the factory halls of machines that rust and fail, which these same workers bought and paid off. Maybe the question should be referred to the government, because the state has an obligation to create a business climate, conditions for economic growth, employment growth, standards growth. There are five necessary conditions for this development, these are: to make maximum use of global market opportunities; to place the accent on imports of production and management skills aimed at productivity growth and not consumer goods, with exports tailored to global demand. Second, macroeconomic stability. Do we have it here? Making high dynamics of efficient investments, private, public investments, foreign investments. Is that what we have here and are we trying to increase all these investments? As a fourth, an active industrial policy without favouring business entities and without waste of funds. Do we really have that kind of industrial policy without favoring it? It's enough to mention the burning scandal. As a fifth, stable, fair, committed and credible government that would create favourable macroeconomic conditions, i.e. a macroeconomic climate. There is a need for major changes in the way we think and behave in order to get a credible power, which can generate the necessary political and social consensus necessary for successful economic development. It's not enough, for example, for the corporate profit tax to be 10%, which is positive, when courts don't work, so it can't be charged, as the tax grows to 100%. It's not enough to have a high level of economic freedom, because the currency is overrated, so it's not worth investing in. How's the investment climate in Serbia? An unfavourable business environment in Serbia, resulting in a decrease in the number of newly established companies and a trend since 2009. The specificity of the Serbian economy is that more than a quarter of the companies in the Republic of Serbia make up those societies in which no worker is employed and more than half of the employees are employed from one to five workers. The companies that employ up to ten workers account for 86.9% of all companies, with 15.6% of the total number of employees employed. A marked concentration of ownership as a result of privatisation. We have 15.6% of employees in companies that make up private property. Where do the other workers work? Does the state hire all of them? Are they all on the budget? Are they all a burden to those who pay taxes? There's a confusion about selling allegedly the most successful companies in the country. I will mention NIS and Telecom. When we look at all this together, then the question really is, is it enough just to write good laws, to adopt good laws, which meet all the standards set by EU rules? Will we thus fully realise the ultimate objective of this law, if, on the other hand, the state does not do what is in its jurisdiction and what is the government's obligation and the ruling coalition? If that other side of the medal really doesn't run from the zero point it's on, in that case we'll only have one more law that's exhausting at the declarative level and then eventually it's all defined - the law by road and the practice by forest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54760	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54761	Thank you. As the debate moves away, I can't help but feel that the law on the protection of users of financial services is probably one of a series of pre-election laws. That sounds nice to the public, and the problem is that, although needed in reality, it's rather well-lated. The very data on complaints arriving at your Centre for the Protection of Customers of Financial Services at NBS points to complaints concerning loans, currency clauses, variable interest, changes in the accounting course, problems with current accounts, etc. These are all indicators of the position of users of financial services and, of course, the necessity of adopting one quality legal framework and solutions. Of course, this dissatisfaction comes first and foremost from insufficient information on banking services, which are increasingly diverse over time. It is difficult to understand what nominal interest rates are, effective and variable, and revaluation, credit indexation, etc. It is evident that the problems in practice are numerous. In market economies, consumer consumption provides support for economic growth together with improving the quality of life of citizens. In developing markets, the broad availability of credit is important for avoiding the concentration of wealth. However, as access to credits to citizens and businesses is improved, they must be protected from bad business practices, and the financial products offered must be transparent, without risks beyond the control of end-users. What some developed societies know is protection mechanisms through two guidelines. First, these are comprehensive consumer protection laws that allow the re-examination of the behaviour of institutions and their products, and secondly, these are the obligations of disclosure of certain data in advertising, making contracts combined with those easily available materials that contain clear and understandable information that consumers can use to make financial decisions. It is also clear that the system for the protection of financial services users does not aim to eliminate the individual’s personal responsibility to be well informed about the conditions and risks of the choice of financial products or when making various investment decisions. What has been evident lately is that it is a declarative protection of users of financial services and how it concerns the public. Many serious states are being tackled by all these reforms to eliminate gaps in regulations that allowed irresponsible lending, poor investments to go unnoticed and contribute to the financial crisis. It is clear that the crisis has brought out one stronger, stricter financial regulation, more attention to the protection of financial services users and that financial services have become a complex area. For this reason, of course, financial services users need comprehensive information regarding financial products to make it easier to choose those who meet their needs. It is evident that today, financial services users in Serbia do not have the same level of consumer protection required in the EU, which is prescribed by the EU Consumer Protection Directorate-General. It is obvious that in this area, too, you are failing to comply with European directives and standards. To the truth, this lack of public confidence, which has been quite expressed in the last period, has been increased by the absence of a comprehensive framework for the protection of users of financial services, although the National Bank of Serbia has been trying to adopt new rules concerning the way banks deal with users, natural persons, including debtors, change something. Although the regulations required trustees to disclose more information on debtors, they did not completely eliminate any bad and negative phenomena that caused this situation. It is also indisputable that, in addition to all this information, financial services users must take their own personal responsibility seriously and become familiar with all the conditions and risks of business. There are the most dangerous little letters that generally cause the biggest problems in these arrangements. The problem the law wants to address is to change those interest rates during the payment of the loan. I guess the problem isn't that the banks are breaking the loan agreement, because if that was the problem, I guess you'd say so. The regulation is otherwise the only substitute for this inefficient judiciary, and if it is a mass breach of the contract, that regulatory protection of consumers would certainly make more sense. This is actually about banks using the clauses that exist in contracts. This means that users took these loans with variable interest rates, but it was obviously not clearly stated in the contracts, but in what I mentioned earlier – this is the so-called. Fine print, fine letters, incomprehensible dictionary, and that's where problems arise. It's inevitable that what the law does, which is to cite users and banks to a contract without a clause on the possibility of changing interest... that the effect of such a law will be the same as if all credit users required fixed interest rates without a change clause. In this case, banks would likely have to calculate the additional risk, i.e. they would only be able to work with increased interest. There is no dilemma that the unilateral, arbitrary change of interest margins by banks is a practice that is quite incorrect and which is necessary to abolish, but unfortunately in our country things are not as simple as they look at first sight. We only have one example regarding the approval of housing loans, when the state freed the housing loans to the reserve and thus made the resources for these loans cheaper for the banks, and therefore for the end-users, so the housing loans became cheaper than everyone else. However, the banks then approved housing loans at 25-30 years and then the state decided in one way to flatten that relief and that made the funds expensive. This is one of the reasons why we're doing this and why we're where we are. There are questions that could be raised on this occasion, as well as generally when it comes to the situation in this sector, and that in this only alibi, the only justification is not found in some 1990s but precisely in those of the first decade of the 21st century. One of these questions is what about this bankruptcy procedure in Beobanca? After all, the best protection for all financial services users in Serbia would be the departure of one incompetent authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54762	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shoskic, I will try to support my fellow MPs in some way and say what they said differently. Before I say anything, I can't help but express my impression or opinion that basically nobody here is against the state or competent state institutions providing protection to financial services users, but it's the essence of the problem and the distinction that we need today to determine therapy for something that lasts years back. In order to give adequate therapy, we need to make a good diagnosis, to detect where the problems are, what are the problems, and whether this medicine that you have offered to be adequate and to cure things that have appeared on the ground or in practice. I must say that you are a man of impressive biography and that today you perform a very important function in this country; not long, but a very important function. I think those two things are enough reasons to oblige you that when you propose a law and ask for support in the Assembly here you perform differently from the government's representatives. They're handling such manners that their laws on the one hand are unarranged, and on the other hand, what drove me to this finding is your story of the 1990s today. I'll remind you that in 2011, the law we're talking about absolutely doesn't deserve to be associated with the 1990s in any sense and context. I understand that they're bothering you, they may not be politically appropriate to you, but it would be nice if you didn't benefit from the support of people who are fundamentally guilty of problems in the 1990s. Their support didn't bother you. I didn't hear anyone say what happened to foreign currency savings was good in the SRS. No one in the SRS welcomed the pyramidal banks of that time, and I will remind you, Mr. Soskic, that Serbia is today where those who perform in the name of pyramid banks do all sorts of things. I think that's what you should be interested in, too, so some unpleasant experiences from the 1990s don't happen again. I'll remind you of some of the things you said. You mentioned illegal practice here. You mentioned that, unfortunately, in practice some good provisions were not implemented properly. You know what you wrote in your explanation at the same time? The aim of this law is to improve good business practice. If it were a good business practice, there would be no need for this law. Good business practice is, you might know better, when all sides in business and practice are satisfied. Someone here was obviously causing a problem. What I object to you is that you did not bring life into the story from the beginning of this session, which you did not clearly tell who the problem is, what the problem is, because you are independent of both the Government and the Assembly, and most of all from the banks. You are the pillar, as you have written here, if I may find a pillar of client protection. Who can help you when it comes to banks? I should have put it that way, pointing your finger and saying what's the real problem, what the banks were doing. We're listening to a story we could read ourselves. As a man of profession and governor, we expected you to tell us much more clearly what your ambition is and who we're actually sanctioning by this law. What else did you say, Mr. Shock? On the question of my colleague Buha why legal persons are not covered, you say – legal persons have the capacity to protect themselves from it. We don't terrorise banks here, nor do we intend to put banks in an awkward position compared to legal or physical persons. I'm asking you, have the legal persons had any problems with financial service providers in ten years of practice so far? If you tell me they're not, I can accept your argument. Tell me something, you didn't cover them with this law, after the law came into force, which legal person mechanisms would be used to protect them from financial service providers if they weren't in this law? I guess they're supposed to have built mechanisms by now. If they could defend themselves, how was the problem? Why didn't they defend themselves? So one very rational question, and I think the answer was thin. I think it takes a lot more arguments to convince us that you're right. Because you'll agree with me, the taxi driver is going to buy five cars on the lease, and the terms of the contract will change voluntarily, on the one hand, by the bank, how will the owner of the taxi agency be protected? Here, I'm asking you that. It's a very simple example of life, so tell me. How, by relying on what regulation, will he defend himself when you say that legal persons have built mechanisms (and so far) compared to natural persons? It's not a legal or physical issue here, it's the bank's problem, their manners and their behavior. What's the real problem here? This story can rely on yesterday's story in the Assembly, which is, Mr. Shoskovic, which is not working in this country, the system is being questioned, that's the problem. We are deeply convinced that the state of Serbia has had legislation that it has been able to provide adequate protection to the users of banking, or financial services so far. And Mr. Bhuha brought them up a little while ago. You also had a Consumer Protection Act, you had a bond law, as lawyers say, and of course you had a Bank Act. You have prescribed for yourself through the Banks Act mechanisms and the possibility of defining everything we talk about today within the framework of the law through sublaws. No one was defending you, Mr. Shoskich, to do so. Not only did he not defend you, it was your obligation to be rigorous in relation to those who dispute you. Look at the Bank Act, members from 41 to 45, the title is – the relationship of the bank with the clients. In each of these five members as your last position, you have: "The National Bank of Serbia can prescribe closer terms and ways of exercising the rights of the 2nd member's position. “ In Article 42: “The National Bank of Serbia can prescribe closer conditions and ways to publish general conditions... “, in the following – customer protection, and in the next unique way of accounting, customer notification, etc. That's what the SRS puts on burden and says institutions don't function. The state has legislation; we can disagree with it, but it is controversial that you do not apply it, which is the obligations you have prescribed you have not used and the mechanisms you have put into your own hands you have not used. Today we're passing a law on the protection of users of financial services because you wrote and passed an indeterminate law, a law that has not obliged you to bring this business to an end, through sublaws to protect users of financial services. Do you know what this practice opens? Tomorrow from the Ministry of Trade will come the law on the protection of users of bar services, so health services, so volcanic services, etc. This opens up such a practice. The behaviour of the authorities over the last ten years, Mr. Shoskovic, has created an ambience in which things that are being solved by system laws are being solved by these individual solutions. We need a special law to develop the construction industry, so we need a special law of five members to develop a social housing. Now we need a special law to protect the users of financial services. And we are further promoting this through the adoption of European manners, principles and directives. Mr. Soskic, we also resent one thing – you have joined a society that has made the EU a new Marxism, a new dogma, as one minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia says to those who vote for it. That's what he told them. Enough of that, life in Serbia is something else. Why did the banks, which you will be chasing under this law, fail to comply with the principles and manners to which they are bound by the legislation of those states? Is it true, Mr. Shoskic, that the manners and principles of functioning that rule in the countries of the queens of these banks must be applied here too? They have to. But only in Serbia can the difference in interest on deposits and payments be ten times. This is only possible in Serbia, because we are going to the EU, European standards and European manners, and that is not possible there. But they remembered and invented the risks. A high-risk state, a bad credit rating, and everything defends and justice by that. You can take your skin off. It costs us a lot of the European Union. Today, banks in Serbia are the only companies that, as you like to say, you are the heritage of European values, the heritage of corporate governance principles. How is it possible for someone who applies the principles of corporate governance to sow such chaos in Serbia? How is that possible? The weakness of the institutions and the failure of the state. Mr. Šoštic, we are obliged, as you do in this law, to be categorical and resolute, to try to through laws, although we are not in power, to give positive things support, to return credibility to institutions and to bring to institutions those who are aware of the public and general interest and who want to serve it, which the provisions of the law "can bring" will not benefit from bringing something that can be passed, but rather from insisting on bringing it to an end. I'm not questioning the Serbian Radical Party, nor any citizen intending to protect himself, but today we question your path, as you wish to do. Maybe you're in a bad society, maybe the lobbyists my fellow MPs are talking about didn't let you make those sublaws. Maybe it's not you personally. Maybe it's your environment. If you needed the Assembly of Support, that should be made clear and plain. You are independent, no one can do anything to you if you work in the interests of the state and its citizens. You have all the mechanisms and the entire assembly to counter the haughtiness of the banks. The only thing is whether or not you're part of a policy that's been poisoning the state for ten years or you want to break up with that story for ten years. Why did banks in Serbia today do what they did? It was an economic concept of the state that promoted consumption – loans for everything and everything, at any cost. America has brought this into a situation where it is, with mortgages, or housing loans. Money has entered the country since privatisation, money has entered the country through donations, through foreign direct investments, and instead of investing in savings, in capital investments, you've pushed everyone into spending that has raised other people's businesses, because we don't even produce a hairdryer in Serbia today, let alone washing machines. I don't know how many years people have taken advantage of the opportunity and spent their loans on some things that have in no way raised their economic life in the Republic of Serbia. And today we are going to protect these people with this law. For ten years, we've closed our eyes to facts, and now we're going to watch them. I am interested in one thing (I consulted my colleague Martinovic earlier): if you say, Mr. Šoštic, that the anti-law practice has been produced and from this practice some damage has been done, I ask you who will, and from what means, compensate for the damage to those to whom this illegal practice has caused it? My fellow lawyers taught me, I don't know the right, but they taught me, and when it works by law, the state is required, or anyone who works by law, to compensate for the damage if it occurs in that business. As Martinovic explained it plastically, if you make a path and break the neighbor's glass, you have to pay for it. I'm asking you, since you said there are illegal practices and damages here, who's going to pay for it? We welcome your return of foreign exchange savings from the 1990s. All right, you're very generous, well done, great. But I'm asking you, who's going to make up for this damage? That's one question. I, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, do not mind you from the 1990s, I do not welcome everything you have done, but here they are accused of some problems. What else do I care, Mr. Shoskci? Now, watch this, so that we don't want to be irrational or populist, what does it mean, 30 days to get the object of the lising back? As a woman banker said, "Give him a car to the lysing, let him go to the sea, so that he may return from the road or from the sea in a month's time, so that he may give you your car back." Now you will say, "Well, they will pay for the damage." But why all this? How long does this country have? How long do these citizens have, how long do these institutions have to go from court to bank to pull and stretch? Or, the business society yesterday - laws, deadlines, for God's sake! Why is that? We are not people unrealistic and irrational, the SRS thinks everyone deserves to be equal. After all, the Constitution guarantees it. These banks pay some taxes and these banks hire someone. How they hire them, Mr. Shoskci, and you should know that. God forbid you're pregnant, or if you want to come in, that's right, you're laughing, Mr. Shoskic, you have to sign the first blanco agreement break-up of a working relationship. I'm asking you, isn't this law going to work out? And those people need to be looked at. It's a practice today: first they ask if you want to get married and have children, and then you can be admitted. But it's an institution problem. You can't take credit in a bank today if you're an employee, administrative, political party. MPs can't get credit. These are the things we need to talk about and the things we need to solve. It's easy to talk about European directives, sell the story of Europe. Europe is not life. What one said, is not poured into a tractor by the European Union, is not bought by a washing machine, but by loans under unfavourable conditions, or by a favourable one, until credit is granted, so when it starts to pay off... I'm personally a victim of such behavior. I've taken a loan of 130, and today I'm paying 170 euros that same interest. It's a reality in Serbia. I won't be long because of my colleagues. So we're asking you why it's 30 days' time for the losin subject to return? You've got to cut that down. If you've already given anyone a chance to break that contract, then make sure you make sure that case comes back in seven days. It's not a tax tax solution for a property tax or a gun tax, so you're complaining to the tax department of some local self-government, so you've got 30 days. It's a car. Maybe someone will buy a yacht. Maybe they'll steal it from him in that month. What kind of problem? Why all this? Next, Article 32, delay. Here, if you tell me now who this is bound by this, as it did not oblige you to bring sublegal acts, see the second position: “If during the duration of the contractual relationship circumstances arise, the circumstances that lead the user to a difficult property situation, or other important circumstances which cannot be affected by the user, the bank, or the leaser, may declare a default on the request of the user (moratorium)... “ etc. What does that mean? Whom does this “can ” bind? Do you want to help them or not? Do you want to order the bank to determine the moratorium or not? Because of the criminally privatized companies, we discussed the law yesterday. Imagine what was invented in Serbia? Corporate debtor. In five percent of the factories, i.e. enterprises in Serbia, the principles of corporate governance are applied, but we have corporate debtors. It's only in Serbia. Because of them, Serbia will pass the law, to restructure their debts. I'm asking you now, if you've already solved it and defined yourself as giving the possibility of moratorium, why didn't you say it in the law clearly – the bank is obliged to do it and that, in accordance with the rules? What does “can ” mean? Who's he making this binding? He doesn't commit to anyone. The banks that produced this in Serbia will be difficult to make with this "can" do something like that. It's a pay card. It says here that the bank is obliged to accept any moment of notice that it was stolen or disappeared. I don't think that's settled well enough. What does that mean? Who are you gonna call at the bank on Sunday nights at 9:00? Or, if there's an obligation to be on call in banks or somewhere to report it, whoever's listening to that application doesn't have to say that it's actually been reported; only that you're pulling the files out of the phone via the BIA, so whoever reported this missing card proves that the card really lost and that it needs to be done new. So I'm going to conclude my discussion, and there's going to be more details. Mr. Šoštic, without questioning your intention, the SRS invites you not to look like the government; the SRS thinks you should behave differently, show determination and categorism to seduce order in the financial sector. You today can install a political programme of the Serbian Radical Party into any law, we question its implementation because of those who run this country and these institutions. Your obligation is not to look like them, since you're an independent organ. The Serbian Radical Party will raise further objections in the discussion of details. In accordance with that, we will determine ourselves according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54764	Twenty-two minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54765	Mrs. Comic, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54766	Forty-eight minutes were the moment MP Dragan Stevanovic began his presentation, he used twenty-two minutes and thirty seconds, so you have twenty-five minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54767	Mr. Šoštic, this little device is USB, there's evidence of the Energy Project; you were a member of the Supervisory Board there, you probably know that, you have it all. Here, I've been calling for two days for Miljko Radisavljevic to take this, there's this material for today's subject, but about that after. Let's get in line. With great pleasure, we have been listening to very good discussions in the National Assembly for two days. First we had a confession from Mrs. Comic yesterday, I commended it. Today we had the confession of Mr. Velimir Ilic. Earlier, it was a recognition that he brought money, foreign exchanges, preparation on October 5th; now we had a very nice confession about Cyprus and the Cypriot couples, etc., although I am the only one saddened for it, but well, it doesn't matter now. When all those who have been in power since October 5th to this day recognize what they have done or criticized the existing power, I must give them support. Mr. Miljko Radisavljevic, you also wonder, there is a criminal report by lawyer Djordjevic on several thousand pages of Cypriot money, but about that afterwards. Let's take it in a row. In 2001, our banks were immediately liquidated. It started with loans, remember that – starting property, flying credit, apartment credit, school credit, new car credit, all nice, nice. The interest rates were a little strange, but then the barbers of DOS came out on TV and said, "People, what are you fighting about, that's the price of capital; please, you know how much capital it's worth, in order not to lose value you have to pay the interest rate. That's how the yelling started. We warned, we criticized, and you smiled. Today we have data, Mr. Shoskic, 500,000 families in the Republic of Serbia are over-indebted. I don't know the structure, there's probably some families where no member works; maybe some kid works through some youth cooperative. There are, Mr. Soskic, 100,000 in Serbia, working in private businesses, working both in state, working in state administration, public enterprises. It is received through a youth cooperative, and for a certain time, so overnight it becomes indefinite if it fits into yellow, it is dominant, as the "hepatitis D" government in Serbia. So 500,000 families are in a very difficult situation. That's 328,000 loans from some citizens. But not to read it to you, you know it well. Now, the citizens of Serbia owe on the basis of a debt for housing loans of 286,000 dinars; on the basis of borrowing for the cash of 130,00,000 dinars. Forty-nine billion dinars today, citizens cannot pay the banks, and two hundred billion dinars today cannot pay the economy. That's 21% of our business's total debt to the banks. As far as the population is concerned, it's 8.8%. Now a nice question for people at the National Bank: if a man pays off a loan, who can make the bank pay the bond back to the citizens? Is it possible that it hasn't been covered by regulations in our country by now? Is it possible that we don't apply the Bond Law? The Bond Relations Act has several chapters that regulate bank loans and bank contracts. There is no specificity, but we have a situation where in this Serbia, where negative statistics are recorded according to all the criteria, we have one area that flourishes, it's banking. So last year there was a profit in banking of 25,400,000 dinars. That's 254,000 euros, profit. Then we come into a situation where we can say very precisely how banks behave in Serbia. It's very simple, the owners of capital in banks, who they are, say: this year I have to earn so much; in order to earn so much, I'm going to have expenses that are going to cost this much. I have money that I can place so much, I have to form an interest rate of - the world record. And when the previous governor allegedly criticises the banks and says, "Golden Frank, be careful how you repay yourself, and then he gets it, and now he's running off to some bank, he's actually sending a message -- go free, get in charge, there's the National Bank that controls all this. So, the only banking sector in Serbia is booming. All other sectors are limping. Well, how is it possible that someone has come to the conclusion that the citizens have the potential to draw funds and carry it abroad or to increase the capital of banks here or to do who knows what they want? So in a few years, you've done a great miracle from the Bank of Intects. So how is everything where Delta is, where is Miskovic – successful? Yesterday we heard that Miskovic owes two hundred or three million to the state in the name of the tax. How come you didn't apply some law then? You put local self-government in charge of these same banks. So someone put a finger on the forehead, and now they're going to write a law on how to get the property back to local self-government. The kind we have in local self-government, they're going to sell and trade, and monuments and cemeteries, they're going to sell. We follow the European path. Then a girl shows up on TV, advertises the bank and says, "Don't you still have an apartment?" And that's not child abuse? No, it's not. Uncle, do you have an apartment that you don't go to the bank to get in debt and bury yourself right now? Who's setting up the governor and the National Bank for us? Well, those foreign banks. There's a Vienna Agreement, so what's the question of the National Bank here? She could have introduced order? She's going to impose order on this law? Well, look what "smiles" they wrote; this must be kept, this Martinovic will have to promote with his colleagues there at the university, with a professor of bond law and can also be with a professor of administrative law. You know what you made up? You invented fines, and then you invented criminal provisions. What's the difference? Why do you charge fines? And there are no criminal acts here. There will be a public debate tomorrow on the Law on the financing of political parties; if someone remands with the payment or booking of one membership fee, three years in prison. There's no crime here, there are violations, but there are fines when they charge for it. We have one wrong concept. Why would supervision of insurance companies for leases, voluntary pension funds be in the National Bank? Why wouldn't that be the Ministry of Finance? He can't. Because it's designed for someone who controls money flows to be out of government, out of Parliament, out of justice, to cheer and dress. How does he cheer and dress? Well, you had an example with "Metals Bank"; temporary measures introduced and then Pajtic bought a bank. Now, tell me, please, what is the development bank that makes a profit of 130,000,000 dinars during business in the previous year? Well, I guess the development bank doesn't form for profit; it needs to bear the burden of some of the things that are happening on the market and to enable selective development of something that makes the bank exist, whether it's agriculture, whether it's industry, doesn't matter. No, and they're acting markety. So Saric's capital must be fertilized here. Well, is that Saric's capital then? Did you maybe invent this Charic? How's that? Let's move on. It says here that the biggest problem is interest; if you solve the interest problem, everything else would be normal. Well, it can't be normal. How can it be normal? If you owe a tax, you charge an interest rate higher than the banks charge. And the state owes. For many investments, the state owes. She even owes for what she got as a donation. A dedicated donation, for example, a judicial building -- so many millions to be settled; spent a mob of money, not to builders, 150 suppliers under a blockade, they have to flee abroad to work, they have no chance here. Yesterday we had a "smart" law that would say -- we want to financially restructure you by sending you to the banks, so you end up with them, both creditors and debtors. Woe to him whom ye help. Tadic's getting wet yesterday that he'll be working again since New Year's Eve. Guys, there's gonna be a cancellation, be safe. As soon as he says he's hiring, he'll be fired. As soon as these guys got here, some banks, etc., disaster follows. Remember, we criticized you for free action. A younger hero two months ago, he said, "I had to lie, people, to beat Tadic." The same is said to us today, Mr. Soskic: Dear citizens, I must, on official duty, worry about your loans because there is the possibility of you returning credits, not running away from these banks, because if these banks run away, the payment traffic of the Republic of Serbia is even greater. We now have banks as promoters of European Union policy. It is very easy to resolve: the interest rate that Raiffeisen Bank applies in Austria should apply in Serbia. Those applying in France should also apply in Serbia. He says he's got a lot of suspense, and we've got all the mortgages. What uncertainty when it's secured by a mortgage? There's no uncertainty. We need to be in a slave relationship, so that no product is produced here, but that EU products are bought. A stable currency is needed by foreigners to achieve interests here, and sometimes a stable currency corresponds to citizens so as not to increase their real dinar obligations in conditions when they lose their jobs. Woe to him whom ye help. It's very difficult when you're helping. It's like when the father and the son are in the pub, and one of the next tables comes, slapping his father, and the son jumps heroically and says, "It's never happened to you again." This one slaps him one more time, this one jumps, and the father says, "Son, don't defend me anymore, it hurts me so much." Who are you defending? Do you see that each of your papers says: the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, this group, so the OSCE came, so he came, so they're looking for us? This is where people say - we want to live. You come out here, and you get over yourselves—and we are for you to live, but not for the IMF. We must commit suicide by travelling towards the European Union. There is no answer to the question why you did not pass this law in 2001 but in 2011. It's not because of the financial services users, it's because of the financial service providers. At the heart of all the activities of the National Bank of Serbia are foreign banks, their interests, guarding their placements! Well, and state reserves, foreign exchange reserves are in America, Great Britain, Germany, they're not in these. There's 1,600,000 in these for some kind of current override. Now this course is made because our people from abroad, to take a little Euros, because they like Euros. What the hell are you guys talking about? You're fighting for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Tell me what you did for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Everything that works with you – the financial market works. Law on the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits – basically, interest to be provided to banks. In the case of this lising law, again. It was to help the construction industry; only to help banks and guarantee their interest. A hole in the budget – immediately a value paper show, 15-16% of the cards, give foreigners money because they have safe, because they are debt charters, the state guarantees. All citizens of Serbia must pay for their failures and failures. But here it's consciously done, there's no mistake here. Here is the path to the European Union. Brussels has made demands, they're here with us with a nice song, a directive this, a directive she... Why is the directive binding on us when we are not a member of the European Union? Those directives don't apply to them there either. Why are you making us apply something that doesn't exist as a commitment? Where's your life in the first place? You forgot about life, you forgot about people. But now you're getting ready. Now you've stolen big money, "The mouth," this, like, election campaign, now that you're going to change ties, you're changing this, that. If it can trigger another fraud to secure immunity, we'll move on. So 75% of citizens don't want to hear that story, the EU, the NATO Pact. He doesn't want to. They know and they know it's euthanasia, suicide. You recognize the pro-Western traitor regime. You can't get rid of that. You can get stuck out of the stained veins, you can't achieve one good result for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can take your eyes out and arrest each other, who took 300 million, who took 200 million, who this is, what, to make some affairs, but it's all in the house, DOS, DOS, DOS. Stop attacking the SPS more for what happened in 1991, 1992 and 1993. I'm not their lawyer, I don't think so, but, you know, communicate with the truth a little bit and with reality. The fact that they don't want to defend themselves, that's their problem. I have to make this kind of replica, to make things right, because you can't change history. I don't mind that you love Hansel Dacic, it's your political commitment... (President: National MP, with all due respect and otherwise for turning from agenda to agenda, if you could at least a little NATO pact and euthanasia on the agenda? I didn’t talk about the suitcase, so I didn’t do any insinuation. Please don't interrupt me. I'm talking about a coalition that has a suicide path leading Serbia. (President: I fully understand you, but when we have, if we have, a agenda point where you will file an impelation or other parliamentary law, a request for a debate on a government that has support, etc.) Now I ask you to talk about the bill. All right. So you didn't regulate everything. Why didn't you solve that savings bank's problem, "Elite"? Why don't you work it out because you're a sharp saber? That's where everyone says we're not in charge. The finance ministry says it's not competent. The IRS says she's not in charge. The National Bank says she's not in charge. And those poor people who have been deceived, whether 200 or four hundred million euros, it doesn't matter, they say exactly who took it, who is sponsoring that man who did the job. State shut up. Milko Radisavljevic is quiet. Here, I'm waving the USB. He's got everything. Why don't you shut up? Did the European Union tell you she can't handle this degree of corruption and crime? Why would you trade that? You know we will never be members of the EU. What's important to you is that this beautiful song goes by and if another citizen can be fooled. Anyone who believed you got hurt. Who believed in the banking system from 2001 to today? Those who banged in pots and worked in those banks got fired a long time ago and sold apartments to move to the villages, just so you know. Those who believed in the commercials “Start for Assets”, then licking, then flying, and so on, here they are, 500,000 families, overindebted. The government runs another action, how to relax. It's not this law, it's another regulation that applies. But they have to try to get through this test. If this test goes through, then it'll go to the other one. But if that ends with regulations, it'll be a crime scene, just so you know. Because the European path means crime as a major ingredient, content and essence, to preserve the environment; Serbia reportedly wants to join the European Union at all costs and agrees with everything. The Serbs will be much nicer without Kosovo and Metohija, without any of our factories, without our banks. Everything from abroad is very nice. And very expensive. Well, that's what Mr. Shoskovic is for. He was chosen by the bankers. He wasn't chosen by politics. These bankers even formed a government, you know. The two last governments were formed thanks to the people who are the richest in Serbia. They answer to define who will be the authority, who will be the opposition. They need an opposition who won't mind, who's going to talk there so little. That's why there's no radicals in that story. But 75% of citizens share the value of the Serbian Radical Party. What else can be said about this regulation? You've mixed up fines and violations, absolutely. The second question, with what right do you fall into something regulated by the Bond Relations Act? What do you think, with this law as a lex specialization, you're going to devalue the provisions of the Bond Relations Act? That's not gonna work. You can't do that at any time. You're talking about some transparency. What is this transparency if the interest rate is variable? Now, let's absorb some other reasons, the main culprit for interest growth and interest rates in this country is the state. Why? Because it doesn't allow production. Take any businessman, take what's plus and what's minus at the end of the year to draw the line, who was he working for? He worked for the state administration. In order to get something positive, he has to take out the spares from the straw. And as soon as it comes out of the straw reserve, it funds Mr. Šoštic, Mr. Cvetkovic, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Saper, Krstic, Djilas, Nicovic, Miskovic, Beka etc. They're all monopolies, they're just properly deployed: one's in the media, one's in banking, one's in trade, politics, etc. Of course it has to go down. This is what people have to bring down if they want to live. If people in Serbia want to be deceased, they will make a mistake again. But 75% of citizens don't want to follow this time. That's uncompromising. It can't be put on, it can't be sprayed. It could have been two, three, five years ago, high expectations from the EU. It's impossible today. Whoever uses the EU's words today, the NATO Pact, be sure not to go to elections. Because the people are normal. He can't vote against his children, against his house. How can he vote and say that the next day, because he didn't pay for the water or the sewers or the phone or I don't know what else, he needs his house confiscated? Like Cory Widowsky said, or you're gonna pay for electricity, and if you don't, sell the apartment. End of story. This is European value. Isn't it possible for you to run economic policy so that it can be European and secure a European standard here? No, I don't. You owe 30 billion dollars to the state, sold everything it could do, over-indebted the citizens. To whom you sold all the estates and to whom you leased, God help you. Now you're going one step further, to get back to local self-government. Now imagine that local self-government, what you would do with that property when it comes back. And monuments would sell, and shops and fountains. You're destroying the country. Why? Because all of you who came to power on October 5th and all of you who are in power today, in any aggregate state, are a pro-Western treason coalition working against the vital interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54768	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. After that, MP Milan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54769	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, dear Mr. Šoštic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the debate in the principle of an extremely important legislative proposal is nearing its end, first of all I want to say that we have had a really good debate in principle and that much has been heard during this day. I will try again, relatively briefly, to the extent possible, to make the views of the SPS-JS parliamentary club regarding this legislative proposal. Therefore, the SPS - JS Parliament Club will support the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services because we believe that the adoption of this bill will circle the consumer protection system, of course, along with the General Consumer Protection Act, and that the level of protection of clients, users of financial services will be increased. We find it extremely important to introduce precise and clear rules when it comes to our banking system. We also believe that this law will ensure a fair and fair relationship between clients and banks. It's simply not just about protecting clients from banks, it's about protecting banks from clients. So this law should define, in one way or another, a fair way of defining, very precise, responsibility. It is true that there is no bank client who is not surprised by the unexpected collection of any service, or hidden costs. On the other hand, of course banks also meet a large number of clients who do not want to return the money they took under any conditions. So it's also in the interest of banks to improve practice by applying one of these laws. Therefore, the law should ensure the protection of users of financial services, improve business practice and a fair relationship with users, as well as contribute to their better information. This law will be, I would say, a good basis for regulation of the market. It is good that we will have a special law that will regulate this specific area, which could certainly not be regulated by the General Consumer Protection Act. As is said among other things, the law almost fully transposed the EU Directive, institutions that do not exist in Serbia, but will also refer to housing loans, safes, accounts, deposits, credit cards and other services. Essentially, the most important segments of this proposal, in the short lines, would be: it is envisaged that the client knows in advance all the conditions under which the debt is due and during which time the interest rates are changed; the interest rate must be shown with all the costs that follow the repayment of the credit; the margin cannot be changed in the course of payment; the bank cannot unilaterally change the essential elements of the contract and break it unilaterally; the client can give up the credit and pay it prematurely with a fee of not more than 1%. When it comes to the concrete objection heard in public and addressed by banks, or the Association of Banks of Serbia, the retroactiveness of the law, it is important to say that this is not about classical retroactive provisions. They relate to the obligations that come after the entry into force of this law, in the part relating to the application and calling for a special business policy of banks. But in order not to talk about all the objections that could be heard in public, I'm going to ask a simple question, and that's what I want to finish the discussion with. So how well is the announcement of the purchase of certain financial services, or is there a reasonable basis for such an announcement in any provision of the legislative proposal that we are talking about today? With this issue once again, I would like to make it clear and precise that the Socialist Party of Serbia and Unity of Serbia's parliamentary club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54770	Four minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by MP Milan Vukkovic, after which, MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Governor, I'm sorry we no longer have speakers and greater interest today, at least in the Assembly, for this law. All today's discussions can be divided into two groups: discussions of those who praise the law, from the ruling coalition, and those on the side of the opposition who criticise the situation in the financial system, the economic situation in the state, the standard of citizens, but little or no concrete bill, which hopefully we will soon vote on, therefore, the law on the protection of users of financial services. When we adopted the Consumer Protection Act in October last year, there was a proposal from the Consumers' Association, NGOs, individuals to enter that law and those provisions that protect consumers when taking so-called. consumer credits. The response of the Ministry of Trade and the National Bank of Serbia was that these loans, as well as all other financial services, would be covered by a special law on the protection of financial services users. I'm glad that a few months after that, the law ended, which is why this great law came to the congregation procedure, although two months ago it arrived in the Assembly without an emergency, without undue haste. I am glad that we are fulfilling our promises and that this law, which we need, is on the agenda of the congregation today. I call upon all remaining participants, who are no longer much left, to commit, above all, to this law. Why does this law matter to us? First of all, because it affects a huge number of our citizens. It's not about elite groups, it's not about protected individuals, it's about almost all of our citizens, at least all our employees. It's not just about those who take credit, it's about those who have payment cards, those who have an open current account. So this law applies to most of our citizens and that's what citizens need to know. It protects them from relationships they have towards financial institutions, banks, Leasing companies, insurance companies, etc. On the one hand, in this relationship we have, I mentioned already, the banks, the licking of society, insurance companies, voluntary pension funds, and on the other hand we have individuals, citizens, those who rely on themselves. So, on the one hand, the financial institution that has the opportunity and, as a rule, has employees, economists, marketing experts, experts of all possible profiles, and on the other hand we have a citizen, an individual who may have little, perhaps no knowledge of financial flows, of the way interest is calculated, of financial transactions at all. That must be why this law is necessary. Could he have been brought in early? He could have, but those who criticised this bill today also had their own governments in the last ten or twenty years so they didn't pass such a law. This initiative should be commended. This relationship between a natural person – a bank, or a financial institution, is not a relationship of rivalry. That's where we're supposed to put the dot. There's been a lot of negative comments about banks today. We need the banks. Unlike 15-20 years ago, most of our citizens can take credit to solve their financial problems, buy a thing that may not be available at a certain time for cash, or solve perhaps the biggest financial issue that is being asked to a man in his life, which is a housing issue. That relationship, as I said, is not equal. On the other hand, legal entities should not be covered by this law, since legal entities, therefore, companies or associations that go to banks for certain financial services, are presumed to engage their experts and have some knowledge. If they don't, I don't know why they exist. How will we protect our citizens in the contacts they make with these financial institutions? First of all, we have already heard that there is a obligation to inform financial services users, therefore, clients, our citizens, by banks and financial institutions, about all costs that the user is obliged to settle. That is why it is also offered to ban the use of expressions that are advertised as free of charge, although they are not, since when you take credit or licking they oblige you to conclude another contract or to pay some other expenses that the financial institution allegedly has. That is why mandatory elements of the contract concluded with the financial institution are prescribed. Also, the story of an effective and nominal interest rate doesn't sound too theoretical in Serbia today, nor is it alienated from real life, nor is it just for economists, it's a relationship with all of our citizens. Simply, banks have found a way to attract as many users as possible by advertising only a nominal interest rate, so what they calculate as a nominal interest rate, but in doing so they don't tell you, until you enter the bank and almost until you sign a contract, which is all hidden costs, so we have various fees, credit bill costs, bank costs, real or made-up, who knows that. What's the point is, we can't compare to competition what the terms are, what the bank, or the financial institution to choose if we need a loan. When we want to buy margarine we'll go to one store, see what the price is, compare it to another store and decide whether to buy it here or elsewhere. In practice so far, it was impossible in this case. You could advertise at an interest rate of 1% on an annual level and accumulate so much so-called. additional costs that you will be the most expensive as a bank, without being seen at first sight, nor can you see on the billboard that calls you as you drive to get into the bank as soon as possible and as soon as possible to get out of it, of course, with cash in your hands and solved life problems. Therefore, it is very important for us to have an effective interest rate, so the interest rate in which all additional credit costs are included, calculated uniquely, which brings us Article 11, paragraphs 4 and 5, which say: "The bank and the leaser are obliged to account for an effective interest rate in a single, prescribed manner, in order to compare the same offers of different financial services providers. The National Bank of Serbia is closer to determining the conditions and method of calculating an effective interest rate. “ Also, in advertising, the amount of effective interest rate should be written so that it is more visible than the other elements. That's what this bill says. Another benefit for our citizens is the possibility to give up the concluded credit agreement, the non-accounting agreement, the issue and use of credit card contracts, the lease and the financial contract, within 14 days of the date of conclusion of the contract, without giving up reason to give up. It is certainly useful for all of our citizens who have contact with financial institutions, and, as I said at first, most of them do. The whole law is so written that little words of criticism can be said. We can speak commendably in an endless manner, but I'd like to point out a few more things. What is very important for our citizens is to limit the amount that the bank can charge from the client in the event of early payment of the part or the total amount of the remaining loan. How'd that work so far? You had the opportunity in a contract you sign with the bank, I'll take an example of a housing loan, to pay off an early portion or a full amount of credit, but they charge you for that remaining amount that you pay off your own coster, so it's 2%, 3%, it can be more, depending on the bank. If you happen to want 5,000 euros in capital to take off your neck, because you had some inheritance in the meantime, you have to pay another two or three percent of their expenses at that 5,000. What the law does unequivocally is limit that amount to only 1%, and that if the payment of the loan comes for a period longer than one year, and if the period is less than one year then it's only 0.5%. It's something that's very useful to everyone. There's still a lot of things I don't want to elaborate on, but citizens need to know that in the case of stealing a payment card that they own, they're going to be doing maximum damage to 15,000 dinars. So if someone damages you more, you as a citizen are not obliged to pay. It's something that protects the standard of our citizens, it's something that's respectful and it's something that's not pre-election law, it's a law that brings good to all citizens. Also, the possibility of shutting down a payment card will not continue to exist. I hope that this will be the case in other institutions, because I know that many universities in Serbia want to withdraw their documents and move to another university or even get hired to seek a certain amount of compensation to issue their own documents. This law will prevent such practice. Great law, good job to the National Bank of Serbia. I call upon the MPs to vote in greater numbers than usual, so 126, 127, 128, this law. This will send a message to everyone that good laws are being voted against regardless of whether you are the government or the opposition, because you support what is good for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54772	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is given by MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who was last registered on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54773	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, honourable MPs, the SPS - JS will support the proposed law because there is a law before us that is likely to cause undivided feelings among the citizens we represent. I can't help but point out at the beginning of my presentation that this law is actually putting one of the few segments in order where our banking system shows weakness. If we were to observe Serbia's banking system and other parts of the economy, we could only have words of praise for the institutions that showed the highest degree of understanding for our country's needs at a time when it was the biggest crisis and which, despite the occasional silly steps, were still a true partner to our economy and our country. In public, unfortunately, there is a fama, which is constantly heated in the yellow press, about interest rates, large profits and other failures of banks, as well as other financial institutions, and all of this is proven through calls of analysis that are devoid of any expertise, but are therefore rich in tendence and malignancy. We can thank the financial sector for making our lives easier: transactions are secure; we have a place to place our assets, at a risk that is close to zero; we can buy apartments, cars, we can fly, we can take other things on credit; banks can finance the economy, they can use their basic and crafts assets; the state has a place to find funding for the rights of its citizens. Although this type of view of the financial sector seems extremely unpopular in the quasi-strucular public, it does not mean that something is not popular and true. However, although on average very constructive, our banks that are most exposed to criticism occasionally showed a certain degree of misrepresentation of their clients that went from small hidden costs to quite large violations of contractual obligations and rights through very unusual interpretations of the contract. In most cases, this was not the result of bank policy, often due to objective circumstances. Bank products are usually very complex, the realisation of a single housing loan involves dozens of legal relations, a large number of calculations, variables that are variable and cases that do not have to, and can happen. It is humanly expected that despite the quality training of bank officials and managers, even they can't know every aspect of their work, and even less that they can point out to clients any possible case if the client doesn't ask them about the same. The main problem that exists in the relations between the public and the financial sector is this information asymmetry. The knowledge of the average customer about the products he purchases in most cases is very limited, and even the most formaled customers do not often know all the product characteristics they buy from the bank or other financial institutions. The mentioned information asymmetrys of this type place the seller in a privileged position, and in almost all cases banks and other financial institutions are trying to reduce the existing information gap through oral notification of contractual clauses. It could now be said from this visa that relations are idyllic and that everything can be solved through the Consumer Protection Act, the Bank Act; here other colleagues have mentioned various laws. However, examples from practice show us that this is nevertheless a simplified view of problems in relation to citizens, businesses and the financial sector. A few cases have been recorded that certain banks in Serbia have offered product packages and have sold to citizens such products without fixed maintenance costs, with the usual clause that they have the right to change, in line with the bank's business policy, and conditions. However, the banks mentioned would change their terms after some period and start charging fixed monthly interest without informing their clients of changed conditions. All the clients who bought the entire package of products because they only needed one service from the bank came in position, because of the bank's haughtiness, that their credit rating had been broken; there was a cost for the service, and they didn't actually want to buy the whole package, only with a fixed maintenance cost. The reference to the judiciary is immeasurable. Why? Because the cost of court proceedings is triple the amount of direct material damage to the client. Only the determination of the damage resulting from a muddy credit rating is the same questionable category. There are examples of banks that refused to comply with the variable interest rate with the movement of a three-month or six-month euribor when it was in the client's interest. These banks creatively interpreted the contracts and claimed to have made the adjustment, but changed the fixed portion of the interest rate according to the bank's business policy. This is about the classic abuse of the clause, and customers do not have a cost-effective exit from the refinance of housing or other credit, because the output requires significant funds that cannot be paid off at the time of the loan. The court case is also ineffective from the point of view of subsequent damage and only the clients remain silent and suffer the power of a more powerful partner. Finally, we can add less malpractice procedures that have also brought individual bank clients into an awkward position. The campaign, which highlighted the low nominal interest rate of credit indexed in Swiss francs, has led a large number of credit users to finance their investments with this type of credit. Although it may be noted that the customer should be asked about the product characteristics he buys, and there is the saying "Cavaat Emptor", it is a winged that at this time when we accept standards that warn customers of very banal and generalized things simply is not a good starting point. These examples and the nature of relations with high information asymmetry tell us that it is good that we have a law that will protect good business practices and reduce room for doubt about certain aspects of the legal relationship between the bank and its clients. Finally, we are given the opportunity to make at least the financial sector a factor of stability and a constructive player in our market if we already have big problems with good business practice and real sector performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54774	Seven minutes and forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54775	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to express my gratitude for what you've given me, regardless of the list, to get my word. Thanks again. Mr. Shoskic, it's a very unusual procedure to pass this law. We discussed this issue in October 2010, when the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was the Consumer Protection Act. At that time, one of our main objections to the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs, and I think a lot of opposition MPs, was that there is no provision in this law that deals with consumer protection regarding financial services. At the time, however, ministers, representatives of the government who attended the session at the time, said a special law on the subject would be passed by the end of 2010. We're already halfway through 2011. That's why it's an unusual flow and an unusual procedure. It seems to me that there was an empty promise that this law would be passed because of the situation in which the banking system was located and because of the relationship between the users of financial services and their position in those services. I'll remind you, Mr. Shoshky, of some things. The impression that is dominant seems to me, in all of Serbia, and at present that is the situation – when you show up and raise credit, regardless of whether it is consumer or residential, one bank will have an interest of 8%, with another bank up to 12%, the third is more so, etc. I'm sure you know why, and I'm sure you also know that when we discussed the Consumer Protection Act, it was a very strong resistance from most banks to include certain provisions in the Consumer Protection Act. I'm sure you know the reason for that, and I think the citizens of Serbia know it, too, that they are absolutely certain of what was the reason for these banks' resistance. The outcome of this bank resistance seems to me to be that today in Serbia (not only today, but several years ago) very popular loans to refinance loans and that is one of the reasons why banks have resisted the installation of certain provisions in the Consumer Protection Act. It would be very interesting to have as much information as in this period of inaction, the non-compliance of this law has been credited to refinance credits. It would be a very interesting piece of information to discuss. The question is, what is the number of citizens who will pay interest on interest? Did it take eight months for a law of 50 members to be passed in such a difficult state? How many of our citizens have gone into a difficult financial situation? That's what we heard a few MPs were talking about selling apartments and running from cities to the countryside to survive. Therefore, the explanation that this law more comprehensively regulates this area, which is not slow, falls into the water against such facts, the fact of inaction, the lack of goodwill to protect the empty pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The question we certainly didn't get an answer in this law is whether all citizens are equal when they take up credit. I'd like you and I to visit a bank and see how there is obvious discrimination. And that's what this pay phone is about. Practice will show that this law will be a dead letter on paper. All in all, it seems to me that there was no good will, and that it doesn't exist today, that in one more serious way this is arranged. In the end, I'm sure of one thing, Mr. Shoskic, in Serbia everything cares, only banks grow, especially foreign ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54776	Six minutes and forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dejan Soskic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54777	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, just a few more information regarding whether this bill came to you too late. I'll remind you that the work on this law was started last fall, right at the time when the Consumer Protection Act was in the process. It was then decided that a more comprehensive, more thorough, more comprehensive regulation of the area of protection of financial services users was needed. I'll remind you, too, that this bill was done to all available professional potentials within the NBS. We have hired the best experts in this area that Serbia has to help us with this job. We also included representatives of the Department of Trade in the business. We had public debates, which I was already talking about, where banks' associations and lease companies had the opportunity to hear about this bill, to respond to that bill. The draft was published at the end of December, as we announced, that by the end of the year we would form a draft law. The draft was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on January 31st of this year, with the corresponding minor corrections. I think that in the shorter term, from the point of view of the promoters, it was really difficult to ensure the necessary level of quality of text and it was really difficult to provide the necessary level of consultation with all those we thought could contribute to the quality of the text at that stage. Secondly, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a brief look at some of the more important things that have been said here. One is that we need to strengthen the institutions of the system in our country. It's undeniable, we fully share that belief. If there were a greater efficiency of certain institutional institutions in our country, that there was a higher degree of consideration and guidance in all aspects of contractual relations in which individuals can enter with financial institutions, but it should not be forgotten, and a higher degree of responsibility by the financial institutions themselves to apply good practice in the territory of our country in which their parent banks operate, I believe that today there would be much less need for this bill to be found before you. We, conditionally speaking, evolved to those stages where we realized that the measures actually taken by the National Bank of Serbia in the previous period were obviously not enough to establish the level of fair relations between financial institutions and financial services users in our country. Hence, in fact, our mood to come up with a comprehensive proposal of this type, therefore, by a law which, I believe, in a more comprehensive way, will regulate the matter of the protection of users of financial services. I would remind you that the National Bank of Serbia, in the context of its responsibilities, made a decision in 2009 on the way and procedure of implementing the general conditions of business that banks apply in relation to their clients. So, the accent here is put on natural persons, regardless of the fact that among the respected MPs, there is a view that it was necessary to extend jurisdiction and beyond world standards, in the sense that such a law defines and refers to legal persons, therefore, between a financial institution and a legal person. This is a deviation from an international standard, and I must admit that our point of view was that legal persons still have greater potential and human resources to see the contractual obligations they enter with banks in the right way and in general. It is true that this is probably not enough in our country, but it is also true that a regulator such as the NBS must, with due care and measure, enter into these relations and relations which, as we have had the opportunity to hear from one of the MPs, are nevertheless bonding and legal relations that arise with the free will of the two parties and where this free will is explicitly expressed by the signing of the parties, without any coercion for appropriate financial transactions or financial transactions to be concluded. I would point out, too, and it's not in the context of our debate today, to the fact that as a legislator of this law, we haven't mentioned our recent history, so in the 1990s, in some other context than trying to explain the situation in which we've all found ourselves as citizens of our country over two thousand years. In the process of investing in contractual relations with banks, it was often our priority to get a loan that we couldn't get in the 1990s. As a rule, people paid less attention, unfortunately, to all aspects of these contracts they signed, and they were probably starting from standard, type contracts that couldn't be discussed with the bank. What we wanted to achieve by this legislative proposal is precisely to protect that segment of financial services users. These are ordinary citizens who, by definition, do not need to have sufficient level of knowledge and prudence in their actions and hence this proposal that we are now able to elaborate before you. It is mentioned that the National Bank of Serbia is returning the old foreign currency savings. I would correct the MP, the old foreign exchange savings are being paid back to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the price paid by all of us who pay taxes in this country. I would underline, too, a constructive proposal, which is that the return of the lising object potentially be with a smaller deadline, perhaps immediately. These are the things that we had dilemmas and internal conversations in the NBS as a proposer, but also in a public debate that was conducted. We're not even locked up for that kind of promotion of the existing bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54778	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has been passed by National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, deputy president of the Group of Representatives, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54779	I would like to respond to my colleagues, as well as the citizens of Serbia, a small number of debaters, even from the Progressive Group of Serbia, are prompted by the misunderstandings caused by the way we have been presented with a consolidated agenda. I'll call it a misunderstanding this time, and I'll make sure that in this time of twenty minutes, which I have the right to, according to the Rules of Procedure, give an assessment of the law, but also something broader, context and conditions for the adoption of the law. Meyer Rothschild, founder of the largest and most powerful banking dynasty, once said – give me control of money in a country, I don't care who makes the laws. I want to ask the question whether we are sure who actually has control over money in Serbia and whether the National Bank of Serbia, which by nature of things, because it has a dinar as a legal means of payment, really has the right to run an independent monetary policy, has control over money (and I will immediately say why I am asking a question), given the level of dollarisation i.e. Euroisation in our economy? The schizophrenic state in Serbia – citizens earn and spend in dinars and spend and lend loans in euro – gives me the right to have this dilemma, but also explains the payment deficit and the debt to pay foreign interest or debt so that we can create the necessary amount of exchanges for all those who buy them, spend, and do not earn. Where does this kind of protection of the banking system and the fascination of money come from in the first place? In an explosion of the credit market, uncovered investment and trust money, I quote, capitalism overcame both Soviet and Chinese communism and rocked Islamic societies from the ground up, expanded faster and faster than Islam after Muhammad's death. The IMF and the World Bank sent their missionaries to all countries, and their Latin, until then universal, who spoke a dark priestly caste dressed in dark colors, was incomprehensible to ordinary people, but people needed to not understand the language of mystery. They long for mystery, for priests, for shamans, who are in contact with great forces. Modern capital, as well as Latin in the Christian church, is based on deep mystery. Even bankers today don't know how much collateralised debt bonds are on the cube. That sanctity, money, and touch with it can transform you into this life and give you a great advantage over the other religions that offer you life only after life, which you can doubt, but a bank with a capital base of ten billion can give you a loan of 100 billion as a loan. Yet, with this money, people build real houses, drive real cars, eat real bread, or drink real wine. It is precisely that act of creation and a mystery worthy of God. That explains the specificity of banking as a matter of action. What is the reality today in Serbia, which is why I am taking the opportunity to speak to you as governor? The interest rate policy you are leading in a part where this is possible because of the mentioned dollarisation, mandatory reserve and open market operations have a certain lending policy as one higher cost of crediting the economy and the population by commercial banking. This and such a policy of interest rates, primarily on repo operations, causes selective lending and migration of banking into non-institutional forms, state bodies, agencies and ministries dealing with financing of housing loans, tourism, subsidies for agriculture. In this respect, the commercial banks are in one part shadow, and the commercial banks whose ownership structure has been changed in favour of those whose centrals in other countries shift their credit potential into open-market operations, extracting secure profits from the most non-nergistic businesses. The National Bank pays interest on the surplus money it itself printed and without an estimate of credit risk enables banks to without a credit rating, without a specific business-plan of credit users and with the engagement of a very small number of employees, trading with a central bank well and secure profit. Normally, someone who is so fully protected by fiscal policy, which does not go to your soul, who does not pay the VAT on financial services, who in 2002 has been suspended from financial transactions, who even on the advice of Mark Allen, an expert on Eastern Europe who works in the IMF (means, on his advice, but rejected from the political circles), to tax the balances of banks to which each state guarantees security and stable operating conditions, whose central banks guarantee the stability of the price and financial system, their objectives and orientation towards achieving these objectives do not return to the budgets of those countries that work for them and create stable conditions, will not easily transfer their protection and depravity to anyone else. I'm explaining why we've been waiting this long for the law on the protection of users of financial services. It is clear that, as in the European Union, in Serbia, we have the cartel business of banks. It is clear why we are in a hurry to be a member of the European Union, because it is punishable there. Expensive inside information is given information on how they were timely and in 2005, Austrian banks in the Austrian market agreed on the price of deposits, but also on the price of loans they granted. We've never had such a procedure before, nor such a punishment. Don't tell me that competition has led to lower, or at least comparable, interest on any kind of loan. No, we have a banking system that's secured, when it lends loans to apartments, to the National Credit Insurance Corporation; we have credit insurance as an instrument where credit insurance is paid, in addition to the bond, stocks, mortgages and countless historically proven and necessary instruments that the bank protects its placement. But as an innovation, we have countless instruments to protect this area by sending, which is most interesting to me, the message that the most desirable investment in the banking system is, and beyond that, speculative behaviour on the financial market, which is one Germany, which serves as a role model for each serious country, certainly does not seem to be based on the production and financing of its production activities. What are you as governor, except... I'll only be held for two members of the law, Art. 17th and 34th. Article 17 allows the price of immovableity to be expressed in euro. That's why I mentioned the dollarization, which bothers me as a system that doesn't allow your monetary policy to be effective enough to prevent inflation, to restore the dinar's basic value-saver measure. That is why I will talk about this member and about Article 34; what should be: means, in which the credit price is taken indexed in the currency, in which it will be valued and returned. Not as a possibility, but as a legal obligation. Not to write – it has rights, but to be literally and decadently defined. Before that, I want to ask you a question as governor. I wonder what we've been talking about all day today if, for example, one of the instruments that concerns citizens, and in your jurisdiction, I'm talking about a mandatory reserve, has completely lost its meaning, in terms of respect for a client and someone who has a savings or any deposit at a business bank? So there's a mandatory reserve that the bank would always have to pay deposits to one percent of depositors. I deliberately say one percent, because the rest is known to serve as plasma, on a hypothetical assumption that not everyone will come to raise their deposits at one point. However, that is not the case with us, all deposits are announced, even from the current account. I believe you know that, but I want to tell you in front of the public. The mandatory reserve is not in banks but at the National Bank of Serbia. Neither is the National Bank of Serbia, but the NBS is a foreign reserve. Why does that seem? Is this restoring trust for a citizen who should possibly not announce the rise of 500 or 1,000 euros, and all over this has to be announced? One question may seem laity to you, but it is very meaningful: why does the National Bank of Serbia, for example, not prescribe how much it must be kept? Why does it have to be kept at the National Bank of Serbia? You have confidence in the banking system, you expect citizens to trust them, and you don't trust them as the National Bank of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, when it's said, we've placed it on the world market, I even have doubts, and it's identical to being placed in repo operations. There have been some affairs I don't put on your mind, but to the National Bank and former governors, since someone was given something for a healthy liquidity. The question is, where did that money end? Maybe some promil really ended up in repo surgery. It doesn't matter, because that interest you pay on repo operations to banks in the final outcome increases the price of the paid money. So someone sits well behind the computer, takes off the cock thanks to your moves and decisions. On the other hand, the average citizen needs an invitation letter, announcing ten days in advance that he could come and raise his savings of, for example, 5,000 euros. Believe that it is often said to be the policy of the bank and the National Bank of Serbia. That's how direct communication protects bank officials from clients. The cases of the people who have experienced this are innumerable. Now, believe it or not, when you announce yourself for the next day at nine o'clock, a client comes to the counter at nine o'clock and they say (if you don't go that explanation of the "falling system", many of you, and me, have repeatedly raised your hair on your head) – well, we announced it to you at nine o'clock, but, you know, there's no money yet. How come there's no money, you told me to come at nine o'clock when the money came? No, that's not to be known, because someone might be attacking that money transfer, so they don't tip off anyone. For these frustrations experienced by clients not covered by this consumer protection law... It's not about some million euros, it's literally a thousand or a few thousand euros. Do you forget that in 2008, when the people rushed to raise, due to the uncertainty created by the overpouring of the financial crisis on our market, exactly the number of those savings that have up to 2,000 euros was the largest. A million savings have exactly that amount of money stored in banks. What I think may happen, and I ask you to do to your power not to, what Haek has been saying in time about the completely unregulated banks that do what he wants, can turn into a contract that will have as a condition that you can come up with your deposit of x-rays in x-days. Neither the client nor the bank is responsible for the launch of the clause, and when necessary, it is in the interest of everyone to initiate it. Even according to that claim, theoretically, it was easier to wait for the bank to sell the property, so it would make up for the deposit you have, because it's safer than having a certain day when panic might make you in trouble to lose your deposit. To conclude in a sentence, is it fair for banks to set aside a mandatory reserve, to have it at your place or somewhere stored as a foreign exchange reserve that is allegedly interesting, and we have never been able to find out where and at what price, and that one client cannot come and raise its 1,000 euros without an announcement? It should be borne in mind that a mandatory reserve should not be just an illusion that security exists. The illusion must be supported by concrete evidence that the bank is a safe place to keep the money from its depositors. Do we live in a country where you consciously allow two currencies to exist at the same time? Yes, we do. It's multiple dangers to us. The 20-billion-euro debt, the external debt, will continue to grow rapidly. That's what brings us all to extreme fear. Add to that huge foreign exchange savings, which exceeds five billion euros. Do I want to mention "cross Border" or cross-border loans, which have just come from the wrong policy of high mandatory reserves that have been accumulated by borrowing in the country? The banks that have branches here and the queens abroad were directing clients to go there to raise cheap loans because there was no such cost of mandatory reserve. It's private debts, someone says. No, sovereignty is something that one day can meet us, and what is the Vienna Agreement and credit exposure was just a transitional phase, how to overcome the protection of those we forced to do business outside. You have openly admitted, I very much respect, that the old savings "the casino of banks", for which even the state did not guarantee, but was directly or behind the gray curtain behind them, is now being returned by all Serbian citizens. I have every right to claim it, at least from a personal point of view. I've never saved in any such bank, even though I'm a bank banker by walk-in, and I'm not for something called casino bank, casino economy, but all Serbian citizens, including you, are paying back the Jedi, Dafina and any debts. Let's not let what the state guarantees or indirectly produces as an effect again be something that will have to come back from a budget this empty, which we know is in the situation. How can you handle this? You can, for example, do it the following way: make sure that the banks give up housing loans in dinars, Mr. Shoskovic, not act like banks should do it. If long-term loans to the population remain in the euro and the euro and businesses continue to borrow almost exclusively from Serbia, any move you take will not have any effect, because everything that is in the euro (we both know that it is called "pass-through" dollarisation) prevents any of your moves from having an effect. This user protection law will have so little effect. In that name, I ask you to do everything you can to restore the power of the dinar, but by restoring Serbia's power to the measures that are your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54780	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54781	Thank you very much for your attitudes. I would refer to some of them, first of all, those who are related to the bill itself, I think they're very logical. We were also thinking about this Article 17, so whether to stand this provision in Article 17, or to be corrected. I think there's space, there's logic for different solutions. Who controls money in Serbia? You asked that question first. What we have to say is that the dinar is controlled by the National Bank of Serbia. I'm sorry to have to move on to one theoretical aspect right now, but I think it's necessary to elaborate this question. The National Bank of Serbia, like any other central bank, controls the so-called It's basic money. There's a difference between the base money and the money supply, because the rest of the money in the offer is something that comes out of it. credit multipliers, or bank activities. The mandatory reserve is exactly the monetary policy instrument tasked with bringing together the underlying money controlled by the central bank and the total money in circulation resulting in, among other things, bank activity. So a mandatory reserve is an instrument that needs to control the credit multiplication that is done in the banking system. Citizens' deposits in banks are primarily guaranteed by the Deposit Insurance Agency, which, as you know, has a legal obligation to cover up to 50,000 euros per deposit in Serbia. It's one of those measures that was taken, if you remember, at the end of 2008, when there was a certain violation of citizens' trust in the domestic banking system. I'll remind you, that violated trust ended with our saving today of citizens who are higher than the pre-crisis level. You mentioned one digit, actually, the real figure is 7.1 billion euros, savings in domestic banks. This savings is primarily guaranteed by a mechanism used in the world, which serves as a guarantee of savings deposits. A mandatory reserve is set aside in Serbia in part and in foreign exchanges, but it is at foreign sources of bank financing. The purpose of this is by definition not to guarantee savings deposits. And, always a mandatory reserve on his accounts receives a central bank. So there's no possibility of making any exceptions, in the sense that the bank gets some kind of freedom so that the mandatory reserve can be kept in another way. The mandatory reserve, by definition of this instrument, works in a way that must be kept at the central bank, because it is de facto money that is withdrawn from circulation to control the credit multiplication process in the system. We are aware of this problem that you have pointed out, and we know that monetary policy is not effective in a system that has a high presence of another currency, when you have what you call a dollarisation, and we are actually more called Euroisation. Hence, the NBS wants to endure something that we like to call and in the public opinion is, I think, accepted as – dinarisation, not because we think it is conditional to say, the natural pawning of a central monetary institution that emits a national currency (but also because of that), but because of what you've been talking about, and that is that when we have too high exposure of domestic natural and legal persons to foreign exchange risks, when people, citizens and legal persons are making their incomes in dinars, and they have obligations that are related to another currency, then de facto all these citizens and all those legal persons take on themselves are taking foreign currency risks. The National Bank of Serbia is aware of the risk. That's why we promote dinarization, like one process that creates results. Over the last year, the total level of credit expressed in euro or related i.e. Indexed for dinar and euro movements fell in our banking system from about 76% to approximately 68-69%. So that dinarization we're talking about gives us results. I will remind you, at the beginning of this year, in the context of these measures that we are talking about, the National Bank of Serbia has also made a new decision on a mandatory reserve that has been stimulated by domestic banks to finance as much as possible in a quality way, therefore, with long-term funding sources, with capital and subsidized loans and, secondly, in dinars. Because, I'll remind you, the mandatory reserve on the dinar sources of funding that have a maturity of over two years is zero. This should be encouraging enough for banks to start funding in a way that will prevent them from transferring currency risk to citizens and the economy of Serbia. From there, this is one, I'd say, the effort we want to carry out continuously in our system. We know it's not easy, because we all carry psychological clues and memories of the situation when we had, on the one hand, massively widespread insolvency of the banking system, and on the other hand hyperinflation. It has greatly violated the trust that citizens and businesses have in their domestic currency. The task of the central bank, or the National Bank of Serbia, is to build this trust. The law we're talking about today, so the bill of this law, is one step in raising the confidence of the transactors in the financial system. Regardless of how many consider this bill to be "antibanking" or "in contrast to the interests of banks" etc., I underline the following the thesis: contrary to the interests of banks, it is also so that domestic customers of financial services come out of the process with the impression that they should no longer repeat it in their lives; if they once took credit, they would never take it again in life. This is not how the country's financial system is built and there is no perspective for banks, which I am sure some of the provisions of this law do not correspond much and do not respond at first sight. As for bank placements, you mentioned that banks can be in relatively passive activity, that the funds collected very often from foreign sources, which financed their activities in our country, are placed risklessly in the repo operations of the National Bank of Serbia. It's true, it was a situation a few years back. A large part of the bank's placement, disproportionately large, went to these operations. I will remind you that risk-free business banks can work in another way, which is to invest in state securities of value, which Serbia has been actively issuing in recent months, I would say all last year. This false yield, i.e. the time structure of interest rates that is important in each system, is increasingly developing. Not to go too far into theory, but you should be aware of the important difference between these two types of plasmas. When business banks invest in repo operations then the de facto is the sterilization of monetary aggregates, so money is withdrawn from the system and there is no new economic activity out of it. When banks and other investors invest in government securities, the money remains in the system, it is not sterilisation and, depending on how it is spent, new economic activity can be launched. Let us not forget that the funds collected through the transmission of securities from value on the market by the state do not have to be financed only by new public spending. This consumption can be an investment; infrastructure projects can be financed, as we have often talked about lately. So there's a lot ahead of us, if I can look back on what's not a direct topic of today's debate, to do in our system, to actually reduce the cost of funding. It is true that when inflation is a high National Bank, i.e. central monetary authority, it normally reaches its main instrument, which is the growth of interest rates. This growth in interest rates has a few things to do with it. One of them is, among other things, that the larger segment of placements is turning to finance, above all, these risk-free investments. This is not our long-term interest, but we must not forget that monetary policy instruments are limited to the reference interest rate, to the mandatory reserve and to foreign exchange interventions. These are tools that the NBS has been actively using, as we know, in recent months and years. We aim to return inflation to the target level as soon as possible, with as little cost as possible in terms of economic activity and employment in the country. The moment inflation returns to the target corridor, more serious conditions will be created for the relaxation of monetary policy. I would remind you that the National Bank of Serbia used the mandatory reserve instrument in a more restrictive way at the beginning of this year just to avoid excessively raising the interest rate, therefore, of the National Bank's reference interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54782	Right on line, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54783	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. There will be no replica, but indeed, I think of the National Bank of Serbia as something that is not an executive government and, if I may, I would ask one question: can we, with the levels, ways, models of behavior, come out of the most unusual crisis we are in? I expect from you as a man of profession, theory, youth creativity that, for example, you don't go with the measure that every foreign exchange inflow goes to the interbank foreign exchange market, where we're going to trade foreign exchanges for dinars and that, after that excess dinar sterilization, which has a high cost, contributes to inflation. I expect that your inflation prevention policy is one way to monitor the executive power with fiscal measures, not that you support their debt reprogramme measures at the moment we talk about being over-indebted and that we have no place to repay foreign loans. Indeed, consider this not as a remark, but as a question, a request to come up with some measures that may not have been seen anywhere, but even if they were, here, related to Article 17: in Spain, which is a member of the European Monetary Union and uses the euro as a currency, real estate prices are expressed in pesos. I thank you for saying you'll think about it, but there's a lot of good other people's practice that's different, it's not common, but it's suited to our circumstances. It is indeed the ultimate time that we use policy of course and interest rates in a way that is effective, not that it serves only as a school example of opportunities that in practice do not give the expected result. Personally, I wouldn't mind the National Bank's goals, but I don't think you're using enough options to check if your targets are hitting the target and I expect you to do it more often in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54784	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, nor are the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who would have the right to exercise his right to the word referred to in Article 96, I am concluding a principled search of the bill. I thank the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Dejan Soskic, for participating in the debate. There are days when it is indeed a pleasure to chair the sessions and participate in them, and I am pleased to say on behalf of the MPs who both agree and disagree, support and do not support the government, truly thank you for your participation. I've been setting a break for one hour. The work continues at 16.35 p.m. by opening a principled search on the amendment and addition of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. Thank you. [[After break – 16.35]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our session in the afternoon. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of People's MEPs (principles) You have adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which was submitted by 108 MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the Parliamentary Group SPS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would also like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Djuro Peric The PUPS Parliamentary Group. That's information for now on the sole authorised representative. Other parliamentary groups, whenever they consider it necessary, may notify of the appointment of an authorised representative or representative of a parliamentary group at any time, as long as the debate is under way in the principle of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups to submit their application for the word, because when agreed by Article 157(1). I shall inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I am opening a principle search, which means that, on the basis of Article 96(4), it is impossible for MPs' groups to continue to submit lists with the application of MPs for the word. Please do so so we can make a list of speakers for part of the session when MPs report on a word application. Therefore, pursuant to Article 157(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS thinks he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the following reason: the National Assembly Hall exhibits artistic photographs with motifs from countries in the region and one of these photographs as a country of origin lists Kosovo. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is a great insult to all MPs, regardless of which group they belong. From the point of view of the Constitution, as well as from the point of view of this Rules of Procedure, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be treated in any way or even as a form of artistic expression, as a country in the region. Accordingly, the SRS Parliamentary Group is urging the National Assembly president to do everything possible to get the picture taken with the text as soon as possible from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54787	The exhibition "South East Europe – People and Culture" really has a photograph of "Kosovo", in line with Resolution 1244, which is the legitimate position of this country. Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54788	Article 107. You are the chairman and your interpretation that you have just presented is absolutely embarrassing and destroying the dignity of this home. There is no official position by Serbia regarding Kosovo being designated as a special state in relation to Resolution 1244. You just made that up. We tolerate international relations, international gatherings and international relations titled "Kosovo" with an asterisk, i.e. star and call for UNSC 1244. We tolerate him. But within this home, within the framework of the state of Serbia, the interpretation that you gave is an absurd which is unacceptable and I think what you said deserves your apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54789	Ladies and gentlemen, this setting was in Brussels. The exact same setting is here. Please don't talk about this any further because you can't talk about the same content twice, Mr. Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: How do you know what I want to talk about? ) Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, beginning at 16.30 p.m., from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly, will be followed by the members of the Diplomatic Academy "Koca Popović" at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These are: Sanja Babić, Janko Prica, Djordže Rasevic, Jagoda Lazarevic, Biljana Mladenovic, Miljana Mandić, Natasa Nikolic, Milan Budimir, Milan Saldaić, Danko Runić, Jasmina Miljković, Dejan Marinković, Marija Petrovic, Ankica Kondić, Sonja Stojanović, Pave Zelic, Branko Lazić, Jelena Kolo, Ivan Jojkić, Srdjan Stošić, Tatjana Visacki, Olivera Niković, Milos Marojević, Dragana Đurašinović, Ana Milanović, Nenad Šipić, Ignjatović, Ksenija Milovanovic, Natasa Ivanov, Minja Tepačević Stojanović, Dunja Nešković, Jasna Marković, Jasna Ristić, Slavica Janković, Milan Ša Janović, Milan Šaljanović, Milan Šaljanić, Miljavić, Dragjavić, Dragić, Dragna Dragić and Dragna Dragić. Let's give a warm round of applause to our esteemed guests. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm taking the opportunity to welcome guests to the gallery. It's a good thing the members of the Diplomatic Academy are here to hear what's being said today in the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I am truly uncomfortable with your finding that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244 to Kosovo (so not Kosovo and Metohija, but Kosovo! ) treats as a country in the region. I'm sorry, that's not true. According to Resolution 1244, what Kosovo and Metohija can gain is, quote the provisions of that resolution, "a status of broad autonomy in the composition of the Republic of Serbia", not a country in the region. What does that mean? That tomorrow we will have motives from Vojvodina and writing – Vojvodina? We will have motives from southern Serbia, will write – southern Serbia? In the end, it will say -- Belgrade. So we will go further, and they will write, "Savaski Wreath", and they will write, "Rakovica, etc." What will be left of Serbia? So I urge you to remove that picture. That picture is a great shame, not because of motive, but because of the text that is listed there. So either remove the picture or remove the text, change it, let it say – AP Kosovo and Metohija, I could somehow understand it, but to write "Kosovo", as a country in the region, it's really scandalous! That really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54791	Of course, Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and, of course, it's an artistic photography and of course I've just given an explanation. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54792	I'd like to be the head of the parliamentary group on the subject of the agenda. Do you mind? Have we started or haven't we? If we didn't, I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54793	Please, the promoter hasn't gotten the word yet. I thought you were advertising the Rules of Procedure. You seem like someone who wants to advertise something.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54794	I can advertise that, too. I thought you'd give me your word because I don't know if the promoter even answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54795	The promoter called, of course. The proposer's representative has a thing. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54796	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. On behalf of the 109 MPs who signed this bill, I am authorized to say a few words and explain, first, the reasons why we are passing this law and, under two, the reasons for the solutions provided for in this law. We know that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed through the 1990 Constitution. In 2000, the law was passed; in 2004 the law was amended; the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2006. So, first of all, there was a need for this law to be brought into line with the provisions of the Constitution, and that is one of the reasons why this law is being passed. At the same time, constitutional matter has defined many issues in a different way than the 1990 Constitution, on the basis of which the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed, and has brought new institutes that needed to be defined more precisely by law. We, of course, want to point out that we are in favour of Serbia becoming a full member of the European Union as soon as possible. We are pushing for Serbia to bring its legal and political system into line with the standards of modern and developed countries of Europe. Of course, we are committed to developing our political and democratic system in line with the best models we see among the countries of developed Europe. What we wanted to do with this law was, first of all, start with the basic constitutional principles. If you allow me, I will paraphrasise them: sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their free elected representatives, and that no state body, political organisation, group or individual can take sovereignty from citizens; the rule of law is a fundamental assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights, and yet it is achieved by free and direct elections; it is guaranteed and recognised the role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens; political parties cannot directly exercise power or subjugate it to themselves; the National Assembly is the most representative body and institution of constitutional and legislative functions. At the same time, considering possible solutions, we're... (President: Mr. Krassic, I would ask you not to disturb Mrs. Kolundji. Never mind, I don't mind, talk about him, not me. What was the orientation of the MPs who took the initiative to approach the draft law on the one hand was the Action Plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to have, by June of this year, one of the other legislative activities that includes the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. As the adoption and implementation of this law do not require additional resources, MPs have decided to be the bearers of the initiative for the adoption of this law. I don't want to say it again now, all the MPs know, and I think the public knows enough about it, there was a working group formed here on the initiative of the President of the Assembly. In addition to the ruling majority MPs, we wanted to include in this job other representatives of political parties and parliamentary groups representing the opposition, with the intention of trying to come to a solution that we could all agree on, of course, without the illusion that it is possible to reach a general consensus. What we have agreed on is that the pre-election year should not change the rules of the election game and that the interventions to be carried out under this law should be only those of the interventions concerning compliance with the Constitution and the achievement of those standards that are in line with the Constitution, on the one hand, but also EU standards. It was also our starting point, but also those borders that were frames for what we wanted to do. Of course, those provisions that strictly apply the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are not controversial, or are in line with the provisions of this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I will pay more attention to those provisions, and this primarily concerns two members in this law who are amending the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which defines the way in which the term of office can be suspended before the time to which he is elected and, on the other hand, in which way and by which criteria are assigned to Members of Parliament after the elections have been made. It was these two topics that caused the most controversy and were the subject of the most fierce criticism in Serbia. Many NGOs dealing with electoral legislation have had objections to democratic principles in the way the law has regulated these two issues so far. At the same time, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia discussed these issues on two occasions. The Constitutional Court's decision is related to, so-called, the blank resignations, which were not founded in the legal system, but were part of political practice. So, the blanco resignations were assessed by the court as unconstitutional, believing that if the holder of sovereignty is a citizen and if he gives his voice to a representative of the people, then one third cannot decide on behalf of the MP who received the citizens' trust whether someone will be an MP or not. The second question is the order in which the mandates are assigned. There is a basic principle that if the elections are direct, then the parties are someone who creates the political will of citizens, who offers citizens their electoral programmes, but also offers candidates, that it is the obligation of political parties to know not only which list will receive the largest number of votes, but who will be represented by the political party in Serbia's parliament on the basis of the number of votes. It only meant that there was one single way in the system that has Serbia, so we have a proportional system and Serbia is one electoral unit, and that it is possible to do so by assigning mandates on the basis of the order on the list that parties participate in the elections offer to citizens. As the Constitution defined these questions, we suggested that the MP could only resign personally and no one else on his behalf could have his mandate and could not resign. At the same time, we have proposed a solution in which the parties establish the lists, but after the vote was made and after the vote, and mandates are assigned in order on those lists. Of course, all these solutions are exposed to attacks on both sides. Some believe that these solutions are not a firm enough guarantee that there will be no subsequent interference of parties in the process that was carried out after the elections. Others argue that these solutions (in practice there may be arguments) can largely create a problem when campaigning, as regards the motivation of individuals, as well as citizens to come out to vote. Because if it is known that on the basis of the number of votes, candidates will be set strictly per list, it can be a factor that will demotise candidates on political parties' lists to engage seriously in the campaign and perhaps even citizens who support that political party will demotise and vote because they will assume that their candidate, if positioned low on the list, will not be elected. Again, I want to repeat, what is crucial to us is the Constitution, and from that we are leaving, and that is where all the intervention we have proposed ends. That's what the Constitutional Court decisions tell us. Anyone who claims these decisions are unconstitutional should take a look at the Constitutional Court decisions and see that the Constitutional Court's decision is in the greatest agreement with the solutions we've offered here. Of course, if, in the context of this debate and the debate in particular, there are suggestions that can contribute to the improvement of this text, we are certainly ready to listen carefully, but what matters to us is that the principles on which we have formed these solutions cannot essentially be changed. Not to mention, in this process we have consulted both the European Commission and the Venice Commission, we are not hiding it. We have honestly spoken from the very beginning of this process that we will do so, considering, if we are already doing one job and we want to achieve the goal, and this goal is, among other things, to gain candidate status, that it is unreasonable to do this job without consulting with those whose qualifications and evaluation we expect in the end, as well as to confirm that the work we are doing is in line with what we ourselves have committed to our commitment to becoming a member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54797	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters, Mr. Bosko Ristic and Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54798	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 27. I think you're having a very nervous session this afternoon. I don't know what affected you. Now let me explain to you what you've violated the Rules of Procedure. In this room, it happens all the time, when an MP discusses, comment, throws aside, and that's not a big problem. I just have to remind you that we've been giving great verbal support to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji every time in her speech she called for a quote from some constitutional provision, counting on something strange to happen, that they realized that there was a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it is binding. We tried to focus Mrs. Kolundji on Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the MPs. It is a constitutional obligation for the National Assembly to regulate the conditions under which the MP can make the mandate available to his party. It's a constitutional norm. The constitutional norm is being held throughout today's debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. As for those parts of my predecessor's free composition, that the Constitution is unconstitutional, judge it yourself. I warn you, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure again and warn me only, and I plead with the Constitution. If that's your criterion, then you'll have to introduce listening devices, so whoever says one word, warn each one of them, not just me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54799	You don't need any listening devices, we all heard how much you disturbed Mrs. Kolundji as she spoke. I'm really asking you not to do that anymore. From the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ruzic appeared, and then Mr Aligrudic. Mr. Rose, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54800	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs of the SPS view this amendment and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs as a transitional solution, but also as a democratic maturation precisely in relation to the provision of Article 102. The constitution, which some of my esteemed colleagues mentioned earlier. We believe that one such bill is based on what is the intensity of every constitution and every law, which is that it norms political practice, social practice, all those processes that happen in one society. I'm saying that we view this as a transitional solution, for the simple reason that it's still not mature enough to change the whole election legislation in the pre-election or election year. Someone will say that we are a little late, someone will say that there is time, but in any case, there is one gentlemen's agreement, since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia, that no changes in electoral legislation are made in the election year. On the other hand, political practice has denied us that he is a member of 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia through the necessary application. For two and a half years, the institute, called the "Blanko Resigns", has not been used in some legal context, which is sufficient evidence that we have survived a democratic maturation. As sufficient evidence is that we have introduced that provision as the highest legal act in the 2006 Constitution because we wanted to preserve democratic institutions, to prevent parliament from becoming a political market where some tycoons or some stakeholders could falsify Serbia's electoral will. It is also important to respect what the Constitution says, which is that the holders of the sovereignty or sovereignty of our country are citizens of Serbia. That's why it's important that those who are going to criticise this proposal, which may be the result of criticism, and I think there are some indiscretions that we're going to point out, and that's why I'm saying it's a transitional solution... But we must also take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which deals with this issue, above all the issue of order on the lists of political organisations, coalitions or groups of citizens, and thus gives us an imperative obligation to correct these amendments and additions to the law. The Constitutional Court also considered the issue under the Law on Local Elections in 2008. He also treated this issue in relation to the Law on the Selection of MPs. What in political practice, if we do not look at norm and legal form, is a difficult environment, is that, above all, there may be some problems in technical terms in pre-election coalitions, mechanisms to implement the mandate and redistribution. It concerns that formal act, but that redistribution, not to be dishonest to each other and to the citizens, will practically be completed by the act of handing over that list when we go to the polls. What we have done before after the elections will now be done before the elections, which is much more transparent, fairer, more honest and honest with those we are running for, but also towards the citizens of Serbia, whom we are sending a clear message. Some parties will say those who are lower on the lists proposed to join the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may be demoted. As far as the Socialist Party of Serbia is concerned, I can say that serious parties cannot have a problem with this, because on a list of 250 quality, reference people you can simply subscribe to citizens of Serbia's personnel base. If this parliament were to count thousands of MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia would not have a problem with the thousands of quality people offering and sending a clear message to both the public and the citizens of Serbia for whom it is defined. In that part, we must consider not only this imperial norm and the Constitutional Court's decision, but also what of the political parties it has. When we talk about the rules of the election game, the rules of the election game are something that needs to be defined, normized, agreed, we should have at least the smallest common denominator in this regard, but what we cannot talk about without taking account of it, is that, on several occasions, the decision of the Constitutional Court and Article 84. Law on election of MPs. What would be much better for the citizens of Serbia, is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that law, in a changed form, on local elections, which would make it much easier to address this problem now and the republican elections in one satisfactory way. As for one new qualitative shift, I must say that it is very important, I think that most political parties in parliament support it, that the representatives of the less represented sex, or ladies, according to these amendments and additions to the law, will find themselves definitely at a certain percentage in the benches of this House, this House. I hope that provision that must be at least 25% will not mean that there will be 25%, but much more. I don't think anyone can be against it except those who don't know the constitutional provision that speaks of gender equality in our country. What they are are certain reserves, and I am the proposer of this law... I will note that the SPS - JS Parliamentary Group is not one of the legislators of this bill, but what is important is that the Proposer himself expressed the willingness to take all those suggestions that are in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and with the opinion of the European Commission, but above all the Venice Commissions, can be taken into account and become an integral part of this law. In relation to these proposals and to the proposals of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as well as some other parties, both the PUPS and the Unity of Serbia, as well as other parliamentary groups, if they are accepted, and are in line with what is the intensity and opinion of the Venice Commission, but also the complementary decisions of the Constitutional Court, I believe that, in this way, these amendments and the additions of the Law will norm not the political need, but the political reality that will await us in the next election, in the next election cycle. In no way can we assess that this is one round, system-based legal approach; this is only an initiative or initial capital for the clear, systematic formulation of electoral legislation, which, I am confident and hopefully, we all hope will follow in the SPS after the next election cycle, or the next Republic elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54801	Thank you. Since all representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, have actually called, we will go from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. Mr. Djuro Peric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54802	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs by emergency procedure stems, in my opinion, too much from the European Commission's recommendation to speed up the status of Serbia's candidate for EU membership, as it was found that the Law on selecting Members of Parliaments should be amended by June 2011. In addition, this law aligns the provisions of the Law on the Selection of National MPs adopted in 2000 and 2004, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with the laws governing individual issues of importance for the selection of MPs (Court Regulation, the Law on the Single Election List, the Law on Political Parties, the Law on Administrative Courts). With these amendments and additions to the proposed law, our political and legal system is more fully in line with European principles and values and confirms the principle that citizens are holders of sovereignty, so they are given the constitutional right to decide in the elections on which candidates will represent them, thus removing elements of indirectity in the elections. The end of the term of office of the MP before the end of the time he was elected represents the actual and freely expressed will of the MP and the personal act of the directly elected representative of the citizens and thus is consistently applied to the constitutional principle that no one can claim sovereignty from the citizens. Article 14 The draft law shall be complemented by a member of the 88th existing law, by adding a new position 2 after Article 1 to which the MP resigns to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certified in accordance with the law (i.e. the paper), within three days of the day of the confirmation. Instead of the current position 3, on which the date of the end of the term of office was established only at the first next session of the Assembly, it is specified that the date of termination of the National Assembly's term of office shall be determined immediately after the receipt of the notice of reasons for the termination of the session's term of office, i.e. at the first next session, as earlier. In this way, the period of the blank resignations of the Members of the People ends in fact. Of course, it is important to change the law and to amend Article 15 the provisions of Article 92 of the Law in a consistent manner by giving the principle of a parliamentary mandate according to the order of candidates on the electoral list. A 2nd member's position in 92 under which the mandate belonged to a political party whose electoral lists were selected by a member of parliament who had suspended his mandate. Instead of such a solution, it has been proposed that when the MP ceases his term before the time to which he was elected, the term of office shall be assigned to the first next candidate on the electoral list to whom the term of office has not been assigned. The only deviation from the order on the electoral list is the consequence of the obligation for the less represented gender on the electoral list to be presented in a certain percentage in the National Assembly by filling the less-represented gender on the electoral list with the candidate of the same gender from the same electoral list. Otherwise, Article 8. The bill sets out the solution of Article 40a of the Law so that among each four candidates on the electoral list there may be more than one candidate of the less represented gender on the list, with strict consideration being that there must be at least 30% of the members of the polling list. With regard to the proposed changes in Article 92. The laws set out in Article 15. The draft law, the PUPS Parliamentary Group has proposed an amendment to this article, which would establish that a principle is applied on the lists of party coalitions, analoguely to this for a less-represented sex, in the event that a member of the coalition ceases to be a member of the parliamentary seat of the MP to be filled with the next candidate from the list of the same member of the party coalition whose member of Parliament has suspended the term of office. We think that this is quite logical, because otherwise, relations would completely change in the party coalition with regard to the possible number of MPs of individual members. It seems that, when they heard publicly about the bill on such an approach, they agreed in a large number of parliamentary groups and positions and oppositions. Otherwise, this amendment of ours will be said more in the course of an individual debate. Among other things, it is important to point out that the bill sets out that elections for MPs instead of, as so far, the president of the National Assembly are being called by the President of the Republic in the future. Also, the newspaper is that from the day of the call to the election day, it cannot last less than 45 days or more than 60 days, and so far it has been 90 days. One of the important issues is eradicating the majority of the current article 84 and formulating a new member, according to which RIK will no later than ten days after the date of publication of the total election results, all the mandates received from the electoral list will be assigned to candidates in order on the election list, starting with the first candidate on the list. This solution is in line with the Constitutional Court's view that the order of candidates on the list obliges the applicant of the electoral list to assign the seats to candidates in order to which their names are listed on the electoral list. The proposed solution is also in line with the joint opinion of the Venice Council of Europe and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which is otherwise criticised by an existing member of 84, as it allows political parties to choose after the election on an arbitrary basis which candidates from the electoral lists will become MPs, limiting the transparency of the system and political parties to give a much stronger position than candidates on the electoral list. The PUPS Group hopes that you will accept its amendment to Article 15 in relation to Article 92. The law, in that case in the voting day, will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54803	Thank you. The People's Messenger Balint Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54804	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM advocates that citizens have the right to vote, not just the right to vote. On the other hand, we are in favour of the free mandate of the MPs, i.e. representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the terms of office are concerned, we know that the mandate can be free or imperative in theory. In the case of an imperative term of office, the links between voters and representatives are legal and in this case the link does not cease by the act of choice. With an imperative term of office, voters have the opportunity to give mandatory instructions. Representatives have the duty to report, and there is a possibility of recalling. This type of mandate was characteristic of Europe until the 18th century, it was characteristic of the permanent congregations. Today, there is a constitutional solution in certain countries of Europe that explicitly prohibits any imperial mandate. Such a constitution has, for example, the Republic of France. In the free term, the relationship between voters and representatives is not legal but political. This kind of mandate is characteristic of almost all of Europe's states, but, as I said earlier, when we make a classification for free and imperative mandates, then we take into account the character of the connection between voters and representatives. In Serbia today, unfortunately, there is a party imperative mandate. This relationship is not political but is legal, but there is no between voters and voters i.e. The MP, but between the MPs and the party on whose list the candidate entered the National Assembly and gained his mandate. As far as the 18th century national sovereignty is concerned, he rests on the theory of national sovereignty. The essence of this theory is that the MP is not only a representative of his constituents but is a representative of all citizens, i.e. the entire nation. Unfortunately, today we can conclude that Serbia is a practice called the so-called "Charlie". Blanco's resignations went a few steps backwards and compared to solutions from his constitutional history. According to Serbia's 1869 Deputy Constitution, the MPs were not only representatives of those who chose them, but of the entire people. That, unfortunately, is not what we can say in today's state, because there is a party imperative mandate. Of course, we in the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians recognise and respect the role of parties in the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, but that does not mean that the mandate should belong to the party. Moreover, the mandate cannot belong to the party, the mandate belongs to the mandater, i.e. People. As we know, in Article 102, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the MP is free to, under certain conditions, unrelentingly put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal he was elected as a MP, but the question is whether the MP really has the possibility, does he have the right to have his mandate? We do not think that he has the right in such a way to have the mandate, because the freedom of office of MPs is a public function, and it is not subjective to the right of the MP, contract or otherwise, to be able to dispose of. Here in recent weeks, many have been calling for the opinion of the Venice Commission, the opinion of the European Commission, and that is, of course, entirely legitimate. I do not think there is anything controversial about the fact that the National Assembly has asked for the opinion of the Venice Commission and the European Commission, because of what full members of the EU are doing, and let alone the countries that are yet to become, which we hope will only become a candidate for full membership in the EU in the near future, but we believe that they are of much greater importance to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm going to move on to this other topic, about what I said -- that, according to us, citizens should have the right to vote, not just the right to vote. The Constitutional Court of Serbia held three discussions on these issues that we are discussing today in the National Assembly; I am referring to the order on the list, i.e. the distribution of the seats of MPs. Serbia's Constitutional Court's first decision dates back to 2003, the second since 2010. However, it was the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Law on Local Elections, but from the reasoning of that Constitutional Court's decision in an unequivocal way, we can conclude what the Constitutional Court's intention was in relation to the mandate, whether it was a parliamentary or parliamentary mandate. The third decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, concerning the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, was made on 14 April 2011. This decision is particularly important because today a vision is being created that only now will the National Assembly handle the issue of availability in a different way, that is, the issue of order on the list, that is, how the mandates are assigned. This is simply not the case, because on 14 April the Constitutional Court assessed in its decision that Article 84. The law on the election of MPs is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This means that this member of the law was abolished on April 14th of this year. So now, the National Assembly will not determine, or introduce a solution to which list applicants will have to respect the order of candidates on the list, but already today, by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's decision. Which is why I say that we advocate the right to vote, not just for the right to vote, or for the right to vote? I will quote two or three sentences from the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision of 14 April 2011. It explains: "Because it is not an obligation to respect the order of candidates on the election list, the political party is essentially making a choice of MPs, ruling the parliamentary mandates attached to the list. In this way, according to the Constitutional Court's assessment, not only does the principle of direct elections collapse itself, but the idea of a national team, i.e. citizens, is being devised. Starting with these reasons, firmly representing the view that individual parliamentary mandates, without any exceptions, are obtained only in accordance with the order set out in the electoral list, the Constitutional Court found that the provisions of Article 84. The laws are not in accordance with the Constitution. “ In the voting day, we will not make the decision that order must be respected, but we will come up with a solution, or we will formulate a provision by which RIK will assign mandates to take care of the order on the election list exclusively, within ten days of the end of the election. We think that's the right thing to do. Once again, I say, citizens need to be given the right to vote. I'd like to get back to the question of the so-called. Blanco's leftovers. I was just quoting Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in some ways introduced the blanco legacy institute. Of course, we, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, will not come across the term of the blank resignation, but it is envisaged that MPs, under certain conditions, have their mandate. I just said that, according to us, an MP cannot have a mandate because the term of office is not a contract. The term of office does not belong to the Messenger, but to the people. On the other hand, when I mentioned Article 102. I would like to mention some other members, which are: Article 2 which speaks of sovereignty being initiated by citizens who exercise it through their freely elected representatives; Article 3 speaks of the rule of law being exercised through free and direct elections; Article 5 defines that political parties cannot directly exercise power or subjugate it to themselves; Article 52 speaks of the elections being free and direct. When we look at these four provisions of the Constitution, on the one hand, and on the other hand, Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we can conclude that there is a conflict, in some ways, between these constitutional provisions. It is indisputable, at least in our opinion, that constitutional provisions concerning sovereignty, the rule of law, political parties and that the elections are free and directly broader reach and more general meaning than Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These constitutional provisions on sovereignty, elections, the rule of law form the foundations of our constitutional structure. As a result, we believe that Article 102 has changed the character of the mandate, as it results in the MP representing a party, and this does not result from these other fundamental and essential constitutional provisions, which are broad-ranging. When I spoke earlier about a free term, I mentioned Serbia's 1869 Deputy Constitution, and I said that this practice that exists in Serbia is a step backwards compared to that solution 140 years ago. I could give a similar example of respecting the order from the list, that is, respect for the principles of free and direct elections. According to the 1888 Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbia (then King Milan, if I am not mistaken), individual mandates were scheduled to be assigned in order on the election list. It was a democratic achievement 130 years ago. Unfortunately, Serbia will reintroduce this solution only now, i.e., as I said earlier, it was introduced a few weeks ago when the Constitutional Court abolished Article 84. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. For all these reasons, we will support the proposed solutions in the voting day. We look forward to the fact that after all these years, Serbian citizens will have the right to vote again, not just the right to vote and that the mandate will be free. Of course, we also support a solution whereby, among each four candidates, at least one candidate should be a member of the less represented sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54805	MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54806	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us from the Liberal Democratic Party, this debate only makes sense because the people who listen to us now can see on this case how right we are and how much damage this country pays because most of the other actors in the political life of the country refuse to accept such a thing. This is not a topic for our party, Mrs. Kolundzija, but this was a topic for both us and for all those who supported the constitutional reform in the country in 2006, because it was clear then how far we would reach looking for a format for this society that would preserve everything that was bad, which is why society itself was destroyed. Instead of answering what political system we want in 2006 through dialogue with citizens, through every kind of debate, to a mechanism that will protect civil liberties and human rights, to a life perspective that needs, on the one hand, to satisfy the need of this society to preserve its relationship with Kosovo and, on the other hand, to preserve the possibility that it develops on development grounds, we have decided to steal ourselves, cheat, plant. And here we are in 2011, discussing parties in such a way, actually just supporting the imitation of the political life that this country needs to convince that we are actually changing through the European integration process. The moment the Constitutional Court, or whatever it might have gotten from it, put out the power of Article 84. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs from 2000, each party's debate on the subject has been overcome. At five years later, the Constitutional Court said what our party said, but the majority who did not support the Constitution, say, not agreeing to resign as a form of political control of the terms of office, even though you and I, in addition to why resignations were entered into the Constitution, have the obligation to speak openly here. The Constitutional Court's decision and this reform of the law does not lead us to Brussels, leads us to the flea market, Mrs Kolundžija, where parliamentary mandates will be resold, and governments will collapse as they were destroyed in 2003, when our parliamentary majority lost to buying MPs, or as was the case in 2005, and something like that is not allowed, among other things, to such a rigid norm. So instead of Brussels, we arrive at the market, where all local self-government is located from the moment the Constitutional Court laid down its resignation as a form of protection of the parliamentary mandate, which was also provided for by the country's laws. Why does it matter? Because we have to focus on putting the point. The reform of the political system cannot be reduced to removing something that is solely due to rough internal misunderstandings, abuses, manipulations that have led to a mutation, which is unsustainable, political life in this country. What is a democratic order resting on? Parliament. What is the status of our Parliament? With all our efforts to raise this parliament to the level at which it must be in an ambitious democratic and modern society, we have failed. I can count my fellow MPs on my fingers, whether they are from the government or the opposition, who are satisfied that they are MPs. This dissatisfaction does not result from the fact that they themselves are doing something wrong, but rather from the impression that cannon flesh is the failed policies that brought us here this late afternoon to discuss ourselves. What is the first problem of our policy? We don't have people in politics. We don't have people in politics. We don't have company in politics. The ones you mentioned asking for some argument about what you're doing, because I guess it's rude to say here that if this country wants to go to Europe, it has to agree to the rules of Europe because it won't fit seven hundred million people to the needs of us seven million... You mentioned the Constitutional Court and NGOs who criticised the right of parties to abuse the will of citizens. I'll tell you that the loudest NGO was the one who wrote the law with that norm, I mean the CESID. The loudest. They wrote it. So, who's running politics in this country? NGOs or parties? Constitutional court. This is an explanation of the Constitutional Court. Here is a professor of law in the parliamentary group, he will discuss more in detail the sustainability of the constitutional court's arguments. I will just quote you a nonsense, and therefore I am not happy: “The Court feels that the disputed way of obtaining an individual parliamentary mandate is in a very tense relationship with the constitutional principle of gender equality. “ We, Mrs. Kolundjia, need to tell the truth that we are left to ourselves and that, fortunately, if we have the ability to formulate our goals, we can count on the support of those who are successful and who feel obliged to help us in this work, but cannot finish it for us, which is the European Union. The first problem with this reform is that it is actually free of content. You know that, I know that. We participated as much as we could in the work of this group, looking for a model that could satisfy what the political life in the country needed, and these are the people in politics. First of all, one of the nonsense is that citizens don't know who they're voting for. You know what, maybe at one time, at the time of pros Đuric, it was important to be part of some herd, but I wouldn't underestimate this society, citizens vote for politics. We propose to them Serbia in NATO, not Ivan Andric, who will take them to NATO by hand; education in the focus of the work of the future government, not Professor Rangelovic as someone who will teach them. They're voting for politics. In the past, Mr. Pastor spoke of it, without media, without direct communication, it was necessary to know someone personally so that you could influence the decisions that someone would make on your behalf. But we need to look into the future, to now create a political system that will be able to withstand the pressure that the country will be exposed to, whether we want to admit it or not sooner or later, better before; pressure on the essential reforms that must be implemented, from which we can run, but then it will be harder, it will be harder to reach the goal and, of course, it will be more expensive. The overall reform of the political system, that's what we needed. I want to tell you, because I think it's important to say that we can't pass laws like this without agreeing to an environment where millions are watching us. By our nature, we are responsible for our actions and we have the right to care for our children until their age. Neither you nor I, nor anyone in this room has the right to believe that he is obliged to live the lives of millions of people. If this society wants to have parliamentary democracy, then it must assume its share of responsibility. This responsibility that we expect and we are now bound by a very clear attitude. With this decision that we will now formalise, following the Constitutional Court's decision, we will only remove one obligation from the list of remaining jobs whose conclusion is a condition for obtaining EU candidate status. What are we gonna lose? You'll lose, Mrs. Kolundjia, the possibility that we've always used to take one John Doe, one year ago. A person for all of Serbia appears in parliament. When will a Kenan Hajdarevic return to the Serbian Parliament? When will one Judith Popovic, who is the vice president of the Assembly, arrive? When will a Bojan Djuric arrive at 32 years of age? Ivan Andric? They arrived because they had good results in a country where the work criterion was never evaluated; we permanently distanced it from politics and that's a fact. "Be lying down to the bread to eat you," "No one can pay me as little as I can work," "Be an air-conditioned person and subject", these are the principles on which we think we are building modern Serbia, capable of achieving goals that generations before us have failed to achieve, to catch a connection with the time we belong. The only truth. Who's to blame? Can those who say - can't do what it is? No, I don't. It's not Stefan File's fault. It is not the European Commission's fault. It's not even the Constitutional Court's fault. It's us again. We're too late, Mrs. Kolundjia. A hundred big questions, big problems, the kind of country we want to live in. Do we want to live in a country where it is possible to run a policy that has ruined society for twenty years, and then move on to the second row of parliament and be free of all kinds of responsibility for what you've been doing? That's the system we've established. Do we want to live in a country, the only country on the planet, where the question arises where the parties get the money? The parties can get money from the budget or from whoever has the money, there's no third time. Why are we lying to each other? Do we want to live in a country where we are condemned or a president who will be a clown or a prime minister who will be? Twenty years through this presidential and prime minister system we have, practically, one great experience: either we had a strong president and a cartoon from every other institution, or the president was a cartoon, and then the prime minister was doing jobs for himself and for the president, so we didn't have a state. Constitutional reform in front of us, with a vision of a country where our children should come to happiness, because, as I recall, we've been doing these jobs for 15 years. We no longer have the right to think of ourselves as people who will be contemporaries of these ideas, but as someone who may be their predecessor, and thus we can be top satisfied. So, the first problem, and this country needs to know, of course it's pointless to say in 2011, we're not going to vote for this law because we said five years ago it's Wednesday, so we don't agree with you who say it now. We'll vote for the law, we'll vote. Because we are voting against our will, by choosing between two evils, we become the actors of the most three-way, the most retrograde political system in Europe, in a country that needs the most dynamic development. What's that gonna mean? First, to respond to this nonsense and to say that it is a devastating truth that you are committed to populism and demagogy, first of all, you have allowed parliament to be destroyed, that the parties, which themselves are very responsible for losing every credibility, and so you have made us part of that concept, as much as we think that is not our place. Instead of the parties that were arbitration after the elections by choosing their representatives in parliament – some may have sinned, but I am convinced that we have always made the right decisions because we respected the result and nurtured the party's competition – we are now going to get these changes to the parties that are devising the elections as such. Because, you know, when you come and get a fixed menu in a restaurant, it's a bad kitchen. So instead of those who cheat on you, but maybe sometimes they're good, we'll have a cuneiform at the beginning. Before the election is called, the mandates are divided. As a result - 250 people will be in parliament, others do not even have the opportunity to hope for such a thing. Who are these people? We hope, for example, 20-25 on our list. In her zenith, Mrs. Kolundjia, your party has had 60 mandates. And to say that people will appreciate what you're doing, but we can hardly be objective, I believe you'll have over 60 after the next election, let's say there's going to be 80, what about the other 170 candidates doing the Democratic Party? Not because there are no 170 quality people; as Ruzic said, we have certainly in every party, at least in our beliefs, more than those we are running for; it is always a problem to close those lists because you tell someone – wait four years for your chance. But what about the 170 municipalities in which the living people we expect to vote, who we address through billboards, videos, write letters, make rallys and say we reform electoral legislation, now you choose your own representative? And they say, "Where is my representative, he is in such a place that not even his support for the Chinese Communist Party's supporters is sufficient to enter parliament?" There, that's what we do, left to ourselves. Well, this isn't your problem. Another important question, the question of resignations. You know what, from a bad solution, or from a solution that opened up the possibility of abuse, is much worse-than-absorbed freedom, which we're going to pay too much. It's much worse. We don't need WikiLeaks to figure out what was going on in this country behind the Information Act, right? We don't need another embassy's dispatch tomorrow to figure out what was going on here when Radovan Karadzic was arrested. Don't make up anything you can't make up. The country has not broken its European or anti-European orientations. In this House, two-thirds of the MPs voted in favour of the energy agreement, which made us the only European colony in the 21st century, and we barely put together the majority to support the agreement with the EU, which has left us at least a minimal chance of hoping to reach the point where this country will be an expression of what is best in it. How will the next government be made, and who will make it? You don't have to whisper. I'd like it to be us, and I'm speaking plainly about it. Instead of what we'd like, first, we need to convince the people we need, so we can succeed, and this is not the way to do something like that. We're sorry that our proposals came from experience... I've got it too much, and if I wanted to leave something behind, then it would be that experience. We weren't in a position because of this superficial relationship to the problem. Mrs. Kolundzija, only for the topic of electoral legislation, which is essential for this country, we didn't have a representative in front of the Venice Commission. When judicial reform was the topic of the government delegation was there. She talked about it. How did we explain to Europe our "specificities", our motives, how did we convince her that she needed sensitivity to solve the problems Europe points to? By faxing a single solution, which for Europe, for example, was not disputed in Montenegro, but with a bunch of "excuse", "understand", "we haven't arrived", "tomorrow", "believe", "so is" no one had any understanding of such an idea anymore. Facts. Now we have to make, in addition to these decisions, the law, some other decisions. They don't just regulate the laws of our relationship. I guess there are other standards. If we're defined for democracy, let's see if there's a code that regulates our mutual relations. What are we going to do after the election when we have problems in the parliamentary groups that appear to us all over Serbia? We have a problem, it doesn't matter what municipality... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... When the councilman comes and says, "You know what, I don't have a job, my kids are hungry, they offered me to move in with them, I'm yours, I'll bring you a hundred votes in the election." I'm sorry, 20 minutes is a little short for all this. If it's important, this is what we voted for in 2006 when we said no to Kostunica's constitution. This is the price we all pay together: and we, because we were not successful, and others who agreed to those solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54807	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54808	If the time is up, I can do it tomorrow. (President: we still have two minutes to conclude today. () Very short. It is difficult to argue with the fact that someone claims that reforms are too slow or that they are superficial. I only wish someone could tell us what the formula is to make it faster and deeper. So, who's it with that you can do it with? I'm sure those of us sitting here today are ready to do it that way. At the same time, if this is just a small intervention on the problem which should be essentially cut, then a question is asked for many before us why they did not do so – and for us, Mr Jovanovic, you and me – 2001, 2002 and 2003. So we've always obviously done what was possible under the circumstances that were very often the most cruel against our intention to pull deep cuts. If the speed we're going is possible, if there's anything that can speed us up, it should definitely be welcomed. But if there is a denial of movement at all because speed is not enough, then, I'm afraid, we have a bigger problem than moving like this as we move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54809	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54810	Mrs. Kolundjia, you're wrong. This is not Serbia's maximum. I'm even sure it's not the maximum of your ruling coalition. It seems to me that this is an neglected question, a problem that at one point appeared in front of everyone, and then artificially raised to the level of the fate issue of our society. Actually, it's not like that. I was in a similar position in 2002 when this same Europe put pressure on us about changing the criteria for selecting the President of the Republic. Then there was a 50% census in the first round. There was a lot of pressure, a lot of pressure. Different arguments have been offered. We have found democratic interests and have defended these democratic interests by means of democratic means, by convincing the quality of our arguments to this Europe. Europe didn't put this on the table, we're missing it now, we don't have the law now. We don't have the law, we don't get this law. We're short of control mechanisms after the election. I don't want anyone to buy me an MP because he has money or because that MP has to sell his life because he can't live otherwise. We believed in our MPs, and they never converted their resignations, but I know very well what the pressures that follow are like for anyone who wants to change the country. I know what the pressure of a company that has 850,000 euros in gross profits in Serbia can be when the issue of change of excise policy is put on the agenda, one where the Russian company in Serbia has 20% more freedom than in Russia from which it comes. I'm not naive, it's a threat to democracy. And this is a neglected problem, sloppyness. I'm not telling you anything personal. No, we had a good Law on selecting ambassadors, a good Republic Election Commission; they made decisions that were least controversial, of all decisions made in Serbia. So, 50,000 votes difference Nikolic – Tadic in 2008, no one said a single word about the results of the Republic Election Commission, and then we agreed to politics and demagogy that people working on the commission are being satanized because of the daily and salary they receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-11-0.u54811	Time, both for the session and for your exposure. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Due to the great interest of a large number of MPs to participate in the Round Table on the Law on the financing of political activities after the opening of the session and the establishment of the quorum, we will have the opportunity to participate there in the work. At 12:30, we'll be back in this room, we'll continue our work by 2 p.m., and then there'll be a break. Most likely, tomorrow we'll extend the time of work to finish this agenda. I thank you for your participation in the work. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record, there are 80 MPs present, but apparently there are more of us, so I ask you to establish the quorum. I find that 84 of us have reached conditions for the work of the National Assembly. As I informed you yesterday, in accordance with Article 90, I am setting a break until 13.00 hours for the interest of a large number of MPs to participate in the Round Table on the subject of the law that we will discuss when we finish this session, therefore, the law on the financing of political activities. At 1:00, we'll continue our work.
