ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63050	I expected you at the beginning of the session to tell us when you were planning this session about events in Kosovo and Metohija, as you can see what's going on, but obviously you can't even open this topic. If I went back to this amendment, I wouldn't have jumped the pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63051	Mr Krasic, you know that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, with a certain request, came before all of us and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be working on a declaration, or text of the act that will be forwarded to us, and that we will most likely have that session by the end of the week. I can't talk about the exact term until I get a proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63052	All I care about is how it's gonna stop what's beating up Serbs in that declaration. Well, don't you worry too much about Angela Merkel, I'm going back to this amendment. By amendment to Article 4, we wanted to warn the last time the government of the Republic of Serbia took care of the Constitution when some laws came into force. However, in the merger of these points of the agenda, you have only done one in a series of worse things, and that is that in the maintenance of buildings, Mr. Dulic promotes the principle of democracy one man - one vote. So a democratic principle is being promoted where it cannot exist. Now let me explain this to these pro-European people and Euro fanatics. Apartment building with six apartments, all apartments in property. That building has some hallways, some entrances. There may be some common room and something else, but within one building. According to this bill of law, the Assembly consists of six members of apartment owners, and decisions are made by a majority of votes. So, 4:2. Then it'll be a quorum, so it'll be a Bodrum vote. These are all democratic traditions, Mr. Dulic. Since democracy came, we know it's possible for a man to be here and if you don't see him. He's a nice voice from Bodrum, that's all possible. A citizen as owner of an apartment has the right to use, manage and dispose of his property. Six apartment owners have the same rights. When it comes to the hallway, the terrace, the lighthouse, what's common, they all have the right to use because it's common within that immovableity. But when it comes to the availability of that space, it cannot be available independently, because it is in the function of each individual immovableity. Very simple and very simple. Here's an example of what happened on Number 70 Jerkovic Street, Mr. Dulic. There was a building with 21 apartments. There are 12 apartments built. In the House Building Maintenance Act, the government introduced the construction, construction and conversion of common space into residential space because in 1994 the special law was declared unconstitutional, not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If available acts concerning common space now require the majority of owners, the democratic principle of one man is now being changed and a single vote is being introduced, so it is possible that two or three with a Garsonier have a greater right to decide than two with unmatched larger apartments. All in maintenance form, so that the roof doesn't leak, that the foundation will be rescheduled, that something about maintenance will be rescheduled, and in fact there will be an upgrade, upgrade and conversion of common rooms into a residential space. The other part of that story is local self-government. If someone thinks that after this law, they're going to light up all the housing buildings in terms of maintenance and use, they're wrong. Nothing's gonna change. Only a way of making decisions will change so that someone can build, build and turn common rooms into a residential space. This is the whole operation designed by Mr. Dulic because of the fact that the Law on superstructure no longer exists and that a democratic man is needed – one vote, that it is necessary from Bodrum and in another way to decide even on the issues of availability when it comes to building, building and transforming common space into a residential space. It is indisputable from the point of view of use and management that all individual owners of apartments in the building are equal, but it is not the subject of this law. The theme of this law is building. In the case of supervision, each of the existing owners cannot be equal. And what is Mr. Dulic and the Government hiding? In its opinion, i.e. by its position or decision of the Constitutional Court, Bose Nenadić. You've found what you're going to call. You have referred to something that denies basic property principles. Thank you for having the patience to listen to me, and it would be good to have a little interest in what's going on on on Brnjak and Jarinj.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63053	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a COMMUNITY LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Buha, Živojin Stanković, Srdjan Spasojevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Vladan Jeremic, Dusan Marić, Simo Vukovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Radojko Obradović, Arsen Đurić, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Mirko Munjic, Sreto Perić, Nikola Savivić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Srdjan Miković, Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Radoslav Milovanovic, Bozidar Delić and Srdjan Milivojevic and amendments to the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. You have received the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to the search in detail, I would like to remind you that the amendments were drawn by MPs Živojin Stankovic to Article 24 and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, who proposed adding a title above the members and members of the 27a, and proposed adding a title above members and members of 41a. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63054	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, in this case, this amendment is about legal-technical correction and the government has accepted this legal-technical correction in order to supplement the bill. However, I must spread a little bit about the law itself and all that is related to communal activity. In fact, this area is very wide. It is covered by several legal regulations that are not in conformity. This is one of the attempts to coordinate communal activity and to find directions and certain solutions in terms of resolving the existing situation and finding certain organisational technical, technological and other procedures, in terms of improving the performance of these activities. What's important from the SRS aspect, you don't have what's most important in the bill, which is most vital, you don't have a strategy. No action can be adequately designed or later implemented unless there is a strategy. This state in the field of municipal action has no strategy. What I have pointed out several times and what the Serbian Radical Party has said, just about the strategy, is necessary, it is necessary, and the government established a working group about two years ago to develop a strategy for the privatisation of the municipal system, but also a strategy for the development of municipal action. There were several projects that could have gone public, what could have been monitored on government websites and some ministries. But to date, we don't have the right strategy. Why the strategy? Because we have huge problems in this area and we don't see an exit without a strategy. The government didn't come out with a strategy, and what's important is to point out here, it's a catastrophic situation in the practice of companies dealing with this activity. According to the report, what we have received with the bill, we see that about 500 companies exist in this area dealing with municipal activities, one directly, the other indirectly. But from a financial point of view, we have to say that it's a catastrophic situation because 95% of these companies deal with losses. The cumulative losses of these companies are somewhere at 750m euros. For the last four years, during the rule of this government, the accumulated losses have been around 400m euros. It's a catastrophic condition. Why is that? Because municipal activities are put aside, because local self-government has been denied by this government in terms of the settlement of certain obligations, certain election revenues that need to belong to local self-government, the government has denied around 650m euros in funds, which it had to give because it is bound by the Law on the financing of local self-government. What was to be partially completed in municipal enterprises, this was spent by the government in some of its work, which unfortunately did not bring results, and in this area public enterprises and municipal enterprises dealing with municipal activities remained deprived of development and in terms of the resolution of the existing situation. Where's the exit now? Instead of the way you say it here - that it wants to improve, that it wants to develop, you don't improve, you don't develop this bill. You only confirm the current situation, and the only interest of this law is to allow private investment in municipal activity. Serbia's radical party against it, but rules must be known, it must know what actions a private investor can invest in, which are of particular social importance to any local self-government. This must be said by the state, after and local self-government, to be defined in a specific direction, i.e. in a particular action. Where is the private interest where a certain communal activity can be given to private persons? Is that what this law says? It's not standing. We also have a law that we will consider for a few days in particular, it is a law on public-private partnership and concessions, which also confirms something that is confirmed by this law, which is the possibility of funding in municipal activity. But neither law has defined the means of financing, the conditions of funding, the financing process, the way in which it works, and most importantly, the price of municipal service, this law defines the price of municipal service that will remain defined as the practice so far. Are we going to solve problems in the municipal sector with a way to determine the price of municipal services this way? We won't. Will the level of existing prices satisfy the needs of citizens? Right now, yes, but what does that mean in perspective? What does it mean in some perspective, when this utility is unable to adequately collect, it cannot achieve what the cost of a public service really costs, it cannot charge everything that citizens cannot pay, given the small paying ability of Serbian citizens? This will make it even more complicated in both financial and organisational terms, this system that is now hopeless. The communal companies are in front of bankruptcy, I guess that's clear. Will privates now be interested in entering this system, getting involved, funding funds and maintaining the level of utility prices, as has been the case so far? He won't. This is a dead letter on paper. There is no private interest if someone sets prices for them, or you, since you haven't defined a procedure here, no way, no conditions, no procedures, no many other things that are necessary in the situation where you determine, when you allow the private sector to enter a particular activity, we will have chaos as we do now. Mr. Dulic, on many occasions you have listened to the story of the SRS regarding the municipal system. You didn't do what you had to do with this law. This law will not improve Serbian citizens. Communal companies that are now at risk, they will remain at risk. Does the state have a mechanism to provide funding for local self-government and the operation of municipal enterprises? There isn't. Is there a mechanism and means to assist the municipal system in all local self-government? There isn't. Will the privates come in, now we just love to invest our resources, to invest it in the municipal economy? No private will enter all of this without calculations, contrary to the interests of this law, to protect the social interest. Mr. Dulic, this is a dead letter on paper. We will probably have this or similar law again in a year with the new government, but you will not do anything until you make a strategy for the development of the municipal system, as other countries have done, and they know where and how to invest, how to resuscitate certain states, what actions can be left to the private sector, so let it do, let it determine the level of cost of municipal services and let it take that step in terms of improving certain performance. You must protect the actions that are of particular vital, social importance and that must help both the state and local self-government. Can the state do that with a budget like this now? He can't. Can local self-government do that? He can't, he doesn't have enough resources. The price of utility services is what it is. He's too big now, and now citizens can't normally settle municipal services. Will this be possible in the coming period without the help of local self-government with suspicious investment opportunities for private capital? It won't work. Will we then fulfill the purpose of this law, to get a quality law that we will be able to implement and that will bring about some improvement in municipal activity? We won't. So this is a dead letter on paper, pull this. Let's not spend a year or a year and a half considering the same regulation that's going to resuscitate what we've missed for these years or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63055	Mr. Buha, the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted this amendment. I don't know if you heard that, I read it. You're the only one who's got a chance to pull him back. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Mrs Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of the SRS Parliament Club to Article 3. The government has accepted it, and we have proposed that in point 2 of point 1 one of the municipal activities should be determined more correctly and that the purification and disposal of atmospheric and waste water be determined by writing a treatment plant instead of a treatment device. In this amendment, the government recognised a more correct solution, resulting in its acceptance. However, some of the practical solutions of the SRS that we constantly propose to the representatives of the authorities do not recognise as their own interest, especially when it comes to carrying out municipal activities. The law that is still in force requires that municipal activities can be carried out by public utility companies and companies to whom it is entrusted. In this bill, which will now be passed, there is a small wider circle of those who will carry out municipal activities, as it is written that other economic operators will be able to do so. For many years, citizens have been able to witness the phenomenon, that until yesterday unknown entrepreneurs or companies entrusted with carrying out some municipal activity very quickly become rich, that the prices of utility services they offer are too high, above the economic prices at which the bill insists. We've recently had a chance to see that they've accumulated gas, heating, transport. For most citizens, this means the inability to survive, because so far it has been hard to live, especially in families where no one is employed, no member works, or the family is supported by pensions or small wages. The second phenomenon that the SRS is constantly talking about, which is often the subject of judicial and investigative law enforcement, is the behaviour of public business managers. On the one hand, we have great losses from public enterprises, and on the other hand, in the true sense of that word, the waste of their executives. Losses are compensated from the budget by taking loans and constantly in the circle. Through this law, expressions are repeatedly intertwined: the user pays and the polluter pays. It is clear that if you use something, you have to pay it, but the prices of municipal services are increasing, citizens are being imposed on more and more, and the wastefulness and irresponsibility of public enterprises leaders is increasing. Another thing that is inadmissible is the relationship and irresponsibility of the new government towards its southern province, according to the work of its territory, i.e. towards the part of KIM. We heard that last night from two north of Kosovo was cut off from the rest of Serbia, and the Serbian government is preparing one document and preparing another. People's MPs are only left to be informed from the media that Saturday is supposed to be a session, but the SRS thinks it is necessary for the representatives of the government present here to give some concrete notice, whether the government will have a document and whether the sessions will be held on Saturday, because we have already been expecting a session, warned about it, asked several times, and there are still no concrete notifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63057	You're probably late today, you haven't heard my explanation and notice that we're expecting the document, that if we get the document tomorrow, or if we have the options by the end of the week, including Saturday and Sunday, that's all the times when we're going to schedule the session, but I can't schedule the session, Mrs. Dimitrijevic, before the document arrives from the government, and the government, before it adopts the document, can't send it. It's some logical order. I think you know, but you've obviously agreed that today you're all talking about it, that you don't have information. Please, the public is working for you, so we understand each other. I can't schedule a session before we get the document from the government. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Mrs Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63058	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we obviously didn't understand each other. You're talking about expecting us, I heard you say that, but you didn't hear me. I said that the representatives of the government were present.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63059	I asked you to do the amendment, and I realized that you'd come forward after the amendment. This is one explanation and a notice that I give to MPs and the public. If we don't understand each other, we'll get along on a break later. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee have accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63060	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill provided for the government that units of local self-government, municipalities, city assemblies have an obligation to provide security for public service users. It is safe to assume that they have the certainty that they will have the continuity of certain municipal services. We have proposed this amendment to oblige municipalities to guarantee and protect users of municipal services. What were we thinking when we proposed the amendment? To what protection? So, protection against health threats, protection against excessive prices, protection against poor services and protection in the selection of partner companies to which the municipality trusts certain municipal activity. I ask the question who will protect the citizens from this last abuse? Under the current circumstances, no one will. It's just not possible. Here's why. Is there anyone who, under the current circumstances, will prevent any president of the municipality from selling whatever communal activity he wants, from giving it up, from giving up a public enterprise, from selling it to some company he chooses, with which he makes any kind of deal, out of any of his own personal interest? First, the president of the municipality under this bill has the right to decide on his own to order a study of the justification of the sale. We in the SRS feel that this is not logical, that this authority should only have a unit of local self-government, a local self-government assembly. Secondly, the president of the municipality as president of the municipal council determines the composition of the competition commission, determines the conditions of the competition and ultimately dictates the competition commission's decision. It's a fact that no one can dispute. Third, the president of the municipality controls the congregation's majority. If one of the council members in the congregation refuses at a certain point to support the proposal of the president of the municipality, I would say that the president of the municipality and this company, who will, who intended to take over a certain municipal activity, can easily secure a new congregation majority. They can simply make purchases of small money councilors, whether to give bribes, whether to give jobs. The municipalities in Serbia have an average of 40 to 50 council members. The advance in the congregation’s majority is always made up by several committees, three, four, or five committee members. Do you know what for a company, a foreign company or a domestic company, means that in a business worth 20 or 30 million euros, you employ three or four people? It doesn't mean anything at all. Until a year ago, that wasn't possible. However, it was not possible because political parties controlled their committee. You passed a law a year ago, under which the mandates belong to the council and now the committees are free shooters, and the local self-government units are converted into markets. I'll list only one concrete entry, to see what danger lies ahead. I'm specifically talking about the Big Plan Community. There, the president of the municipality decided a year ago to entrust the municipal action of taking out garbage to another company, and until then, the public utility company Milos Mitrovic was doing the jobs. A competition has been called, two companies reported to the competition and the competition is scheduled for 25 years. Asa and Werner Weber Por have come forward. Here's their offer. It says – the projected level of investment in equipment in the first year of "ASA" about 250 million, "Pore" about 94 million dinars. The projected level of investment in equipment in the coming years, ASA around 880 million and Por 340 million. The cost of delivering junk to citizens per household member, 150 dinars "ASA" and 165 dinar "Pore". The last price for taking out trash for legal persons per metre square, "ASA" is nine dinars, and "Pore" from 11 to 24 dinars. So, however you compare, by all parameters, the ASA offer was far more favourable for both citizens and the economy, but the president of the municipalities, the competition commission and the municipal council gave priority to the offer of "Pora". However, a problem has arisen. There was no congregation majority who would vote this. People thought it was a dubious job, that neither the ASE offer nor the Pora offer was an appropriate offer. Even most of the council members were in the population that these services should continue to be performed by the Public Communal Company Milos Mitrovic. You know what happened? On the eve of a meeting of the municipality's assembly, which was to decide on this issue, six council members, who were not only opposed to accepting the offer of "Pora", were opposed to the fact that the communal work of taking the trash away from the Public Communal Company Milos Mitrovic in general. So they were the biggest opponents of it, and within 24 hours they became the biggest advocates of it, and everyone voted in favour of it. In the meantime, there was only one small change. They all got jobs, either they or members of their families, or, as one of them told me, they got an offer that wasn't rejected. The final result is the following -- the president of Dejan Šulkic municipality got what he wanted, this company "Verner Weber Por" also got what it wanted, the garbage in the Great Plan was no better than it was five months ago, and the citizens got exactly 100% higher prices than they were five or six months ago. Now, this is a problem in the Municipality of the Great Plan, which has 13,000 households. She's a relatively middle or small municipality. The 25-year-old job, if the revenue from recycling is calculated, is worth between 30m and 40m euros. I ask, what will happen, what abuses will happen in municipalities and cities that have 10 times as many users of municipal services as the Great Plan, where these jobs are worth hundreds of millions of euros? As far as Belgrade is concerned, between 25 and 30 years must be over a billion euros. Who will prevent the presidents of the municipalities, mayors, from, with the help of the committees, who freely dispose of their mandates, in the congregations of the municipality, which you have turned into markets, selling municipal activities to whom you will, to your favorites? Finally, I would like to remind you, according to the European Commission, according to EU data, that according to the Anti-Corruption Agency, every fifth euro in Serbia in public procurement business goes on bribery and corruption. I ask the question, Mr. Minister, how will you prevent it after the adoption of this law? I'm saying there's no way. There is only one way to end the criminal decision that the committees have parliamentary mandates and to impose the obligation of the committees to respect the decisions of political parties on whose lists they have been elected as committees in the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to, on your behalf and on my behalf, welcome the Association of Pensioners from Hrtkovci, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. They are present: Đaković Radomir, Požega Soka, Banjglava Ljuba, Bogdanović Branko, Matijević Milan, Marić Jasmina, Misčević Slavko, Zuber Ana, Eraković Nikola, Kerestesh Tereza, Janus Dmitar, Milakara Dragan, Vujić Petar, Brčin Dragan, Nožinić Mile, Praskić Slobodan, Ugrčić Nikola, Bertok Stjepan, Tornjski Borka, Trbojević Ranko, Tatomirović Kata, Trlaić Zdravko, Puac Cazo, Čipčina Ivanka, Čiča Anka, Bartok Katica, Budić Blađe, Dragić Rajaković, Labus Branko, Labus Štefanija, Dan Jovanka, Vukojević Milu, Sakojević Dušan, Nezković Pero, Živović, Živanov Marija, Rajanović Marija Marija, Rajaović, Rajović, Rajja Vlažinović, Žvić, Živić, Žvić, Obražić, Varražić. Please welcome our guests with applause. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction submitted an amendment to Article 5. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63062	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think it has been very useful for you to listen to Mr. Maric. It wasn't a political story or a political message, first of all, but it was a finding of a problem that wasn't just in the Great Plan. These problems are present in all municipalities where "Weber Por" appears and they, in essence, show total weakness of the institutions and the weakness of the state, because, on the one hand or not, or cannot be dealt with with with with with with the private capital that is really welcome for the SRS, but not under the conditions under which it came, entered the sector of municipal activity and in the manner in which these communal activities are carried out. I have submitted, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 5 of this Law and this seems to me to be a fundamental amendment that manifests a political message. I think the explanation for which you refused me the amendment is really unfounded, thin and, for the public and for the MPs who listen, I will read it. We have proposed that the municipal activities of item 2 or water supply, sewerage and heat energy, the distribution of heat energy, can be entrusted exclusively to public enterprises, i.e. companies with the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government units. We believe that these three types of municipal activities absolutely at this time, on such political occasions, in these political circumstances, at such a low level of functioning of state institutions, Serbia must not accept. You have, by this law, entered into the concept of full liberalisation from one full control and public sector management by the state. This, Mr. Minister, is dangerous. Not because the liberal concept of the market economy is unacceptable for the SRS, but because the state, the government in Serbia, is not able to control this process adequately. What do you assure us of? In fair tender procedures? In what? Look today, we have received a report from the municipal companies "Median" in Nis and Novi Sad. Robbery and abuse, public procurement, non-founded borrowing, etc. This shows the weakness of the state, which shows that the state is not ready and able to deal with the problems it has objectively, and there are also mechanisms and institutions at its disposal. And now, in such an atmosphere, on such occasions, this activity should be entrusted to private capital! What did you write in your explanation? He says, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that do not comply with the aim and spirit of the proposal for a law on municipal action." It says "the EU's legal assets". We are not interested in the legal assets of the EU, but the political assets of the Union have denied you, Mr Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have a document with me that I believe you have, too. Here, Mr. Minister, is a statistical review of the water ownership of the European continent. Of all 29 countries, only two countries on the European continent have water lines of 100% ownership. One isn't even on the continent, one's an island state, that's the UK and the other's France. All other countries, such as Belgium 100% state-owned, Cyprus 100% state-owned, Lithuania 100% state-owned, Luxembourg 100% state-owned, Finland 95%, Malta 100%, Luxembourg 100%, the Netherlands 100%, Switzerland 100% and the country that went farthest in the sector of municipal activity on the European continent – Sweden 99%, 1% private ownership. I am telling you that today in Serbia you have more than 1% of the private ownership of water networks that are not listed and registered in 10 years' time. There's a law, Mr. Minister, you know, that says that every organized water supply for over, I think 15 or 20 people, the state has to register. You have villages, villages, mosses that, in this way, are supplied with water, the state has no idea where it is or what it is, not for money, but for public health, for safety. That's why we're talking about institutions that are completely, completely inefficient and that the fundamental government that in Serbia for ten years is not interested in anything alive. Yesterday in my discussion, I said that we expect you to just put more Serbia with all of us on the tender to sell us as well as "Sartid" for 20-30 million dollars, to share it before the elections and to enjoy it. Channeling, too, sewers, purification and treatment of waste water, it is even more state-owned than water. These are the legal and political assets of your Europe, where the unfortunate lead us. There. And now here you assure us that the position of the SRS that requires certain municipal activities to remain entrusted to either public enterprises or companies that are mostly owned by the state is not in line with some of the materials. What nonsense. This fully promotes the misunderstanding of the state, what is its role and authority and what is your role and position when it comes to communal action and what is your mission and mission, if you already want to trust these actions to the private sector, what and how do you have to do it? What is the role of creating a balance so that you do not question public and public interests and, on the other hand, by releasing private capital into this sector, you really raise the level of services. But there is no man on the planet who will convince us that the communal actions I speak better today in Serbia in this economic environment will be done by privates. That really doesn't stand and our experiences in Serbia so far are absolutely on the sidelines of the SRS. They were also spoken of by Mr Dusan Maric, and I will talk about them later through the experience of "Porn Webber" from Vladic's Han, which the state is silent about, so Leskovac, etc. It's a weakness, and you can only imagine what a reflection is going to be when this is reflected in water supply. In an explanation, the government wrote that the amendment makes investment in municipal infrastructure impossible. That, Minister, is not true, it is absolutely not true. You know very well what the state of municipal infrastructure is in the activities in which I speak. What do we expect - that the private capital that you allow will be easier and faster to define themselves in investment? You know very well he won't. Where'd they get the money? It will pull through credit lines that are much more unfavourable than credit lines for the public sector. So here, first of all, you have to have a zero general interest, a public interest. You're speaking here from the government to ensure a monopoly by accepting the amendment this way. This is not the minister of a sick monopoly such as the monopoly that the state has confirmed and given Miskovic, Beku, these from Croatia as they are called Todorovic, Agrokor etc. They're mean, dangerous monopolies. These ministers are natural monopolies. I ask you to tell me – how are you going to let that competition into water supply? How many water lines are there going to be now? How many sewers are there going to be now, Belgrade? They'll have one public one, so now the private will enter to create a private network, etc. This is by science a natural monopoly and if the state is responsible and capable that natural monopoly can be useful. It doesn't have to be as bad as it is in Serbia. He doesn't have to. But you haven't done a bunch of things so far that made a prerequisite for one day getting into this. The experiences of the countries most liberalised in the municipal sector, you know what they're saying? First they took care of it, cleaned up the garbage in the public sector, rooted out all the honors that our public sector is burdening, and then they went into the community service, privacy, and they did most of it to America, which bombed us, which is stealing our kiM. Another question from the minister, not for representatives of the assembly, perhaps you are sitting in the government, did the government bring any document concerning KIM and will the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic finally send the document? Serbs are harassing, scrambling, killing in the southern Serbian province, and the SRS expects you to tell us when we're finally going to talk about it here. By the time we've touched KIM, my question is - Mr. Minister, how are you going to enforce this law in municipal enterprises in municipalities where Serbs are in power? In certain legislative projects of municipal activity, they are not even statistically listed, and the government has sent them to the Assembly. A few days ago, I can't remember exactly, there's a public sector listed under one law, public property of municipal enterprises, etc., companies with KIM have been left out. Today, the Serbian state has its presidents of municipalities, directors of municipal enterprises whose founder and tenently the government did not consider them, did not list them. When will the document, when will the debate on KIM in the Assembly and, in the end, how will you apply this to KIM? That's what we're interested in, which is why we think you're entering a very dangerous adventure. Maybe that's the state's tendency. If so, the SRS is quite certain that the task of the state and government is to destroy the state, to completely destroy it, that something left in the state, owned and able to function only if the political atmosphere changed could function properly. It doesn't always have to be a bad tender procedure, it doesn't always have to be a public sector burdened by political pressures, arrests, employment, robbery through public procurement, through tenders, through everything that objectively burdens the public sector. You can't get a DRI report from one company today that won't give us devastating information and these are public documents that no state institution will react to. Is there any criminal responsibility? We've solved everything here, let's now trust the utility to the private sector. We have nothing against it, and we have been very constructive here, but we believe that the reasons for these three actions to remain under the state administration are absolutely justified and justified. We even managed to keep this relationship 51:49 destimulating. Minister, someone who produces and distributes water can't be lost. One is a serious investment and a cost, it's a network. We can talk about networks with two aspects. One aspect is what has already been done and the cost of business has already been built into the costs of building the network. Whoever distributes water no longer has a serious cost. You have to understand, from an economic point of view in this sector, prices are burdened by border, not average costs, and that's not good. This shows the absolute lack of interest of those who suggest that this be protected by public, or state interest. If subsidies are already going, then let the subsidies go to the public sector. Why would I be a taxpayer who will be singled out for the Republic or local budget and be subsidized from that budget by a citizen of the municipality that now owns, or manages water supply? Why is that? Where is economic, political logic? It's just gone and it's not good. Not to mention the security aspects, to talk about the state of the network, what the losses are. In Novi Sad, the losses are when the water comes out of the treatment plant to 30%, and that's in Novi Sad, and imagine what's in southern Serbia or Banat, which is in some municipalities that are really at the lower limit of existence and survival. What do you assure us? That private capital would be defined to restructure the network? Not the ministers, but the existing potential to exploit the maximum, not taking care of the social component of the price, will raise prices and will turn it into a Javezluk and chaos. This will force the state to regulate, and the state does not have adequate mechanisms to regulate these activities when they are entrusted to the private sector, especially states such as Serbia, where the judiciary, the prosecution, the inspection authorities are simply unable to deal with problems. I've talked here a hundred times about the water supply problem in Surdulica. To see an example of the insolence of the political impudence of the leadership and the municipalities and the public enterprise. The ministry writes one solution that the price is not good, so the ministry writes another solution that the prices are wrong, so the Administrative Court decides that the prices are wrong and no one in the country will do anything about it. He takes the local leadership and says, "What do you care, no one can harm you?" (Zoran Krasic: It is DS. And SPS, together they're in power. (President: Please, Mr. Krasic, allow the speaker a smooth exposure. I've got ministers on me, and here's all the documents on the problem. The prosecutor tells you, the case will be settled when we get a ruling from the Administrative Court. Well, he gets the judgment of the Administrative Court, and that stands. Here is one solution to the ministry, the second solution to the ministry, the ruling of the Administrative Court, for three years, prices are charged to citizens against the law. You have a court that informs you that 15 cases on this matter have expired, outdated, and one, and the other, that I am no longer reading, that I am not taking the time of the parliamentary group. Imagine now that the state is not ready to deal with incompetent, irresponsible and criminals in its ranks, how will it deal with this many weaknesses tomorrow, with the private sector? Therefore, the SRS is very clearly seeking, Minister, these three actions must be kept in possession and in the dominant governance of the state. You had to restructure the public sector, you had to share municipal enterprises, separate actions, because the distribution of water in a public enterprise, i.e. the balance sheet of a business public company, does not burden the sale of water, but all other activities that are in the utility. Ten percent of the total water needs a man uses daily only for drinking. Everything else uses other needs. If this genius is found, who's going to convince me that under these circumstances a public firm can operate negatively, then there's someone really crazy here, and we're not. That's right. Therefore, Minister I ask you, the SRS requires you to reconsider this, to accept this amendment, you will not be wrong, we assure you. We no longer want to comment on identifying any good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. From Kosovo to this evidence is a million. But this is something that you can accept, you need to accept, you will save one resource, and later institutionally, I do believe, when in the elections people clear with European policy to confide in responsible people, to clear up all the mess, chaos and garbage in the public sector, so that these actions can be dealt with in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63063	The word has a minister, Dr Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63064	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Stevanović. First of all, I think that you have entered a single gap between what is the essence of this law and the purpose of this law, on the one hand, and one very well-founded political debate that you are trying to lead. First of all, the Community Labour Act is not one way that I'm defending here today, predicting the privatisation of the public-communal sector, and I'd like you to tell me exactly where it says, how privatisation is going to happen in the first place. It was arranged by another law, and it's good that he arranged it, it's the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions, which is being discussed here in parallel during this assembly session. And one id of the mocking law is fully in line and they need to solve a few key things that we recognize exist. First of all, I'd say that most of the grades you've given here about the state of the municipal sector are shared by us. So, the condition is not good. For decades, communal companies have been places of employment on different grounds, in which there have been many problems, with regard to the irrationality of spending, which had utility prices, which did not correspond to the quality of the utility services provided. Also, the fact that nothing prevented private capital from entering municipal businesses over the past few years and it has entered, but it has entered into a way that was not controlled by the state and experience has shown that there is no, in many cases there is no clear negligent to protect the public interest, which says major problems that exist today in the implementation of contracts signed, on the one hand, between local self-government, or municipal enterprises, on the other hand, with private investors. For this very reason, there was a need to adopt these two laws, in order to create an ambience in which a procedure could be defined in which public services could be improved, which will be very clear and accurate, will mean several degrees of decision-making, will define a very clear methodology of public interest protection and what is most important, allow the municipal sector to develop in Serbia. Today, when you're saying what you're saying and we're strictly applying your amendment, we'd have one frozen picture in which nothing in Serbia would ever happen in the areas you mentioned and in which the worst situation is in relation to all other situations, and the situation is not great. So you're talking about three things: water supply and water production, waste management and regional dumps, waste treatment facilities, sewers, remote heating. So you're not talking about dumps, you're talking about waste. Great. I'm sorry. Now let's talk about all three areas. Only 38% of Serbian households have a sewer network. So 62% has no sewers at all, there are still septic caves, or there are toilets outside the housing facilities where our citizens live. Of which only 6%, therefore of these 34%, only 6% of waste water is purified in a way that is consistent with standards, which implies bio-chemical treatment of waste water, i.e. prevents toxic matter and biological pollution from being poured into water streams or groundwater. The catastrophic situation, and I have repeated many times, is that the state of the plant for the treatment of submerged waters, i.e. sewerage networks, is probably one of the worst conditions, when we talk about protecting the environment in Serbia and that this is the situation in which we need to invest in the years that are ahead of us, huge money. At this moment alone, there is a need to invest more than 20 billion dinars in sewers and wastewater treatment plants. Just at the moment. These are the needs of our citizens. These are the demands of local self-government that go towards someone. It is realistic to get a part of the funding from European funds and you are also witnessing that these projects are being done, somewhere they succeed, somewhere they fail. But basically, we can't develop a sewerage network in Serbia to allow our citizens to have the right in the 21st century, to have a normal sewerage, and at the end of that sewerage network there's a water treatment plant waiting for them, which won't pour out all those chemicals and feces into the water streams, into rivers, so to give them that right, we can't do it alone as a state, in the decades ahead. So it's impossible that money is ours from the budget. There's no generation of money that only one thing will be provided. There are two ways of funding. One way of funding, besides budgets, is to use European funds and they are used, but they are also limited and another way is to allow some capital to enter, which through a public private partnership will finance the production of sewers and enable people, and people want to pay and get sewers. So people are willing to pay, just that they don't have to go to the toilets anymore, that are out of the house or that every two or three months empty septic pits and have huge problems about it. So people are willing to pay for it. We don't say it's mandatory and it's going to happen, but it needs to be made possible, under strictly controlled conditions. The same goes for everyone else. I'll tell you one thing right away. Since you spent most of your time explaining why not water supply. We accepted yesterday on the board an amendment that defined the water supply issue as you suggested. Thus, water supply will not be able to be entrusted to anyone other than public and municipal enterprises or companies with majority state capital. So water and outflows, everything else will be able to be entrusted to different companies just because it's the only way for this country, not this year, not next year. You're talking about elections, so maybe you'll win the election today to start the first public private partnership to be established, it won't be established before May next year, because there are complicated mechanisms, public interest controls. So, I'm passing a law that needs to be done in the future to ensure that the municipal infrastructure develops, that it develops, in other words, private capital, and that in all control mechanisms we try to protect everything that you're talking about, I'm just justified by fear. It is clear to me that Serbia is a country in which there is confidence in a complete anomaly in which there is no government, in which there is no state control. I don't agree with that, and you've cited a few examples here, so exactly the fact that auditors are searching public utility companies and that you as MPs are getting it as a report. Exactly, the fact that the courts respond tells us that a control mechanism is being established and that these mistakes that happen will certainly not be repeated in the coming years. It was similar with the ministries. It is hard to say that now that after two or three years of the auditory's work, people in the departments run these administrative affairs can make similar mistakes. So it's just a system that's being established. Similarly, I believe it will be with public utility companies. So here we are talking about the need for our people, our citizens, to get a sewer, to get heat, not to chase trees, coal every year, to eventually reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We're talking here about people getting a normal communal service when we talk about city lighting, when we're talking about rail traffic in the future, like the Belgrade Metro, we're talking about basic things that our people have the right to do, and that's what makes it impossible for them because of the difficult economic situation in which this country has been back decades. The exactly state of the municipal sector that we have today is due to the fact that the sector was not being invested because the state had no money. If we accepted this amendment of yours as you suggested, it would automatically mean that there would be no business plans for any of the private capital to enter these areas that you proposed, there would be no. Why are you limiting someone? Well, maybe it'll be a 49-to-51 relationship, as you suggested here, and maybe it won't. Perhaps there will be only 30% of private capital in a city, 70% will retain the utility that today manages and which networks that have been developing behind it will be introduced as their founding capital into this company. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. I repeat, it's not a question for these people here, it's a question of the public-private partnership law. Please make these segments concerning the debate on economic mechanisms, as a private partnership is established, set up Minister Ciric. We are just here defending the principle that we have allowed public-private partnerships and private investment to happen in the municipal sector in all areas, except for the production of water and water supply, Trolleybus traffic, the management of cemeteries, because these are the needs of our municipalities, these are the needs of municipal enterprises. For the very end, since I really wouldn't go into the debate, I think she's good and she's useful, there are a lot of people in this country who have lived very well from the municipal sector and whose frozen image certainly suits the most. They're trying to spark an atmosphere where now, thanks to these laws, wild and private capital, they're going to rush into municipal enterprises and they're going to tear it apart, that they're going to necessarily raise prices to our citizens, that half of the workers in these municipal sectors will be fired, and that eventually they're going to throw it all away. It is an attempt to, I think, even through an ideological debate on whether or not private capital is good, through persistent insistence that everything must be state and social and that it is the only model in which the public interest is protected, and that any entry of private capital would put that public interest into question and, of course, the attempt to act on various actors in society, including trade unions, should these laws be withdrawn from the procedure. These laws will not be withdrawn from the procedure, they will be voted on. We've had enough understanding for all those who have the fear of losing their jobs or that they'll jump public service prices, thanks to these laws. We can say there's no reason to jump utility prices, no reason for anyone to lose a donkey. So let's separate those two fears. The mechanism that is being established for control is several times stricter than the mechanism that exists today in accordance with the laws that are in force today, because you know very well, you could today establish a public private partnership in some areas. Therefore, the mechanism implies not that the mayor makes a decision on a public private partnership, but the assembly of the municipality, therefore, the committees elected by the majority of citizens from the territory of a municipality, that the decision is then presented to the public private partnership committee formed by the state, which only has an advisory opinion, but can detect any irregularities, especially when it comes to negotiating public procurement itself. So we've established the two-degree control of the signed contracts to try to protect the public interest. In the end, everyone will have the right to participate in the procedures themselves when it comes to the establishment of public private partnerships, thus enabling some kind of competition and price fluctuations through the offer to be made. When you talk about not being good because there are bad examples, I could name you a bunch of good examples. Of course, bad examples are always better heard in Serbia and insist that politics be built on bad examples. No, there are good examples, and I'm sure there'll be a lot more under these laws. Not the municipal sector, but our citizens are looking for better utility services. Someone's got to finance it. Our people are looking for sewers, looking for water supply, looking for city lighting, asking for cans and containers outside the house, asking for no wild dumps on every corner, asking for better urban transport, asking for normal living conditions, decent living conditions that are adequate in the 21st century. That's the only way to make it possible if one of these laws is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63065	Thank you, Minister. I don't understand the vulnerabilities and the need to interfere with the minister who speaks very politely, so I warn you, Mr. Markovic, Mrs. Radeta and Mr. Krasic, that you do not do so in the future because it is neither nice nor polite. Mr. Stevanović has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63066	Mr. Minister, I haven't mentioned the privatisation process in the municipal sector for a moment. I don't know why you recognized it that way. I know it's privatisation and I know what it's like to believe in action, but then you who say I don't know and I don't recognize that difference, how if there's no privatisation, how will competition be created? That's one question. That's one thing. The other thing is, you say Serbia needs a sewer, it needs a water line. You underestimate the ability and capacity of this country. Do you know why Serbia doesn't have the plumbing and the sewerage, why it is the devastating statistics you listed? I read the report on the partial state of the environment for 2010. That's what I was saying when we adopted the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know why that is? Because political decisions in the government are burdened by the sick ambitions of coalition partners, and then instead of making one midway sewerage, you have to work for international multinational companies in Serbia to pay 10,000 euros. You have to give because of a crazy political project 900 million from the Serbian budget that a company like Fiat would be private. She's still private. "Fiat" has invested 100 million, and we've invested 900 and we don't have money to channel. That's why we don't. I said very nicely that the credit lines you pulled were supposed to be spent on those things. That makes sense, not political insanity. The money's been squandered, it's been through this country, and there are no effects. We're poisoning ourselves with inadequate water. We don't have a sewer, we don't have a treatment facility. (President: Time.) ) Can I use another minute, two of the time? (President: You can't. You've been given the right to speak on the basis of a replica. ) Can I use the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63067	You'll get it later, sign in. There are other MPs who have applied. The word is by Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic, an authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63068	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, is my view that this amendment should not be accepted. I'll read it again for the citizens. Citizens need to understand this. The amendment to Article 5 says - the municipal activities referred to in Article 2(3) can only be entrusted to public undertakings or companies with the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia or the unit of local self-government. This is a return to a time of socialism and a centralist one. The adoption of this amendment would fundamentally change the meaning of the law, and that's where the government is right. For what reason? Article 9 of this Law on municipal activities states that, under the trust of the exercise of municipal activity, a time-limited contractual arrangement of the relationship with the performance of municipal activity or of certain works within the framework of municipal activity between one and more units of local self-government and operators of communal activity is understood. What's monopoly protection? Article 8 says – the local self-government unit and the public service contractor are required to submit a report, data and information on the performance of the municipal activity within 15 days of the date of receipt of the request. I come from eastern Serbia where the transport of municipal waste was solved only in central city municipalities. In the municipality of Kučevo, only the city's local community and another local community have resolved to carry out municipal waste. Most of the utility companies are in crisis, and they're practically municipal budget parasites. So, a large part of the funds are invested from the budget, meaning taxpayers, citizens, charges of municipal taxis, investments in utility companies. This law systemically regulates it, and I think this is one of the very good laws in the series that this ministry has filed. On the other hand, I would take this opportunity to commend the ministry for several reasons. This ministry has funded the development of the Space Plan. In the municipality of Braničevski County, in particular, as regards the municipality of Kučevo, therefore I come, two million and eight hundred have invested this ministry in the development of the Space Plan. The spatial plan is very important for all local self-governments for the simple reason that we read in the media that it takes even nine months to obtain all the permits and all that it takes to get one investor to work. The head of the ministry's cabinet, Srdjan Jovicic, was very much in the mood to issue permits, instructions and so forth. I don't think there's an MP who doesn't have his phone number. What's important is that local permits in this ministry are obtained within weeks to two days, and that's what citizens should know, because it's very important as far as big projects are concerned. I propose that all MPs vote for this law, because this is a system law that solves ordinary citizens' problems and solves this issue in the long run. Accepting such amendments would completely disrupt the very meaning of the law and then the law wouldn't be the way it is. That's why I'm going to advocate, as far as our MPs' group is concerned, and I hope that most MPs will also support one of these good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63069	Thank you, Mr. Milovanovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63070	Well, there's no minister, but come on. Well, then, Mr. Novakovic, when the minister arrives, you tell him everything I'm going to say. We first explained that Mr. Stevanovic did not talk about privatisation, and when someone reads the amendment to the SRS, let him read that it says 51% in brackets, it is very important not to skip. Anyway, let me give you a nice heads-up, 'cause this whole thing has some kind of prehistory. Back in 2000, I took part in writing the Law on Public Enterprises and in the works of general interest. For the first time, entrepreneurs and private capital were officially allowed to be involved in the operation of municipal activities, based on the trust in the performance of these activities. This is where you listed these 15 actions, so I don't go into further discussion. So one dimension is the technology of carrying out municipal activity, it does not process this bill. This law, first of all, defines an organisation from the point of view of the status of those who need to provide municipal services in the broadest sense of the word. If we've made that clear, then we can move on. It is not true that there is no place in our constitutional legal system to trust certain tasks in the field of municipal activity, to tell the private sector. Why isn't it true? Well, since 1999, private buses have been driving here to Belgrade. Do you remember, you from the DS, that in 1997, when Vuk Draskovic moved from the SPS, Zoran Djindjic, that private people were going to engage in these activities? Do you remember that Vuk Draskovic ran an action to privatize the water supply, that's the other topic now, and his feasibility study has come down to the fact that only the French know better how to read the plumber than ours from the plumbing and sewers? Now, what is the basic objection that we represent in our amendments? The basic objection is because this is a law on criminal activity. Every draft law directed by the DS has its stakes – the law on criminal activities. Now let me explain, simple and simple. You've heard of Surdulla, the Democrats are in power. You're not anymore? You've been driven away? Okay. Let's go to Belgrade now, see what it's like in Belgrade. Do you Democrats know you've invented a new traffic sign?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63071	Mr. Krassic, let's go to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63072	Just stick to the law, Mr. Novakovic, and enjoy. If we look at the state of Belgrade, DS and Gilas have invented a new traffic sign – the forbidden passing of trams in the turn because they can crash. You've taken all European standards, both width and space. However, you must put a sign, whether to put Gilas on the picture, whether the EU, whether Boris Tadic. Tramways when they're supposed to hit the corner, they've got to stop one of them, they've got to go through the curve, so the other one can pass, because they can crash. There are no trams clashing anywhere in the world, as the railways are separated, in Belgrade to crash. You've made a stand in New Belgrade. The Spanish came to you, faster to tear those positions down, 20 centimeters too far. And you're talking about European standards, and you're talking about something great that's going to end up, something epochal that makes this law. Who can trust you? Next, did you put the subject right here? We just heard, although I don't understand what this MP said before me, whether he boasts, whether he complains about being in power, but well, it's all fine, a man complains, was at Minister Dulic's, drank his coffee, finished it all quickly, so of course, and should be praised. But do you understand one thing? Today, utility prices are extremely high for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what local self-government is. Where the private came in with some communal activity, I was talking about, Kovac, taking out the trash, at the beginning seven times as expensive. But that's a good job. Why? Because a new monopoly is being established. You don't even have rigorous provisions on the price control of utility services here. Why am I saying that the law on criminal activity is? Did you hear Maric explain how a president of the municipality could force him to push through a job and bring all users of municipal services into an unexplainable situation? You have no limitations here. Communal activities are of paramount importance because they are unimaginable for a specific space in so far as they are not carried out, water, sewerage, transport, etc. That's a lot of caution to be present. All municipal services in Serbia, most, are being donated by local self-government units. Why? Because citizens can't pay public service on market terms. Why can't they pay? You promised to hire them. You fired them. You promised the privatisations, they're gonna light up. Privatisation means losing your job. You heard Dulic, everything will be fine after this law, just to get more into the EU. We'll never be members of the EU, they don't want us. But you're going with a story, a lullaby, if you can double-cross someone. Pro-European coalition capacity, so that's your blue bridge. Like, everyone has a coalition capacity, for 20 euros, for 30 euros. And it will get Serbia out of this crisis. You're making this situation even more complicated. It says -- utility companies are in a catastrophic position. Run these companies for 11 years. Who's to blame for 11 years, who bothered you? You've received donations from abroad. And you stole it. Now you're talking -- a feasibility study, this and that. Where a partner can go in Serbia, are you normal? From the dude mare and the place is sour. Two municipalities will agree on the dump, on this, on that one. One died because of that dump. One got a new security detail, lost that private security deposit and recycling of secondary raw materials. This is the law on criminal activity. Every bill of law you make is about criminal acts. Why? Someone to fit in. First it enters a small door, and then the whole system can't work unless the cost of utility is increased. How's he gonna get rid of it? Or by subsidising, to suck from the municipality, from the Republic or towards consumers. Here's your gas slap. You made people, very interesting, just on gas. It's free. Here, they're canceling people. You made people chase for those licking variants. Every other car is returned. You made people buy apartments, so you remembered, you pay interest to banks, you help a citizen by subsidising part of the interest and giving to banks and filling pockets with banks, and Serbia is sinking, the poor, the poor and the dormant, and we're about to join the EU. By the way, you're making up new traffic signs - forbidden by trams to pass in turns, epochal things. You're voting from Bodrum. Those who voted from Bodrum or who represent that theory, can they do something good for this country? By definition, I can't. So you won't have any support for this law on criminal activity, no matter what you've accepted some amendments, which we've just wanted to fix your mental state since we've seen something sick in this bill. Move that frozen picture of beautiful Europe and the EU. Move that picture, no one believes you anymore, 80% of the citizens don't want to hear about the EU. They get gastritis right away, they get stomachache. Because when you say – the European Union, that means losing a job. That means criminalising society until the end of the week. Today everything is criminalized in our country. Here's your criminalization in this bill. You can see between each row what the background is. I was just telling you about the House Building Maintenance Act. The point is to build up, build up. Why? Look at what's going on in Belgrade. Go through the crab and take a look. Who does that? The Democratic Party, headed by the column. It's a story about the absence of a sewer. Go to Marička Street to see, illegally built buildings, channelling people themselves when it was a suburban part. Come to pick up 50 apartments in the apartment building, the sewers can no longer receive. What those privates in private buildings pay for water, and the sewers won't come for them. How can someone be a water user without being a sewer user at the same time? How did they join? That's what Dulic needs to answer. That's what the authorities need to answer. You're talking about some chaos. Eleven years every day, you're just thinking about what a mess to make and looking to drive this people crazy, to decide a tie tomorrow in the election. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63073	It wasn't easy, but the word gets Mr. Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63074	It'll be easier for you now, Mr. Novakovic. I just need to rely on what Mr. Krasic said. It doesn't matter anymore that the European Union doesn't want Serbia. What is very important, which in Serbia has matured the awareness that we do not need to go there. Finally, the percentages are that they are not going to the European Union on the part of the Serbian Radical Party and we are enjoying it, we are glad and we believe that it will be an avalanche until the next elections. I want to comment on something Mr. Milovanovic said earlier, he left. He had an idea to commend these people from the Ministry and the Minister and the Ministry. I have nothing against it, who will praise whom, but his own. There's nothing to argue about. But you know what the problem is here? Which is the wrong time to answer and what's absolutely wrong with the subject. Neither I talked about the transportation of solid waste to dumps, etc., nor did the Serbian Radical Party ask for this to remain owned by the state, i.e. to rely exclusively on the state, public enterprises. We're specifically looking for water, sewers and heat heating. Imagine now, the Democratic Party tells the Serbian Radical Party -- you are bringing us back with this amendment in a period of communism. Now I'm going to read the statistics again. Here's a statistical review, a wastewater property in Europe, which we don't want to go to. Says – Austria 96% state property, Belgium 93% state property, and this 7% is not private, but a mixed partnership, Bulgaria 84%, Croatia cannot read, Cyprus 100%, Denmark 100%, Finland 100%, Germany 96%, Hungary 80%, Iceland 94%, Lithuania 100%, Italy 80%, Malta 100%, Norway 100%, all misery. You geniuses know what liberal capitalism is, and these are all jerks, they don't know. They entrusted the state with sewers and water lines. You know how pathetic it is when you don't choose how you're going to do something that's unprotective to defend? It's not the state's job to subsidize the Fiat, it's to make a sewer. When we talk privatisation, it's not the state's job to privatize the water lines tomorrow, it's to privatise the flag. That's how a game is created. It is not the job of the state to finance jobs as they are financed today in Serbia, domestic, small and medium-sized enterprises, and you pay multinational companies, so the minister tells us – there will be a healthier service. What's the problem with heating today, in general? Why doesn't the people have the money to pay for the heating? What happens then? Then there is the social component of the state, whether it subsidizes and does not have to pay or forgive them, reprogramme debts, or already has a model. What do you want? That private does that? You expect a private person to tolerate me as a heating user, why don't I pay? No, he's handling economic logic, and that's normal, and that's why the private sector can't be dominant here, because these are actions, these three actions have a social dimension and a social aspect in the country that you've destroyed economically. That's the problem, and that's why we're against this. When you build institutions, I hope that you will no longer have the opportunity to have one district attorney, that no one in the shadow can stop him, then you will be able to count on institutions that are willing to deal with a private sector that distributes water or collects sewage. Now, when the institutions of the state are silent and let the problems of public utility and services go out of date, don't tell us what you're not dealing with Miskovic, which you're not dealing with with someone who owes you 500 billion dinars in the name of taxes and contributions, to see how much money you're going to make for the sewer. We said very clearly, the state has an economic interest in keeping this in its hands because it will be able to offer better services, because the credit lines for these things are very favourable to the state, and the state has an interest because it will invest in infrastructure and increase contributions. The networks are built across Serbia, offerings should be increased by increasing the network and the number of users. It doesn't take a lot of sense, it needs political will, but that's the problem, which you don't have, which is what the state is interested in as last year's snow. That's the problem. Not here to report MPs to praise the minister. The minister is here to defile himself. I agree that there are examples in Serbia where things are correct, where public and private partnerships are established on correct relations, but in one significant minority compared to what is chaos and vehement. Dusan Maric spoke, and here's the contract for POR Weber-Veber from Vladic's Han, what did they promise you by contract, which they don't honor? Containers and transfer stations and participation in expenses, so they don't respect anything. What's the problem? SRS brings you back to communism? In 2006, the IMF came and requested a restructuring of the public sector. Now in 2011, you haven't taken a step in that sense. You don't have a chance anymore, you're done. The people will clear up the next election with you. The people will no longer live in European fantasies. He wants someone to guarantee him a healthy state, a healthy institution. He wants someone to come before him with arguments and say to him, "Yes, today you will give it up because your children will be better, but when you come out with the power of your arguments, no one will blame you for it. Fantasies of yours will no longer listen, that you talk about European values and defend the law, 90% of Europe, the two countries on the European continent private-owned have these sectors of municipal activity, France and Great Britain, and are increasingly less and less believed in the efficiency of the private sector in these areas. It is a general position and opinion in your EU. I'm sick of having to mention them, because of Kim first. We want a session, we want to talk about what's going on, what are your plans and intentions, is someone from the government going to tell us? There's a problem. You let it go, we're bringing you back to communism. You're not out of communism yet. Not only did you not come out, you upgraded it. You're uncommunists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63075	For the sake of the public, Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has four times explained the procedure and deadlines in which a session will be scheduled to discuss the problems at KIM. The word is Mr. Buha Milorad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63076	In his presentation, the minister said that the state had no money to develop municipal activity, and that is, we must say, a notorious lie. The state had money, but she didn't spend it on purpose. She didn't invest in what she got the money for. I'm going to list several cities that have had an intense period of construction, including construction of municipal infrastructure. I'll start with Saturday, since the minister is born there and he knows very well, occasionally goes to Subotica, he knows that in the last 15 years 15-20% of municipal infrastructure has been built in Subotica in 15 years. From what means? From private funds. So there was private participation. The privates were singled out. On what grounds did they stand out? On the basis of certain agreements on the participation of each private person in the municipal construction of the municipal system. Now the question arises, there is no minister, but I hope you'll pass it on to him, the associates present here, what about the involvement of private people who once invested in illegal facilities and sometimes legal objects? They built communal infrastructure and secondary water lines and primary waterways and highways, etc. They invested their own resources, and eventually, when it was all over, when it was taken over by a public undertaking on the basis of a particular contract, private funds went to state capital. Today, almost all utility companies have a problem showing this private participation in their balance sheets. It is a private participation that people purposely invested in the development of municipal infrastructure. Where's half that money now? Is there in the system, is there any in this law or any other law refunding these costs? If a private person participates in municipal construction, he must know why he participates, which is his participation, which is the process of refunding his expenses, or it is a mere gift. In this case, it's a mere gift, because we haven't been built, so neither of these laws speak in any sentence about this own involvement in building municipal infrastructure. Where's the state? The state has received these funds. Companies that deal with the construction of municipal infrastructure received those funds, they charged it. What about those funds that the citizens gave, and they didn't get communal infrastructure? Where are those funds? Does anyone know that? Does anyone care? Does the minister and his crew in today's ministry know what size of funds, does anyone follow? No one's following that. We don't have relevant data at the state level on how much the municipal enterprise has built in this way, in that way, etc., everything about the municipal infrastructure. Do they know that in local self-government? They don't know. It's one hopelessness in the communal system. That is why We say to you: "It is not worth all this to you, because you have not solved the matter of the vitals. You have to start from the roots. You've got the root, you've got the leaves, and there's nothing there. It comes autumn, leaves fall, calls again, falls again, etc. We don't have a system. You have to make a strategy. Without strategy, it doesn't work. You can't give it to the private sector. The Serbian Radical Party says – you should allow people to invest and invest. The minister says they're not. They did, they invested. There was a private partnership. People built seconds in every city, in every village where refugees came after 1995, and even others. They built, they worked, and they trusted it. It's their means. It's the resources of the citizens. They invested and created, but there was no host to fertilize it, to advance it, and to create a rounded system, and the predominantly state is not the host of this area. When we talk about privatisation, look, it's a jargon, but you have to have a law that will also enable a public private partnership with clear indicators. Now it's not a debate here, but it's about these two laws. Article 5 of Mr. Stevanovic and his amendment clearly point out which forms of privatisation can be regulated, i.e. which instruments allow citizens to participate and what their rights are. You do not have this clearly defined either in this law or in the Public Private Partnership Act. You'll leave that to local self-government and then there's crime. We heard from Mr. Maric, we know how to do it in practice. You deal with two people in a public utility company or with people in the municipality, the president of the municipality, the president of the assembly or some head of the assembly, and then it's a private job. Public business gives us a private job. Where's your social card? This government has been talking for years about making a social map. Subsidy in the field of municipal activity cannot go without a social map. We're stalling, it's taking too long, etc. I can't without a social ticket to release certain categories of population who can't settle this high utility fee. Most importantly, the main cause of inflation in the last ten years has been the intense growth of municipal services and other public service since 1 January. Inflation in January is 3-4%, in February 2%, etc., just because the public sector raises prices. This is where the state is missing. That's where you're missing as authorities. You don't care about that. What do you care about the citizens of Serbia, what do you care about an ordinary citizen, let him pay, should pay. He wants a quality favor, and he needs to pay. Well, he should pay, but he has to know, he can't do that public- system javazlu, it can't be a citizen of Serbia today, it can't calm down, it can't reconcile everything that you do through various criminal activities by breaking that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63077	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I have done, is being advertised by Mr Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63078	I'm sorry, I'm not advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm just interested, I can't believe we don't have an authorised representative? I personally believe that we are in a principle debate, that someone has been specifically authorized, not the head of a parliamentary group or deputy chief, so if you can only see with the secretary who he is, that we would know about the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63079	Thank you for this suggestion. We'll run a background check, but as far as I know, there were no authorities, but the papers are talking. The word is Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63080	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, the MPs, as far as communal activity is concerned, must be one of the most important actions regarding the lives and standards of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Many, however, believe that these municipal activities are arranged in the city of Belgrade, far from the truth. Just on concrete suggestions and examples, and regarding this article 10, on which I have submitted the amendment, I will say how and what is on the Leader. Communal activity, first of all, involves supplying drinking water. I will note that Ripanj, one of the largest settlements in the municipality of Voždovac, although it is 21st century, has no quality water supply day. Today they have water only during the winter months, and when the summer months come and the gardens are watered and the rest of them remain completely waterless. I must remind you that the Danube settlements have countless sources that are completely untapped. When it comes to taking out garbage, too, this problem is not only for Vozdovac, but also for all the northern municipalities of the city of Belgrade, where after seven days it is not for garbage, or once in seven days, and that citizens are obliged to put down their garbage directly in front of their houses. The management of municipal waste, the removal of atmospheric and waste water, the scarcity of the sewerage network is a lack in all Danube settlements, starting with Kumodraž village, Ojnica, Rakovica village, Beli Potok, Zuce, Pinosava, Ripanj has no municipal network. What's even more tragic, Dušanovac, Lekino Brdo, Marinkova Bara, and today they don't have a complete sewerage network. Today people have septic caves, and today they're wildly attached to sewers. It's the head of the cemetery. Cemetery also, Jajinci, Kumodraž village, Kumodraž, Pinosava, do not have enough capacity, there is nowhere to bury the dead. The city's not responding. The municipalities do not purchase adjacent parcels, i.e. surrounding parcels, to solve this problem. The drinkers are also a problem on the Leader. For 20 to 30 years there has been no main hall with cooling devices for the sale of milk, dairy products, eggs and other essentials. Maintaining public green areas, chimney services, paid absolutely by all citizens of Belgrade, and no one uses them. When it comes to the quality of municipal activity, it implies, first of all, the quality of services and the quality of prices. What is provided for in Article 10(2) is that the study of justification is to be prepared when the president of the municipality, or the mayors, requires the study of justification. I'm talking about a study of justification when two or more municipalities join together to make this quality of service better, so that the price of services is lower. What the SRS proposes to do with this amendment is not to be done by the presidents of the municipalities, or the mayors, but rather to do with a larger municipal, or city council, because Article 11, which is next, it is said that if, on the basis of these results of the study of this law, it determines the justification for the joint exercise of municipal activity, the municipal, or city council of the local self-government unit, it is this proposal. Since they are already in matter, why not both municipal and city councils present a proposal to make a study and thus improve the way in achieving lower quality of prices and better quality services at the level of the municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63081	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. This time is scheduled for the debate of the SRS parliamentary group to be used. For information, authorised representatives on points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda are: MP Siniša Stamenković, PUPS parliamentary group; MP Elvira Kovac, Manjina parliamentary group; MP Milisav Petronijevic, SPS parliamentary group – JS and MP Radoslav Milovanovic, MEP ZES. That's so there's no confusion. Therefore, there is no authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Mr. Krassic, you can't get the word, because there's no more time. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63082	Thus, Chapter 5 regulates issues of communal activity for two or more units of local self-government. Wherever it comes to carrying out municipal activities for several units of local self-government, it must be said that there are mainly bigger jobs. When it comes to bigger jobs and bigger projects, it's normal to need more money. Where more money is in circulation, there seems to be bigger crocodiles. You, Article 11 of paragraphs 2 and 3, whose removal I have requested, predict that a municipal, or city council may be authorised for some issues that, as you say, do not suffer delays, that the city council may also make a decision. Our view is that the city council should not decide on these joint actions, that it should be decided solely by the local assembly and that there is no such activity to be transferred to the city council, that it is decided on. In paragraph 3, you predict that within three months local self-government will adopt this agreement. What's with the deadline? We're wondering why you need a three-month deadline. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia is quite spatially small. I say unfortunately, because only we Serbian radicals fight that all Serbs live in Serbian countries. If this were the case, we certainly wouldn't be against it for three months. Otherwise, we really do, since that's not the case and until that happens, this three-month deadline is way too long. It's enough for this deadline to be a month, that's more appropriate. Finally, where these local self-governments are, how far away they are from each other, so that the deadline could not be for a month, so that they could not sign the agreement within a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63083	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 17th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who has a word. Here you go. As far as time goes, there is only power for Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, as an authorised representative, who will have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63084	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, when commenting on certain legislative proposals, we are always looking for the motives of the promoter. Because of the harmonisation with EU regulations, we are not interested and fortunately, an increasing number of Serbian citizens, the percentage has passed 50 and is growing more and more from day to day. I've tried specifically to see what the promoter is in the way of one of these laws. It is certain that Mr. Stevanovic did not understand for certain, and when he talked about some privatisations, he meant not specifically this bill, but about you, trying to give the job to other entities, rather than to public enterprises within the framework of communal activity. Since it didn't work out the way you wanted it to, there was a specific example of Big City, a Greek company got a job taking out trash, right after the tender founded a daughter company, there was a company: one company – one employee, and since it didn't work out, the citizens of Big City recognized, there was a problem, changed power. Similar problems were in the Great Plan. You are now proposing a law that could solve these problems. What we have had so far, even though it is said – the maximum time limit for those who receive municipal activity is 25 years, given the investment, given their participation in the infrastructure in municipal activities, you have always assigned 25 years. This law neither leads to improvement of services, nor to costing of services, nor to job creation, there is nothing that is favourable to citizens. The minister said he didn't have the funds. This country had money, they were misdirected. Let's not talk about where the money went from Kolubara and from a number of other firms. In the garden of Baja, only construction is the announcement that the citizens did not pay nearly a million dinars for heating one heat. The largest number is correct and safe consumers, but there is no way they can pay for it. Here you suggest that the prices of utility services will increase, but you don't talk about how to raise the standard of citizens so that they can send out these municipal services without their survival and existence being compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63085	The 19th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted the 20th amendment. Mr. Ljubenović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed an amendment in front of the SRS on Article 20. Proposal for a Community Labour Act. The amendment to Article 20 proposes a reduction in the time limit within which the owners of the vehicles, belongings and other items are obliged to take over before being sold by the operator in order to settle the costs of the procedure of submission, deckery and other costs. The legislator prescribed that the deadline be 120 days, which the SRS considers to be too long, so the amendment proposed that this deadline be reduced to 60 days. The promoter leaves the possibility for each local self-government unit to set a deadline by its own decision, but that the deadline cannot be shorter than 120 days. We thought that for the owner of the vehicle, things and other objects could cause high cost of the deck, which is really unnecessary. Anyone who's got something removed from a certain place will notice he's gone and will look for it. Within 60 days, the costs will be double that of 120 days. It may occur that if it is an older vehicle or an object that the cost of the deck is greater than its value and that the owner should buy it again from the perpetrators of the communal activity that removed it. In this way, savings would also be achieved in terms of space for disposal, as the fact that things are being taken twice as quickly will require double less space. This is part of the arguments for which this amendment of the SRS should be adopted and I hope that a representative of the Government or a minister who is not here will be reasonable enough to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63087	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. The people of MP Zivojin Stankovic submitted an amendment proposing that a title be added above the members and members of 22a, which were adopted by the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 23 of the amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have submitted an amendment to Article 24. He was accepted by the proposing representative at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. The word is Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63088	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't in the O.R. right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SVM MPs have tabled an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a Law on Community Works, more specifically at Item 1(1). For the sake of the public, I will read it - to add after the words "financial reports": "on the basis of methodology, education and correction of the price of utility services". Namely, our main complaint, the SVM MP we have formulated in the amendment, refers to the setting of the price of municipal services. In the proposal for a law on municipal activities, it is proposed that the elements for determining the price of municipal services be 1) business expenditures shown in the accounts and financial reports, 2) expenditures for the construction and reconstruction of municipal infrastructure facilities and the acquisition of equipment according to adopted programmes and plans of public service contractors to which the units of local self-government give consent, which we agree and consider to be extremely significant, 3) the purpose of setting the price is the very gain of a public worker. We agree with the second and third element of price fixing, but I would like to point out once again - this bill suggests that one of the elements for determining the price of municipal services be precisely business expenditures shown in business books and financial reports, which, when we look at it, is totally fine and acceptable. However, economists believe that such a proposal, without speculating, leaves the user of municipal services unnecessarily burdened with additional costs and therefore the user is unnecessarily burdened with higher prices of utility services. In this way, we proposed that after the part "business expenditures shown in business books and financial reports" be added that these actual costs be determined by the methodology for education and correction of public service prices and this would result in real costs and that the same actual costs would be determined and the price of utility services. Our main goal was not to burden additional users of utility services by potentially increasing prices. Our amendment has not been accepted. The Government's reply, i.e. an explanation of why the amendment was not accepted, is as follows. Among other things, it reads: "business expenditures are the kind of expenditure that are exclusively related to business and as such are shown in business books". We really hope that this will be so in the future and that our appeal that users of municipal services are not burdened with higher prices has really reached the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63089	National MP Srdjan Mikovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 25a be added after article 25a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Radoslav Milovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Moisilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have submitted an amendment to Article 26. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63090	Article 27 of this Act refers to the subsidisation of certain categories of users of municipal services. Be careful how through the law all those incriminating SRS attitudes are confirmed in relation to this law. We just said that distribution, if I may say water sales, that kind of utility service because of the general economic situation in the country really requires subsidisation. It's not just about Serbia, it's about everywhere. Indeed, there is a real need for subsidisation in the sector of municipal activity in certain sectors. There are those internal subsidies that don't go directly from the budget. These are internal subsidies, as they are called, within the framework of utility companies where the other non-profit sector of the same company is financed on a one-stop-shop basis, etc. But these are subsidies that need to be determined by the local self-government unit. The government says this - the local self-government unit can identify categories of users of municipal services that pay the subsidized price of the municipal service and the amount of the subsidy. We're looking for a local self-government unit to determine the category. Do you know what they wrote in an explanation why they refuse the amendment? "Amendment is rejected for reasons that it is not in conformity with the law to oblige the local self-government unit to determine categories of users of municipal services that pay a subsidized price for each municipal service." What are we going to commit them to? What are we going to commit them to, and who's going to commit them if it's not the law? It doesn't mean that if you say in the law that the local self-washing unit determines both users and the amount of subsidies that it has to be and that you artificially invent users who will be subsidized, but where there is a need for state subsidies, that's what local self-government has to do. This is very trendy. This creates a space for local self-governments to amnesty themselves to subsidize those users who will eventually sell services to private companies, i.e. companies in majority private ownership. This is a manifestation of social irresponsibility. The state's problem is that local self-government is bound, and it's not a problem that, in case it's defined in the law, she won't have to do it. You are now boasting about social responsibility. It's a state, it's the Republic of Serbia, it's a local self-government, it's a legislator, and it's a social responsibility. There. Who's right now? Neither do you deny the need for subsidies to this sector. Why don't we just end up in control of the state, at least these actions we're talking about. That's why you didn't accept this, that's why the government doesn't accept this, that's why the minister won't sit here. This law does not respect the needs, nor understands the current state of affairs on the ground. Maybe they understand it and they won't accept it and they don't want to put it into the law. The Serbian Radical Party today has an obligation to tell the public. To tell the public that even such a difficult economic opportunity as we are in will not be able to change the fact that private capital will enter the utility sector. And this really provides, so it provides and creates opportunities and creates a basis that users of municipal services tomorrow have real problems in paying the utility services they will be offering, possibly some private form, or public enterprise, whose founder is local self-government. He says, it's not the law, so what's the whole obligation? Who can force a local self-government unit to do something if it's not the Parliament and the law? It's a bit of a ride, so give them some space to ride around here. I think you should have accepted that. This would in no way endanger local self-government, but would give certain security to users of municipal services.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63091	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted it. There's no answer for word. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have submitted an amendment to Article 30 and has been accepted by the proposing representative at the meeting of the Committee. There's no answer for word. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted it. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted it. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63092	We have asked here that this deadline applies, otherwise these are within the framework of the transitional and final provisions of the position of performers of communal activity. Paragraph 1 states that the forms between municipal co-operation established until the date of entry into force of this law must comply with the provisions of this law, no later than 2 years. Watch out, two years from the day of entry into force of this law. Now look, absurd. Just before Mr. Ljubenovic spoke, prescribed deadline, let's say in one situation for old cars or some other things that lift or withdraw, the minimum time limit for taking them by the owner is 120 days. Look out, it's four months. For four months, someone will guard something and wait for someone to remember to come and collect it, and the promoter explains, you know, a 60-day deadline is short. This is not about the longest term, it's about the shortest time in which the solution is prescribed that the one whose owner comes for it. So it's about this amendment. But here's a very strange situation. We do have a problem with deadlines and that deadline where we asked that local self-governments have to confirm contracts at their local parliaments within a month on this among the municipal co-operation, that's where the three-month deadline is put. In particular, the State has prescribed a three-month period to impose temporary measures on local self-government and is also given as much to local self-government to make decisions concerning the confidence of activity of general interest, i.e. communal activity. Be careful what kind of distance it is and how much it is, to say the least, recklessly and unfoundedly considered and taken into consideration. Here, documents are required, be careful, on the basis of which they were established between municipal co-operation in accordance with the law for two years. First, the problem is that, among municipal co-operation so far, it has not had adequate legislation to establish itself. And Minister Dulic congratulated those local self-governments, which were not passed by the law, but without legal regulation, the legislation entered into such arrangements, on the courage to step forward, although it was not in line with the appropriate legislation, which you are now adopting. Public private partnership, municipal work, property, etc. And now you, you're bound by the government, by the Ministry, to bring in all sublaws related to this law within six months, and local self-government, or all of these forms between municipal co-operation, have two years to bring their documents into line with this. And you say in an explanation, the deadline is inappropriate and not adequate. What are they gonna do for a year? My men, the child walks in a year. In a year? Where's the responsibility? Where's the efficiency? The Serbian Radical Party simply can't understand what the proposing's motive is, what you want and if everything goes the way it's written, we can really assume that it's going to be a belief in communal activity. We call once again on you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the absent minister, if any, to examine his position and attitude towards the amendment to Article 5. We've given you enough arguments, we hope that we've assured you that water supply, but as you say it's already accepted on the board, sewerage and heat, we believe that because of the nature of municipal activity, social, economic, political, security aspects must be dominant in state control, or companies where most of them have state capital. We call you again, question it. It's not too late, don't let all this happen to Serbia, we're bringing the noose around our necks, so don't let the experience of privatisation, of turning public sector make a mistake that we didn't have to make, and today the SRS has shown you very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63093	National MP Srdjan Mikovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added after article 42a. The governments of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 42a be added after Article 42a. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to a search in the details of the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a RUDING LAW AND GEOLOGICAL RESEARCH. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Živojin Stanković, together Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond, Milisav Petronijevic, Djordje Milicevic, Miletić Mihajlović, Dusan Marić, Vlad Milojković, Radiša Ilic, Milan Avramović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Dobrislav Prelić, Nikola Savic, Dusanka Plečević, Zoran Popović, Ljubomir Kragović, together Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đurić, Aleksandar Pejčić, together Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojrić, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Đurić, Lodi Gabor and Dejan Nikolic. You have received a report from the Committee on Industry and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63094	The essence of the SRS amendment is the following -- the government has proposed that the mining company, after the completion of the works, has an obligation to finance the return of land to its original state. We have suggested that these obligations be extended, i.e. that the company has an obligation to return the land to its original state. So we're not interested in how, if the company will do it alone, with its own capacities, whether it will pay someone or find someone who will voluntarily do it to them. The government has accepted this amendment and that's good. As good as it is, the best way to see it is to look at the shores of our rivers. Here, first of all, I mean the shores of the Great Morava and the shore of the Drina, downriver from Zvornik. By extracting gravel, uncontrollably extracting gravel, which takes place especially in the last 20 years, the shores of these rivers have been completely destroyed in certain parts. You have hundreds of places where sand, mineral raw materials on Moravi, the Drina and other rivers have been removed, but I say there is not one place where whoever pulled the pebble shore has returned to its original state. That's not gonna happen even after this law. The main reason this will not happen is that this area, the extraction of sand in Serbia, controls the mafia. This job makes money annually in Serbia, I'm talking about profit, a few dozen million euros. It is estimated that only on the part of the coast of the Morava River in progress through the territory of the municipality of Great Plana, the Peasant Mafia, due to several tens of thousands of euros. To figure out what the number is, I'm paying attention to the fact that the budget of the Great Plan Municipality... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63095	Thank you. Time's up. The Committee on Industry submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (De. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63096	The essence of our amendment is that, among the measures and activities in what you call mineral policy, the obligation to resuscitate land over which geological research or mining or other excavations are carried out. The purpose of the amendment is the same as the purpose of the amendment that we have submitted to Article 8. However, this amendment was adopted by the Government on Article 8, and this amendment is not accepted on the following grounds – the amendment is not accepted for reasons because Article 11(1) of the Law after point 3) of the Law states that the mineral policy covers and measures of harmonisation and application of the European directives in the field of mining and geological research, especially in the field of labour and environmental protection, etc. So, the government rejects the amendment by relying on European directives, without concreteising what it refers to, what it is specifically about. We believe that environmental protection measures must be stated in the law. When someone breaks the law, so when a judge makes a verdict on this law tomorrow he will not be able to explain the verdict – because it is written in European directives that we make such a judgment. He will have to specify a member of the law and that law that we are adopting today. That's why I don't see why the government doesn't accept this amendment. I'd go back to what I was saying about exploiting gravel in the Great Plan Municipality. There, the mafia earns tens of thousands of euros annually, and the municipality's budget is only eightm euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63097	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đurić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. It's a bill of law. Otherwise, Article 30 is set out in Section 6 – approval for applied geological research. This amendment requires that paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 be deleted in Article 30. Geological research is in itself very important for the economy of a country. That is why we predicted that the applied geological research was carried out only on the basis of a solution issued by the ministry, meaning, for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. You stated this in the first position of Article 30, and that's good, but what you wrote in paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 devalues the intelligence of the ministry itself. In the territory of the AP, a solution for applied geological research is issued by the competent authority of the AP, which logically sets the dilemma where the state of Serbia is. We know well that the Statute of the Duke of Malta did not disenfranchise itself around many public, financial and economic activities on the territory of the Vojvodina. Geological research is actually a broader concept and includes other activities than, say, research, ore and mineral raw materials. So there are geological research in construction, for spatial planning, urbanism, in the process of protecting the environment, then for military purposes, etc. We believe that, when it comes to strategic geological research, the main word in all of this should be the Republic of Serbia, that is, the resolution ministry. As a result, a country was created in the country, partly due to EU pressures that are rapidly collapsing, and partly due to the blackmailing demands of small coalition partners in the current ruling coalition. We think that the state should take more account of the ease of enabling individual companies, mostly foreign ones, that are doing geological research in Serbia with the aim of finding deficit raw materials that will likely be exploited later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63099	Thank you. The 30th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lodi Gabor. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63100	Thank you. The government has accepted this amendment that I have submitted to Article 44 on behalf of the SRS. Proposal for a law on mining and geological research. Article 44 refers to the obligations of the research operator and has 12 points which define those obligations. This amendment refers to item 9 which states that one of the researchers' obligations is to return to the original state of the land on which the investigative works are carried out and bring the same to the original purpose. The amendment proposes to delete the second part of the sentence, for it only repeats what is written in the first part of the same sentence. By formulating that the research operator is obliged to return to the original state of the land on which the research works are carried out, the obligation to bring the land to the original purpose is also covered. We of the SRS Parliament Club think it is good that several of our amendments have been accepted and that the text of the law in these several members will be improved. That is good, for it is important that the laws adopted in this congregation be better. Namely, this is important because of the citizens of Serbia, not because the proposer stated in the explanation, because of the necessary alignment with EU directives. We from the SRS will not enter the EU, and in line with the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which the Republic of Serbia undertakes to gradually comply with the EU's legal assets, as well as its consistent application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63101	Thank you. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted it. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted it for the word no one is answering. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word has Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63102	Thank you. The government has proposed that competitions for geological research be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that is normal, but also in "The Official Messenger of the EU", which is not normal for us, and that is why we have proposed to delete it, because Serbia is not an EU member. If we accept that there is a need for these competitions to be announced abroad, why would they do so only in the EU Official Messenger? Why don't we do this in the official messengers of Russia or the official messenger of the Republic of China? I don't know what the EU deserves to be this favored. If economic reasons are at stake, China and Russia are in this case a more stable economy, these EU countries, which are now falling apart, have been begging Russia and China for months to provide economic assistance. If it is political reasons, China and Russia are our friendly countries, which could not be said about the EU. The European Union, I recall, played a key role in breaking both Yugoslavia, the EU took part in the bombing of the SRJ, in which three thousand were killed and 15 thousand were wounded. Through EULEX, the European Union has kidnapped KIM and has created a new state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For the last argument, the EU has been offering a stick and carrot policy to Serbia and the Serbian people for 20 years. For 20 years, all we've got on the Serbian back is a stick. There's no sign of this carrot. In December, you expect to get a positive opinion on the candidacy. You announce that in 2029 you will be given the starting date of the negotiations, that in 2389, a thousand years from the Kosovo battle, you will become members of the EU. And the citizens are only interested in one thing – when will this European carrot?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63103	Thank you. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Arsen Djuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 81st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on mining and geological research and on a member of this 81st law. In my amendment, I asked that, in addition to the other things provided for by the law, such as proof of a paid republican and administrative taxi, evidence of a mining project, mandatory delivery of evidence, or photographic and video from the field of interrogation. I thought that for reasons that in today's time when technique has progressed to a level that does not pose any problem, that such a thing is both necessary and very necessary. But this is not only because the technique has progressed, but there is a concrete reason, because without these videos and photographic records, it is possible to carry out certain abuses of those doing geological and mining research. Today, these are mostly foreign companies, because our companies are unfortunately not qualified to conduct such tests. These foreign companies can hide information about their research or provide incomplete data to the state of Serbia and thus damage the citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That such a thing is possible and that such a thing is done in practice we have a lot of evidence, where in the world of various companies there are disputes about some areas, and even wars, I say, resources and who will have jurisdiction over these resources. I'll just remind you that the first Gulf War started by getting the Iraqis with horizontal drills, and they literally got those horizontal drills under the ground into Iraqi territory and stealing their oil. We know what happened after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63105	Thank you. The 82nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Arsen Djuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 85th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 104th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Committee on Industry has tabled an amendment to Article 104. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 106th amendment, MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric submitted together. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. On the 107th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63106	In the context of Chapter 8 of the safeguard measure, Article 107 speaks about what the economic operator should do with regard to the safety of the protection of the health of employees. The amendment refers to point 1 of this article and reads – office and safety and health protection of workers at work. Compared to the proposed text, the amendment is more precise and linguistically correct than what the Government has proposed, because the economic operator cannot possibly regulate the health of the employees. The carrying out of any business activity carries a certain risk to the health of employees and this is particularly expressed in heavy business, such as mining operations. Therefore, economic operators are obliged to make their own rules under the Labour Protection Act. The health of miners can be compromised both in research and in the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In the design and equipment of mines, whether it is a cave or a surface exploitation, measures must be respected and implemented to protect the health of miners and to ensure all safety measures in the event of accedent situations such as collapse, fire, the occurrence of toxic gases and the like. The employer must provide all means necessary to protect the health of people in mines, from protective clothing and shoes, protective masks, glasses, visors, helmets, safety belts, ropes and other special equipment in mining. In addition, regular medical controls on specific diseases, such as silicon or others, are also necessary. Health is also maintained by appropriate training of employees, in order to reduce the possibility of injury to work, respect for labour discipline, respect for prescribed measures of protection at work and to avoid prolonged work, in order to eliminate the factor of man as a cause of insecurity at work and the deterioration of employee health. All of this employer must ensure that the work in the mine is carried out with minimal risk to the health of miners.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63107	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In order for the MP to get the word, he must log into the electronic system and, of course, get the word. Here, Mr. Zoran Popovic has a word for general pleasure. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63108	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is widely accepted that mining underground rooms, as well as other mining facilities where methane and other flammable gases can appear, are places where fire risk is very pronounced. The accidents that occurred in underground mining rooms because of the appearance of the methane only warn that anything more accurate should be predicted in this section. No improvisation should be allowed here. It must not be allowed to be interpreted by what is said – these definitions are uncontested to include a ban on the introduction of an open flame. That's what you say in your explanation why you don't accept this amendment. I'll remind you that in Article 113, point 1 neither of you mention the word "open flame" in any place, because the word "smoking kit", then the words "lightly flammable matter", which you use, do not represent an open flame. An open flame assumes an already lit tool that is entered into the pit rooms where methane can appear. This tool is not only lit, but the flame is absolutely unprotected and it represents a direct cause of the burning of methane. Therefore, it is necessary to explicitly provide for a ban on the introduction of an open flame into these mining facilities. It's inappropriate to say in such more sensitive cases that something is assumed. So I suggest you accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-09-0.u63109	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to article 119. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond together submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đurić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Committee on Industry has tabled an amendment to Article 136. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Elvira Kovač, Balint Pstor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 137th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Committee on Industry has tabled an amendment to Article 137. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Industry Committee have also accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Committee on Industry has tabled an amendment to Article 146. It's a bill of law. The government has also accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This has exhausted our plan of work today. We continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours by discussing the draft law on regulation of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the debtors of public funds for commitments made on foreign loans, i.e. loans and debates on the draft law on gambling. I wish you good luck.
