ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62491	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to place their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. In the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present and another number of MPs are present at the National Assembly Hall, so that the Rules of Procedure set out the conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic on MP Momo Colakovic. We are continuing a joint search of the 13th and 14th points of the agenda, and this part of the session, where Members of Parliament have the right to speak and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search of the draft laws referred to in points 13 and 14 of the agenda. The last registered speaker on the list of those who want to take the word is MP Zoran Krasic, and the time available to MP Zoran Krasic from the total time of the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes and before I give the word, I would like to make an apology to MP Zoran Popovic, as well as to the similarity of the votes, I asked yesterday during the session not to interfere with the discard, he did not throw. My apologies to Parliamentarian Zoran Popovic, with the hope that together we will all participate in maintaining order at the session and that we will not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62492	Well, if you apologized to me, there's no problem. To finish this story on amendments to the Foreign Trade Act and public-private partnership relations and concessions. Yesterday we really talked a lot about this first bill, and there's a little bit left to say about this second one that's on the agenda. The public-private relationship is, in fact, a partnership between state property representatives and private property representatives in carrying out economic activities that concern activity of general interest. The real example of this is communal activity. You can imagine what it'll look like in Serbia. Yesterday I reminded you that we had one variant at Mobtel, so Karic was on the run because he was dragging and spending on state capital. We have a lot of people who have made a significant fortune, especially since 2000, and today they have so much money that they need new challenges, like businessmen. Since they have already taken up monopolies in some activities, municipal infrastructure and municipal activities remain. In terms of lack of funds in local self-government units for the development of these activities, here they are -- rescue tycoons. Of course, the monopoly will be restored. This will be both in parking and in sewers, taking out garbage, transport, heating, cleaning, maintenance of residential buildings, elevators. Who's going to affect the cost of utility after? Who will participate in setting that price when you changed election laws a few months ago and allowed every tycoon to buy a free term? Then you'll have the situation, after the next election, that all units of local self-government, all of which are over-indebted, will seek salvation in a publicly-private partnership relationship. With who? With tycoons, because they're the only ones who have the means. Who's gonna approve this job? A unit of local self-government where free councils are under the control of the same tycoon. From the state monopoly, we will make a public-private partner monopoly, and then a private partner in this relationship will also be able to book through both costs and through the costs, whether it will show a profit that is a different question, and the question is whether a profit should occur there because in the communal activities of the price of municipal services should be adapted to the payment opportunities of the population from a given space. You say that's a European standard. What do we care? We won't be in the EU anyway. Which would make us bound to do something about the European Commission, the EU, when we will never be members. You can see that both the sparrows on the branches and this great sparrow have realized that there is nothing from the EU, or they are now in a state of decomposition, since they have heard that we should come there. Something's going on. So, what you are calling for European standards, I am extremely pleased, it will be important to help us with the next campaign, but this public-private partnership relationship is about like a coalition capacity. You know, in Serbia, there's a saying – you don't eat a place from a mate's mare, because it's sour. In Serbia, no partner can succeed, between father and son, between two brothers, and the partnership between state property and private property is always at the expense of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're pushing this one too. Why? Someone told you there is a European standard, although in that statement you stated that there is no standard, that there is no compliance obligation. If you go from principle - you need money, but people, after so much debt, is it possible that you still need money? You can't be in second place, now you want to be in charge of who? At Miskovic's or Beck's or these? Aman, collect from them claims that have a state. Terrible things happen. Here, you see, we are now able not only to say in advance what will happen to some of your initiatives, but all of these citizens understand this without an explanation, and without an explanation, they realize that it is one of the most common media pranks, fraud and the establishment of new monopolies, that the rich are even richer, and that the poor are even poorer. The second point of your joint program of this government is the struggle for social justice. So how can you talk about social justice and the state owes citizens, its citizens? Here, these twenty minutes, to rush into the EU, I'm buying you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62493	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If so, please sign in to the electronic system so that you can use your right to speak in this part of the session stream. As no one wants to speak, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Trade Act and the proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Variety. Before opening a principle search on the agenda point before us, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly today that during the working day, we will open and discuss the joint principled review of the Amendment Act and the additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varietyers and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, with the fact that the usual period of one hour will be determined after the search of the point that will be opened, and if necessary, we will work after 18.00 hours until the completion of the joint principle search on the 16th and 17th points of the agenda. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of members of each member of the Parliament's group, and that: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for the word and with the order of the MPs. On the basis of Article 96(4), applications for a word shall be received until the opening of a principled search or a joint single search of the agenda point, so I ask you that whoever has not yet submitted a list of MPs who wish to participate in the debate, do so immediately. I would also like to inform you that according to these points of the Parliament's agenda, the following MPs will be: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic - PUPS MP; MP Arpad Fremond - the Manjin parliamentary group; MP Zoran Bortic - the SPS - JS and MP Milorad Krstin - the SRS parliamentary group. If any other MPs want to have the authority of a member, please inform us that we may inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Dusan Petrovic, the minister of agriculture, trade, forestry and water industry want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62494	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Contaminants came into force on 10 June 2009. It is a special form of protection of intellectual property, which is very important for the progress of our agriculture and represents one of the essential things that introduces order or order in one area where different things have happened that have not opened up the possibility that this type of activity should be raised to the level as much as possible in our country. These amendments and additions aim to comply with the existing law, which, as I said, has recently been adopted, with all the provisions of the 1991 Convention that will open the door for our country to enter the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. So, by adopting these amendments and supplementing the existing law, we will create all the assumptions that Serbia, all those who are engaged in this activity in our country, have the opportunity to use all the benefits of international legal protection, that plant breeders from Serbia come to the opportunity to achieve this protection abroad. We are a country that has a very significant export of this kind of goods. On the other hand, it will seem more accessible than it is at this point and access to genetic and genetic material, which will allow for the development of this type of activity and of all institutes, as well as others that deal with this kind of work. So there will be assumptions that we raise our system in the production of quality varieties to a higher level than at this point. The Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management has carried out all the necessary consultations with the competent bodies in the International Union to protect new plant varieties and these changes and additions that are presently in front of you are one agreed text, and if this Parliament is to give consent to the amendment of the law in this way and if such changes and additions come into force, we would no longer be in a position to access this very significant Convention. So, with the entry into force of this law, Serbia is entitled to lay down an instrument of accession to this international organisation, which, through the permanent mission of the Republic of Serbia to the UN in Geneva, points out to the Secretary-General of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. This protection system is one of the most important elements necessary for Serbia to become a member of the WTO, as the WTO fully respects this kind of vision and protection system and considers it sufficient to consider that we have all the instruments we need and need. I'll just say a few sentences. A few things change here, too, with regard to the so-called. material rights, but also a few things about procedures, in a more precise way and in accordance with the Convention, are defined by certain institutes that are important for the determination of new plant varieties, therefore, some of the attributes of new plant varieties, such as diversity, stability. The amendments and additions will be defined in such a way as to comply with this international convention. Also, certain procedural matters are being changed in terms of the procedure that has been arranged here, and it concerns the process of obtaining the rights to protect inseminators. The deadlines for the objection are extended, as this is also in line with the provisions of the Convention, from 30 days to 60 days, which provides greater level and greater protection for all interested parties. It shall also be arranged in an adequate manner and in accordance with the Convention a very important institute, which is a mandatory licence. Namely, no one can use this intellectual good, it is the property of a processor, unless the processor transfers it to other specific legal work and unless others are licensed to do so, unless in specific cases, when there is a public interest which, above all, is viewed in the necessity of creating conditions for food supply to be safe and there are other public interests in respect of certain elemental disasters etc. We have adapted these provisions to the provisions of the international convention, so that we have removed the kind of discrepancy that exists. This isn't a long law. The changes and additions are in front of you. I'm sure there will be some specific issues in the debate. What I'm finally saying is that it's one of the strategic assumptions for the development of our agriculture. In addition to the need for our agricultural producers to have as much experience, skills, knowledge as possible and to have the best possible information on what agricultural policy measures are, on the one hand. On the other hand, in addition to the need for us to have significantly larger areas of land under irrigation than we have today, this is the third pillar that is necessary for the development of agricultural policy, which is that we have the highest quality seed and fruit material, to open up the possibility for all those involved in Serbia, and these are very important institutions with a very long tradition and great achievements, above all I think of institutes, but also of different companies that have entered into this kind of business, therefore, to open up to them the possibility that what their products are protected, not only in Serbia but also on the international level. On the other hand, once again, to open up the possibility for all these institutions to have easier access to their necessary genetic material so that they can improve their work, to provide them with a system of protection, protection procedures and protection and the content of rights, as the most developed countries in Europe and the world have. I urge you to adopt these amendments and amendments to the law and thus open our country to the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62495	I'm asking if they want the word of the committee's informants. (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of fellow Members, in a series of conditions necessary for the full compliance of our and European legislation there is also a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties. We believe that protecting the rights of plant breeders is a special form of protection of the intellectual property of all plant variety producers, both in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in other institutions that co-operate with our institutions. The law as well as the "sui generis" system is internationally recognised and confirmed only by the signing of the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. The convention has been exchanged and complemented to bring new knowledge into line, with new technologies and current scientific achievements. It must be acknowledged that Serbia has not lag behind in this area as it could create an illusion. By passing the 2009 Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights, Serbia has created its own and all real bases and assumptions for the protection of intellectual property on plant varieties. By law confirming the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties 2010, Serbia ratified the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, so-called The 1962 Paris Convention, and then the 1972 Geneva Convention, as well as all amendments and additions to the 1978 and 1991 conventions, making us an equal member of UPOV. However, in order for the Republic of Serbia to UPOV, it is also necessary to make changes and additions to the law in order to comply with world technologies, new scientific solutions and improvements in the quality of the varieties. The PUPS Group has the knowledge that the application of certain legal solutions in practice has often been conditioned by the need to amend and supplement certain provisions of the law to improve the system for the protection of the rights of plant breeders, which is a perfectly correct orientation. We think that this is a very practical solution to the current alignment, but also to the application of new legal provisions that are not only legal provisions, but also a large number of changes in technical, professional and technological character. The Republic of Serbia undertakes by adopting this law to meet all conditions for compliance with world and European standards, as well as to pass an instrument of WTO accession, as someone who has fulfilled obligations under the UPOV Convention, as spoke of by the minister. The law defines reproductive material, with a clear distinction of the materials and products directly obtained from the selected material of the protected plant variety. It is precisely in our society that the intensive activity of all organisations, including the Green Movements, is to protect genetically modified materials, i.e. the decision on whether Serbia will ever deal with these issues, except for scientific and research purposes. We agree that there was some confusion in the earlier interpretation of the UPOV convention. However, the law corrects and makes it much clearer to define the way the variety is estranged, while the plant variety in protected intellectual property is still considered new. We think it's a good orientation, too. It is good that the terms of the variety definition of the variety, as well as the uniformity of the variety, are now in line with the general propositions that apply in the world. We think that it is also a good definition of the stability of plant varieties and that it is in line with the UPP Convention. The law now defines a way of considering the requirements for granting the right of the processor, with a full definition of the scope of that right, but also with the right to determine the conditions under which the varieties will be used. The legislator allows the processor to set his own limits for the use of plant variety, which is fully in line with the UPP Convention. We fully support the provisions of laws that regulate the time during which the processor is entitled to previous protection of intellectual property. Also, the processor has the right, as well as the processor's rights, to previous protection, provided that those rights are granted to him, which is decided by the legislator. The law also addresses the issue of conditions for the issuing of a mandatory licence, and in particular foresees the issuing of a mandatory licence only for reasons of general social interest, while any other reason would be a violation of the processor's right. The law defines procedures with plant varieties in the field of view, but also in the laboratory, as well as other ways of examining the variety and characteristics of the novelty that the variety shows, or wants to display. The PUPS Group supports the law, because it accepts all the real suggestions of the UPOV Council in relation to the replacement of deadlines, for the purpose of delivering a new name of the variety, if the previously protected name has been abolished, then removing any deficiencies in the request, as well as for the supply of additional data and documentation on which a new name is based or objected or the registration is required for the granting of the right of the processor in the register as well as for the supply of another name for the new variety. We are aware that the processing of plants and the creation of new plant varieties is major intellectual work, great scientific technological work, which requires enormous knowledge, but also effort, we are also aware that there is no significant investment in land, in agriculture and livestock production if we do not have the best and best quality plant varieties. Plant processing requires special equipment and long-term and complex training of people working to create new plant varieties. The process of fertilising and creating a new variety lasts for more than 10 years, and it takes the fulfillment of new conditions to make certain varieties live, to be accepted, and only then to become commercial. We must be aware that the reproductive material of the varieties placed on the market is very easily commercially multiplied, and the variety of economically exploited and abused, and the processor was deprived of protection with great loss of gain and of its investment, great effort, knowledge and work. We can also boast that in Serbia today we have recognised more than 1,800 domestic newly created varieties of agricultural plants in which at least 20 institutes and selection houses participated. In addition to domestic plant varieties of war cultures, 130 varieties and vines were created, which is a particularly difficult and complex process in creating new varieties. We would also like to note that we are thinking that now the law regulates all the rights of plant breeders and that this creates a better incentive to invest in the processing of plants in agriculture, better and more efficient access to foreign quality newly created varieties, and above all fruits, vines, decoration plants and other varieties that can be introduced into our production, and so far have not been introduced due to the lack of this law. It is certain that a better approach to a large number of newly protected plant varieties can lead to an increase in revenues from their wide commercial production. The PUPS Group believes that this law will allow farmers better access, favourable production and technological properties and greater yields, greater resistance to pest diseases of various plant varieties. The law will also have a direct impact on the processors themselves, as it will give them the incentive to create new and better plant varieties. With the adoption of a number of amendments aimed at improving the essence and character of the law and its full compatibility with the world's best and European solutions, the PUPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62497	Eight minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that today part of the session from the Great Hall Gallery will be followed by our guests from the Youth Office, Lapovo, 15 of the best students from Lapov. We will welcome Slavoljub Ivković, Nebojsa Miletic, Aleksandr Popovic, Milos Nikolic, Jovana Vlajic, Maja Ilic, Aleksandr Stefanović, Milos Golubović, Jovana Tasic, Miljana Thessaloniki, Sandra Presic, Tatjana Bogdanovic, Aleksandra Kojanic, Vladimir Mihajlovic and Dragan Zlatkovic. Welcome to your house. We're glad the best Lapp students are with us today. MP Arpad Fremond has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62498	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the oldest actions of man in the field of biotechnology is just creating new plant varieties. The biological processes of the creation of plant varieties include the selection and cross-breeding of plants. Sorts created by these procedures are used for nutrition, clothing, but also for other human needs. These traditional methods have given and still yield extraordinary results. If we compare today the varieties created by these methods and their wild relatives, we can hardly spot any similarity at first sight. What characterizes these methods and their inviolability, namely by repeating the same procedure, cannot get the same result. The International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties established the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. The Union represents the sister organisation of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties regulates the protection of plant varieties as a form of protection of intellectual property rights where the variety is protected intellectually well. The law regulates the conditions for the granting of the rights of processors, the procedure for granting rights, the content of the rights of processors, the transfer and admission of rights of use of the protected variety, the termination of the rights of processors, as well as civil - legal protection. The draft amending and supplementing the law mentioned on the agenda is on the agenda. It is extremely important that by the entry into force of this law, the Republic of Serbia will meet the conditions to become a full member of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, and one of the conditions for the Republic of Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation will be met. Plant processing, i.e. the creation of new plant varieties, is a work that requires great knowledge and effort, as well as significant investments in land, equipment and training of people. This is a long-term high-risk process. In our country, around 1,800 domestic newly created agricultural plants were currently recognised, with more than 20 institutes and selection houses participating, with a large number of fertilisers. Unfortunately, of the total number of domestic varieties for 35 years, only 130 varieties of fruit and wine varieties were created. Because of the very nature of these plant species, it is very difficult to prevent unauthorized multiplication, which destimulates fruit and vine pollinators. The solution to this problem is the introduction of a system of protection of plant varieties, i.e. protection of the rights of processors. What can farmers expect from the adoption of this law? agricultural producers are given access to a large number of new protected plant varieties, leading to an increase in revenue from production. The aim of the proposed amendments to these laws is to meet the conditions for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation. These changes will reflect positively on the overall plant production and processing industry, which is also a prerequisite for the free exchange of reproductive material, as well as products generated by the use of protected varieties, which is extremely important. Serbia's membership in UPOV will allow access to a large number of protected varieties that are now inaccessible, which are now characterized by favourable production-technology properties, higher yields, pest resistance. This will also increase the competitiveness of domestic products on the world market. The regulation of the protection of the rights of processors gives a boost to the creation of new plant varieties. Here is a significant interest of the state that should encourage the processing of intellectual creation in the area of the creation of new plant varieties. Our country's entry into UPOV allows domestic inseminators to protect their rights in other countries under the same conditions, but also foreign inseminators to protect their processing rights in our country. By applying the law, we also expect positive effects, primarily in encouraging the creation of new native plant varieties and wider use of foreign quality varieties, which will improve plant production. It is extremely important to mention that the draft law was also attended by a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, respected domestic experts involved in the processing and representatives of organisations engaged in the examination of varieties. It is important to mention that the adoption of the law will create conditions for achieving international co-operation and exchange of the results of the examinations with organisations and institutions and other members of the UPOV that carry out activities to protect the rights of plant breeders. Mr. Minister, we can also conclude that, unfortunately, this year there was no law in the field of agriculture. And this law, which is currently on the agenda, is just the amendment and addition of the law that we passed in 2009. I think we need to pass more laws in the area of agriculture. As the People's MP of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, I think the problem is that we are the strategic branch of the economy – agriculture – we are setting up, or we are creating it on the basis of regulations and regulations, not laws. I don't think regulations and regulations are necessary, but I think we should give greater meaning to the laws. What exactly am I thinking? For example, I mean subsidizing agricultural producers. It is unfair for them to receive subsidies through regulations. You can change the regulation often, even at the government's telephone session. That, in my opinion, is not good. The law is a different matter after all. What happened, for example, this year? The protest of agricultural producers is well known to all of us. It was due to a change in the way the production year subsidized. Agricultural producers simply had no other choice – they were waiting for money, and from the Ministry of Agriculture they even got materials in which there was anything waiting for them during the year. Unfortunately, very little has happened. I consider agriculture to be the greatest evil uncertainty right now. The price is uncertain, the subsidy is uncertain, the state's support is uncertain. Believe me, Mr. Minister, the uncertainty is currently most plagued by our agricultural producers. What to produce, how to, what to be next year, they expect an answer. After the protest, Mr. Minister, you announced that during August or September, we will hold a session of the Agriculture Committee to announce, about, the Ministry of Agriculture programme for 2012, so that our farmers know in advance what awaits them next year. It's not too late for that. Otherwise in countries surrounding farmers, it has already begun. The agricultural production year, we all know well, began on 1 October 2011, for 2012, it is currently going on. It's important to know in advance if there's going to be a subsidy per hectare, because maybe whoever plans to buy something, develop their own land, won't do it if they find out there's no subsidy for him. There's a huge risk in this production and it's familiar to all of us. I urge you, Mr. Minister, to meet as quickly as possible and to present to us concrete measures and plans relating to 2012. I think it's necessary to subsidize agricultural producers and give them support per hectare. The only question is whether it'll be up to 100 acres, up to 50, up to 30 acres, but it doesn't matter. It is important, in my opinion, to subsidize agricultural producers at least 50 hectares. For a family of four, it takes at least that long, for me, to live by a standard. So, a subsidy per hectare is desirable. What is extremely important and should be mentioned is that it is not interested in pre-election campaigns and campaign promises. Unfortunately, there will be those promises. I don't think we can improve this branch of our economy with pre-election promises. We remember well that, before the 2008 elections, the Ministry of Agriculture gave subsidies to every registered agricultural owner a week before the election. I'm afraid that can happen again. But I'm very interested in what registered agricultural producers can count on. Can they count on subsidies per hectare in 2012? I'm also interested in how the Ministry of Agriculture thinks about it. The story is that subsidisation per hectare didn't have any effect, I think it's unrealistic, because in the environment, every country does so, and every country in the area of agriculture is making progress. This is evidence for methods and the EU. Of course, those agricultural producers get more subsidies than our own. So if we continue this way, our agricultural producers will not be competitors on the EU market. We with subsidies can at least maintain agriculture at some level until EU funds are opened and towards our agricultural producers. We must preserve our small agricultural producers and, if we succeed, we can say that they will be easier within the framework of our country's accession to the EU. I know, Mr. Minister, that you have stated that it is unreal right now to talk about how much funds will be in the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget for agriculture, but I think it is not a question right now, but whether it will be a subsidy per hectare. I mean, it's important to know farmers how the Ministry of Agriculture thinks. I'm interested in what agricultural producers will it be, means subsidies, and how many hectares? It's extremely important to them. It's extremely important for them, it interests our agricultural producers most. Of course, our farmers are the most from Vojvodina, counting on the funds that await them in January. All those agricultural producers who have more than 30 hectares on their land, I think, I hope this will be foreseen by the 2012 budget, these funds, because they are promised. These are some questions and suggestions, Mr. Minister, on our part, as far as agriculture is concerned in the global world, on the current side. In the end, I want to say that we SVM MPs will vote for this law. It is positive that the adoption of this law will meet the conditions for the Republic of Serbia to become a member of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. One of the conditions will be met for the Republic of Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation. So, once again I want to say that SVM MPs will vote for this bill, you have our support, Mr. Minister, on this matter. And on the other hand, I urge you, Mr. Minister, to hold a session of the Agriculture Committee as soon as possible and to present to us what your plans are in the Ministry of Agriculture in 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62499	Eleven minutes and 50 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62500	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, belongs to a set of strategic laws that should ensure that agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia acquires the legitimacy of the strategic economic branch. This law, along with other laws that regulate agricultural production, should create normative assumptions that new knowledge and new technologies are introduced into agriculture and thus put into place all resources and any assumptions that will allow Serbia to become an inescapable factor and a desirable partner at the global food market. We will ensure legislation that food production is brought into line and standardised according to the rules that exist in this area in EU and World Trade Organisation norms. In order to make this possible, we in Serbia need to provide conditions for our agricultural producers, in all parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to open up opportunities for the maximum use of the various comparative advantages our country has in food production. Among the different comparative advantages that we should see and affirm as a legislative authority, we must also create conditions, that all our agricultural producers, or all those people who live in our villages and are engaged in different branches of agriculture, must have, at least in a legal sense, equally stimulating conditions to deal with their own production, regardless of the property they have. In other words, we in agricultural production must not have citizens of the first and second order, we must not stimulate the owners and neglect small producers, because small producers on the property of one, two or three hectares of the country also contribute to the total agricultural production. All in this assembly, regardless of whether we represent a ruling coalition or we are in opposition, we will agree on the fact that agricultural production is a strategic branch of Serbia's overall economic development. I come from the agricultural area, from the Cereal Sword, and I know very well the problems facing agricultural producers in this part of Serbia. I am convinced that the problems facing them in mačvana are exactly the same with the problems facing peasants in Prokuplje, Cačka, Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia. That is why I expect from the Minister of Agriculture, who, in addition, comes from the agricultural area and knows the lives and problems of people in the country, and has a rich experience as a minister of justice, that through the Ministry of Justice, the mechanisms are being launched to ensure in legislation the conditions for our agricultural producers under the same conditions as agricultural production. This means that the Ministry of Agriculture should propose a legislative and other normative regulation that will create normative assumptions that every agricultural producer in Serbia, regardless of its size, is engaged in agricultural production. In other words, credit arrangements for prices and purchase arrangements for surplus agricultural products must be equally available to all agricultural producers in Serbia. In this way, we will eliminate the monopoly on the agricultural products market and provide a motive for a healthy competition, and this with other measures, including the law we are discussing today, will provide conditions to start healthy competition in food production and to put into place all the comparative advantages that our country has in this area. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights is one of the essential laws that contribute to the improvement of the quality and quantity of agricultural production in our country. This law protects not only intellectual property that Serbia should respect international agreements and conventions but improves the system of standards and regulations that the Republic of Serbia opens up prospects for accession and full membership in the international Union for the protection of many plant varieties. At the same time, the adoption of this law will meet another requirement for our country's accession to the WTO. In addition, plant breeders will also be able to access foreign newly created varieties which the processors cannot introduce in production without the possibility of protecting their own processing rights under the law. This law will create assumptions that farmers are allowed access to a large number of protected plant varieties, which will ultimately lead to a significant increase from agricultural production. Changes and additions to this law will contribute to the country's plant breeders' rights to comply with the rights in the international game, a necessary condition for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the WTO and other associations. It should not even be reminded that our country has committed itself to initiate the procedure for the adoption of this law as soon as possible, with the adoption of which it will meet the conditions to become a full member of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties and for the accession of the WTO. Notwithstanding the normative procedure, this law will positively reflect the overall plant production and processing industry in our country, as well as the free exchange of reproductive materials and products resulting from the use of protected varieties between the Republic of Serbia and other countries of the International Convention on the Protection of Plant Varieties. The law will stimulate an increase in market competitiveness, allow more inflows of foreign and domestic varieties on our market, which will ultimately provide our producers with the possibility of raising production plantations, better phytosanitary conditions. At the same time, this law will provide for the affirmation of knowledge that our country has in this area and the protection of that knowledge. The training and training of workers in the field of protection of the rights of processors in all segments from the competent authority to the field of inspection and laboratory will be possible. Conditions will be created to achieve international co-operation and to exchange results in the processing of plant varieties with other organisations and institutions performing this work in the international community. It is particularly important that the adoption of this law creates conditions for our country to become a member of the International Union for the Protection of Plant Varieties and to join the WTO. The SPS-JS parliamentary group in voting day will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62501	Seven minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS MP group thought that since 2009, when you passed this Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights, there will be no conditions by the WTO either by UPOV or by the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, but unfortunately there has been an amendment and addition to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties Law. I can tell you that this is one law or supplement that will one part affect our varieties to show up more in the EU, but I have some anomalies to say. You know, in the great Yugoslavia, we used to be the world power in creating varieties of corn, wheat, sunflowers. I don't know if it's enough just to mention two or three of our top experts, so let's say Professor Skoric, who is known in the world for the creation of a variety of sunflowers, and when he was a Seed Act, he didn't even get up then, even the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, when he showed up on the board, and she left the board. What was I going to say to this? I wanted to say that at least when you were doing these changes and supplementing the UPOV or the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties and the WTO, you should have consulted a large group of experts, which is why we are otherwise known, I repeat, in the world. This is the law we've prescribed from France. I don't want him to appoint a professor, I'm not going to say by his last name who was involved in that law, that translation and somehow brought it into line with our institutions, but I have to say one thing. When amending and supplementing the law, then some basic principles and questions are asked – which problem is being dealt with by law, which objectives are to be achieved by the adoption of the law, whether the options for resolving the problem are considered, why the adoption of the law is the best solution of the given problem, which will also be affected by the solution proposed in the law, which is the cost of applying the law to citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, although there is always no cost of amending and supplementing the law, whether the positive effects of the law justify the costs of its application, whether the law stimulates the emergence of new business entities on the market and competition, whether the interested parties have been able to make their views on the law, whether the interested parties have had the opportunity to make their views on the law. That's where I mentioned our top experts, ministers, who you were supposed to consult after all. I didn't say you didn't consult some, but key people, who create, like Skoric, Dencic, who is the creator of many varieties of wheat. Gentlemen, we are importing French varieties and Canadians which are cattle wheat, and the Novosad Institute, look at which is a small advert, in that little advertising stands, and says – Russia, the name of wheat, winter wheat, bread bread, enhancer. Then NS40S says the enhancer. Why am I saying this? Because because of the imports of this French individual variety that our cattle use for the enhancers, they could then produce flour. I just briefly explained what it was that you needed. Another thing, when one species is created, believe me, it's been many years. Even 10 to 15 varieties pass until she's a sort that will give her some results. We need to take care of something else. They say in our country to date more than 1,800 domestic newly created varieties of agricultural plants in which more than 20 institutes and selection houses with a large number of fertilizers participated, of the total number of domestic varieties with 35 were created only 130 varieties of fruit and vines. There's a problem. That's where you put the emphasis, and that's where the Ministry of Agriculture needs to be helped by the institution that fertilizes and creates varieties of vines and fruit. But there's something else I need to let you know. He says this - in 2008 the total trade between Serbia's agrarians with the world threw out over two billion dollars. The strongest branch of agriculture has produced results. She gave the good part just because we have these institutes, if I were to now list all the institutes here dealing with these scientific research and create these famous varieties of what we are still known about in the world. We need to take care of them for a while. 'Cause here's where it's said, here's what I'm going to say decadently. He says, "Who will and will be affected by the solution proposed by the law?" So he says -- agricultural producers, because our country's membership in UPOV, I'm talking about the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, will allow access to a large number of different varieties that are now inaccessible. Mr. Minister, look how many varieties we have from other countries. I purposely turned around not to advertise them. It's not true they're inaccessible. They're all available to us. But I can't keep my mouth shut, I have to say. Is it a KVS German, is it a LG French, is it a Sidento, is it a pioneer American, does it take so long to represent our market, to try to destroy our own? Take care when you adopt this law. It is true that then we will be able to go out more in the EU, because you want to go there and you want to do it quickly, you wait for that December 9th, but we don't want it the way they want it. We can't get in without KIM, we can't get in because we're aware that people need to be given varieties there, selling varieties that are specially created in the country whose kiM is an integral part of the state. It's the state of Serbia. And that's where you have to take care. So, mountain-mounted, so we have a flat-rate section, all of these varieties carry their own traits. But, Mr. Minister, there is something that the citizens of Serbia would know and, let's say Serbia's paraors, they know. You see this one interesting, at the very beginning of the law of your reasoning or of your assistants, it is said - Article 1 provides that the definition of reproductive material in Article 2(2) of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, in the text below, of the law, is deleted, and based on the comment of the Council of UPOV. We're just going back a little bit again. It's one of the ultimatums again, so we can slowly go astray. It is my opinion and opinion of the SRS parliamentary group and the good part of how it was done in time, registered agricultural holdings. But we're worried about something else, Mr. Minister. Personally, I am concerned that by entering, because we are not members, nor members of UPOV and WTO, the full name – the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties and the World Trade Organisation, give one new condition. Today you saw at 9.30 p.m. handing over 35,000 signatures to possibly read the future law on GMOs. It is true that we brought the ban here in 2009 and then the Minister of Agriculture suffered a good criticism, as the US Embassy sent the US Embassy from Belgrade to Washington on July 6th 2009, and this angered the new GMO law, which adopted the Serbian Parliament on 29 May 2009. For the first time in Serbia, this law prohibits the cultivation of genetically modified food and trade in products containing genetically modified food in Serbia. I'm afraid that when this law is passed, there will be no new law, where we will allow genetically modified organisms to enter Serbia. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that even Wikilix announced that the WTO, or the United States, is asking Serbia to allow genetically modified organisms to enter. You all know exactly who the bearer is in the world. It's Monsanto. Monsanto's in charge. He knocked on the door there and there he is, already with us. Don't let it happen, Minister, because if a Bulgarian member of the EU has passed a law that can't genetically modified organisms enter Bulgaria, why shouldn't Serbia who is not yet a member of the EU do so? Do you know what GMOs mean? The first to do so as a minister was Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Then for the first time, it allowed the import of 200,000 tons of genetically modified soybeans. It's public knowledge, Argentina, one of the largest producers of genetically modified soybeans, 100%, we're still importing, we may not have imported soybean, but we're importing soybeans. Then there's America, then Brazil. In some of the reports that I own here, I can only go back again and just let you know the opinion of this amendment and the addition of the law. It goes on – I think many formulations are very vague and inaccurate, often and inappropriate. I'll give you only three examples, and there are countless. In the beginning, Articles 7, 8 and 9, I quote - the sort of article of Article 1 of this article is considered new although the availability of this variety by the processors is the result of the presentation of this variety in exhibitions officially recognised in the sense of the Convention on International Exhibitions, concluded as early as 22 November 1928 in Paris. Comment – what does this mean? This is completely unclear. I quote another example - the variety is considered uniform if it is sufficiently uniform in expressing the characteristics involved in the trial of diversity, given the deviations that can be expected due to the personality of its multiplication. Then comment – the variety does not express qualities, it owns them. If you've consulted inseminators, people in the profession, they need to know. Not all of them were, but half of them, to say so, ordered, and so she said you had to make. Then, the third example, I quote – the variety is considered stable, pay attention if its characteristics which have been subject to the trial of differences remain unchanged after the modified multiplication or in the case of an individual multiplication cycle after each such cycle. The comment – first, in order for something to be recognised as a variety, it must have stable properties. Am I right? I did. Is there an unstable variety? I don't know. So it doesn't have to be defined when the variety is considered stable, it's too unnecessary. Everything else is the result of the mistake. For example, in some NN variety of wheat, mustache classes appear, if she's a tickle and some callers say she's not stabilized, I shouldn't explain what a mustache is, what a tickles. I think you understand that. Gentlemen, such a variety couldn't even be recognized if it was unstable. So, a mistake was made in the examination of the state recognition commission which was not rejected. That sort should never have been admitted. There's a lot of examples like this in the text of the law, there are examples like that, you have to admit. Because of this, many members of the law are vague and inaccurate, and many formulations, as I have already said, are unnecessary. I repeat, I think you had to give more time or the EU to you i.e. UPOV I WTO, the World Trade Organisation, gives more time when you have implemented the amendment and addition of the Law on the processing of plant varieties. They had to give you more time, and you had to allow our top experts, not to repeat again, for the wheat - Dencic, Jockovic for corn and all that, this isn't anyone's commercial, but I have to say we have top experts. I mentioned the snooze on the sunflower. I purposely made one graduation, but again I ask you – gentlemen, how at least our varieties to arrive at KIM if we do not have access, it is part of the state of Serbia, how to help them there, if our varieties are not able to arrive? That's your policy that you have to solve, that will touch you, Mr. Minister. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. That's where people deal in agriculture and mostly from that agriculture and live. All they need to do is send them our kind and allow our varieties to do what their ancestors have done for centuries, which is agriculture. Since I've almost used my time, I'd leave about three more minutes to pick up after my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62503	It was used 17 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups reporting for a word, using their right to a word in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, had been submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given by MPs, and according to the order of the Members of the People and according to the application for a word in the principle of a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties. The first to be reported is MP Vitomir Plužarevic. After him, the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties was passed on July 10th 2009, and after two years we are doing repairs, that is, amending and supplementing the law. The first thing we did in the country of Serbia is that we destroyed everything that had value, and it's about this area. My colleague, Christin, has, in principle, given certain guidelines and related to the destruction of all the values that you have destroyed. You destroyed the institutes that were in Serbia's space. That destruction lasts today. Serbia was still engaged in the processing of species and varieties during Michael Pupin. In his works, he has told all generations, including today, that our geographical climate gives the highest quality varieties of fruit. He was a world traveler, and he could compare it, and related to all varieties and colors, the sweetness and taste produced in Serbia. Remember the Kalemar of Velika Drenova, remind us of the Institute of Zemun Polje "Romani Barčevi", remind us of the Institute of Fruiting in Čačka, "Fruškogorski Kalemar" from Petrovadine, Sremski Karlovac, Iriga, there is nothing more. When an ordinary citizen today wants to secure a mold or a variety, we no longer have them, we import everything, and that lobby has fulfilled its goal. You have an obligation only to import, by the name of the quote, our varieties, because your varieties have gone into oblivion. That's what those who do business think, let me say, this lobby, are about destroying everything that is valuable and quality in the Republic of Serbia. This law on the protection of processors was adopted in 2009, which means he has not found his way, and is already under discussion today about amendments and additions to the same law. The reasons are well-known. Prof. Prosecution and Science Ševarovic has collected 35,000 signatures, which wants to distract the public, professions, sciences and authorities that this law, i.e. amendments and additions, is not adequate with our scientific views, which are recognised in the world. We accept everything by the ad hoc system only if it's from the EU. Today, apparently the world's public, is falling apart. What are we doing? Where are we going? Should we destroy everything to enter the ruins of the EU? Hold on a second, turn around and look the people in the eye, and he will tell you everything. He wants the profession and the teaching to be respected, not to be used with the world's bad guys, who, on a daily basis, you accept and have dealings with them, which you receive and respect as if we owe more than what they seek. How long are you going to kneel and beg that white-world hoax to do whatever he wants in Serbia? Agriculture is mostly in praise, according to your reports. You're raising the media, and that's what the prime minister has been commenting on these days, as agriculture growth is, I don't know how many percent. You know, it's just for TV. The real state of agriculture is below all criteria, and everything is related to this law. Today you put this law on the agenda. In KIM the situation is such that this topic has an advantage over this law. The SRS has suggested that the Assembly put that question on the agenda, but you are dealing with this law. The most tragic thing is that on Monday, when you put the impelation of Minister Sretkovic on the agenda and he was surprised by this proposal. The situation on KIM is difficult and these people who live there deserve the attention of this parliament. This law solves a special form of intellectual property. You drove all the quality personnel into the white world because they have nothing to do in Serbia anymore. That's what you, Mr. Minister, know well, because you're visiting Serbia, you know what kind of personnel we have, what kind of personnel they are, where they're deployed and what you need to do with them. What illogical things happened, that you must pass this law? We're looking for an answer to that question. At the beginning of my comment, I told you that you have destroyed everything and that today we need to coordinate with international conventions and enter the system of the international union, which monitors and genetically modified species. We need to stop here a little bit. These international conventions require Serbia to accept genetically modified plant and animal species. One of the MPs of the ruling coalition said – we passed the Law on the prohibition of modified plant and animal species. It's just a farce. These days, in Vojvodina, specifically in Srem, during the harvest, not these days, but last year, the ministry has been working on a strain that has been genetically modified. What were you doing? How could you import that seed? Who could have gotten past the state and past those controllers you're running and the people are sowing? What does that hillbilly over there with the Frusches up or out of the woods know, he goes out and buys it. That declaration doesn't say it's a genetically modified plant. Then you show up. You know how you showed up, Mr. Minister? A police helicopter is hitting that tractor of yours that pulls the plates and that mechanization and the people, and that's the peasants who have two or three in the morning, not even a hectare, such soy, and then you destroy it to him, he's poor enough to put some effort into it, etc. A peasant knows that, to say in some postscription, it's forbidden, but he doesn't know how he can understand that kind of business that you're doing. We stop these international conventions, Serbia has to accept genetically modified plant and animal species, and that, I say, experiment they perform with our country, with our people, and we still pay them who knows how much. This experiment they're conducting in Serbia is a very good experiment for them and they're going to profit there. Who are they? Well, they and you, because you keep your mouths shut over all the problems that concern you, and those related to this law. What are you pretending to know about these genetically modified organisms? So you have to take the right steps to keep this process from spreading to Serbia. We know these European benefites. You said, like, there'd be these European benefits, etc., they're so familiar to us. Remember only those billions when you came to power, remember when you said -- we come to power, there will be benefits, waiting for us there in Segedin, we arrive in trucks, airplanes, etc. It was a colorful lie. The Benefits have led us to a great world debt, and this debt is now ranging from 27 billion to 30 billion. Your friends bombed us, benefitted us with 200 billion euros. You're no law, I know that you're not related to agriculture, you're more in this legal sector, you had to, as an excellent lawyer, as a lawyer, that one at least a small law of three members tie up and put on a pedestal for future generations, that 200 billion are constantly growing at that rate, that these future generations can sometimes be called. You won't be invited, neither will I, but those future generations can call and say, "They bombed us, that's so much damage and so much damage." In these days, you also debated the return of the bags to the Germans who left the Duke. What bag? Well, on a bike. They delivered, you know, when Angela Merkel was here with you, she provided you with a list of all the tasks you need to do and do everything you need to do. You say, access to genetic material. The professor told you 35,000 signatures, he warns you. You're saying we can trade. With what? We're importing all the varieties you run from Italy. Come to Frusch Mountain, I invite you there to show you the varieties, to show you the complete infrastructure there. It's all import. There's not a single apple called a plater, our old varieties or petraceous, etc. Come to luck and see it. Those for the fruit material dictate to you which species, which the country, which technology, which coolers, who will dig wells, whose network is anti-urban, and we give labor, the one around there, at the price of one euro an hour. This is the store. Do you know where you export apples? Do not export to the EU. You're exporting to Russia. They gave you a price of 60 euro cents again, so they figured out how much it is per hectare, so when you sit at a round table and explain it, that's a fortune over wealth. Do you know whose money it's being built with? A peasant's torment. It's all our farmer's money and our people who've been farming. You've increased your deadlines from 30 to 60 days. That's what's important and it's not. It's just to make changes. You give the licenses if you have party favorites, as you are now doing with agronomies that are on agricultural stations today, education of peasants, living truth, education of choice – how much, what, where – and that none of these agronoms should speak against the authorities. It wasn't the cross of the world, but it's what you do. I've got a lot more of that, but I'll be done. Minister, you're not the Minister of Agriculture for agriculture. You have been appointed as a lawyer to nix you, that is to say, some of your masterful legal engravings of that agriculture which at some point in time has become the toast and as a finished product you hand over to that European ruins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62505	Fourteen minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has a word, and after him is the Messenger of Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, of the government's reconstruction for the first time you are in a position to, in a way, respond to the MPs of the SRS when it comes to our agrarian and the Ministry of Agriculture. We expected these changes and the merger of the ministries, especially as the Minister of Agriculture has been replaced, including the Minister of Trade, where the two ministries are directly connected and are related to our agrarian, that there will be any significant change and progress in our agriculture. But reality is completely different. Nor do you appear here in the National Assembly, we expected you to appear on the last Thursday of the month when we were able to ask a question, you didn't come here. There are so many problems in agriculture, there's probably a lot of obligations, but there's something I don't see in the field. What I've had a chance to see, is that you've been with the president of the state twice with our individual farmers, that you've taken pictures with them, even pet animals. We had ministers here in our time who didn't know a cow from a bull. Many MPs here in the National Assembly are called on to be experts in the field of livestock, and I am convinced that they don't even know how to distinguish goats from goats. It's one big problem, one irresponsible to our agrarian. You said that this law came into force in 2009 and that we would have the opportunity to adopt these amendments and supplement laws that are more technical, to obtain conditions and to attend the International Organisation for the Protection of Plant Varieties. Our institutes have been recognizable throughout the world for many years, I can even say freely that they were Serbia's brand, in a way, that our seeds are very quality, that they can be placed far more than they are now placed. But unfortunately, when it was looked at that in continuity since 2000, as our economy collapsed, our entire agricultural system and our agrarian collapsed. First of all, I also think of modern centers that are very important for the development of seed production. The malls were destroyed by bad privatisations. Because they haven't seen their interest in it, they're only interested in profit and profit. We all know what's been done with our agricultural combinations. I hope that we will have the opportunity to have another law and that you will be able to go more adequately into the debate and be concrete, not only towards the MPs of the SRS, but towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our farmers. I hope you'll openly say that for many things we were right here. Since calling this government, everything the SRS said when it comes to our agrarian, we were absolutely right. That's what happened in the last three-and-a-half years that you've been in power. The agricultural budget, Mr. Minister, must not be below 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm sure you're aware of that, too. To fulfill all the promises you made to our agricultural producers, and at the end of the legal provision when the subsidies are in the case of these 2.6% or 2.8%, if I'm not mistaken, it's absolutely impossible. Since you've taken major commitments from the previous period, and you haven't even managed to pay it all off, you've resorted to one manipulation to reduce subsidies per hectare to 30%. However, when our farmers began to strike, then you found some compromise solution and they are not aware that you rule the regulation and that it will be absolutely nothing. Empty promises are still on the scene. We live in a country where agriculture must be a momentum for the development of the Republic of Serbia, an economic branch in which we will reach a billion and 300 million surpluses this year. I think the data is correct. But I also think it can be twice as much, just a little bit more understanding. Your predecessor probably didn't have the strength to deal with the other ministries' excessive ambitions to make the agriculture budget bigger. We were surprised when you were proposed for the Minister of Agriculture and Trade, given your profession, but, frankly, I don't think that's a condition. It's enough for someone to be a good manager and to know they're in charge. Given what's known about you, I think in that part, in the private sector, you did it. But obviously you didn't make it in the Department of Agriculture. For example, you are referring to our environment, standards in the EU, and you have not said at any time how many subsidies are in the EU and in our environment. Do you know that the subsidy per hectare of farmland for wheat is at least 300 euros and for tail 500 euros? And we have 14,000 dinars. Monopolies are present, you're absolutely aware of that. But what's worrying is that the other day at one of the conferences, I think it was in Novi Sad, or here in Belgrade, said that the Ministry of Agriculture and State would strongly support the development of three large companies here in Serbia. You see, Mr. Minister, these three big companies have been created since 2000. They practically hold a monopoly in Serbia. So, in primary agricultural production, it all starts and ends literally with Victoria Group, from bargaining to buying out the finished product. In the previous period, the ministry also subsidised the acquisition of artificial fertilizer and 55m euros received only one firm, which is the "PDP" from Backa Palanka. When they got that subsidy, only a week after that, an artificial fertilizer of three sixteens appeared on our market that was more expensive than ours. That you invested that money in individual agricultural holdings, and what's very difficult is that you set up an agrarian paying agency against which we were unequivocally and which is based in Capco. I think you've got better control now, since I count on you to stay at the Paws a lot. I would call it, Mr. Minister – Agency for Disabling and Preventing the Progress of Our Agricultural Producer. Literally. (President: National MP, please speak within the Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to speak on the agenda and to connect artificial fertilisers and agrarian payment agencies with the protection of plant varieties. So, our institutes, they were supposed to be brand. But what's worrying is that in 2010, under the seed crops, it was sown 2/3 less, 20,000 acres, primarily due to processing capacity, due to final processing. There are institutes that want to invest, because they see first of all their objective in exports, and that is what the SRS stands for – co-operation with the Russian Federation. The Novi Sad Institute is most exporting to Ukraine, I think about 15m euros in profits with them last year. But we think we can do it far more. I have the freedom to say that our institutes are more esteemed abroad and have more attention than they do here in Serbia. First of all, because foreign and large companies are allowed to enter our market and in some way in this unfair competition, our institutes have been unable to help the state stay at some level that would, above all, be in the interest of both the Republic of Serbia and the interests of the ministry. You said in one statement that you would help, that it was one of three priorities that our institutes are developing in the future. The Novo Sad Institute is working specifically to expand its capacities. I think you're aware of that, but you certainly need support. There's nothing to stop the Zemun-Polish Institute. But what you said today in the opening statement is that one of the goals of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, including the Ministry of Agriculture, is to enter the World Trade Organisation, only there is one danger, which we have warned about in continuity for three years. If we do not enter the World Trade Organisation, regardless of what we think we should not join the EU and we will never enter the EU, if we do not enter the World Trade Organisation, we have no chance of entering the EU. That's what your great friend, Joseph Biden, told you unequivocally when he came to Serbia for a visit. The World Trade Organisation's main goal is to expand this market with as many genetically modified organisms as possible. I'd like to ask you if you've met what's going on in our southern province and what the U.S. administration has done with the so-called leadership. Kosovo countries? There are laboratories and warehouses in our southern province with genetically modified organisms. The US "GEEN cartel" opened several years ago in the area of the southern Serbian province of KIM, which exclusively deals with the study, storage and production of genetically modified food, seeds and various infected substances. This is just amazing, but isn't it enough for them, Mr. Petrovic, that in 1999 they bombed our southern province with poor uranium? In this way, they want Serbia and above all our southern provinces to be totally destroyed. What is certainly problematic, is that our government has allowed the German company Monsato to take a look at the Novo Sad Institute and at the Zemun-Polish Institute. Now I ask you, is it true that this co-operation has been interrupted? I think you should also know that it's vital to say that we're certainly not going to give in to the pressures, because there's been a lot of talk about it, and I talked about it three years ago, what's coming to us. Normally, I didn't come across an understanding with the previous minister. He was defending himself that he even taught at college. Of course, one special attention should be paid to this and that you must not allow such a thing. What is very dangerous is that if you allow genetically modified food to enter Serbia in this way, there will be destruction of both Serbia and our citizens. I think you should be more serious about all this and, after all, start working in the interest of our farmer and our agrarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62507	It was used 13 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, as we can see, is again conditioned to some imaginary goal, this time it's the WTO. What is being prepared under the grains by our agriculture, our population and our country is the introduction to the small door of GMOs, in the form of unrealized foreign plant varieties to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62509	People's messenger, please, I patiently listen to all the people's messengers, but the sentence you have spoken is public deception and pure falsehood. Please be very careful, given that together we have an obligation to know what is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, you are talking about genetically modified food, a ban that is in force and a difference in the protection of the rights of plant breeders. So for both you and your colleagues who will speak after you, that kind of deception is not allowed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62510	It is a ban on power, but we're afraid there will be no law tomorrow that will allow the use of GMOs. We support what currently applies in Serbia as a ban on GMOs. In an explanation for the adoption of the law, the Government states in almost every position the same – conditions for WTO accession, conditions for full membership among countries that support the International Convention on the Protection of Plant Varieties, the conditions for joining the EU, etc. Simply put, Serbia has become the country with the highest condition per capita. Even on one of these laws, I'd say the globalist elite is showing us how this area is going to work for agricultural production. As far as plant breeders are concerned, we see in the explanation that the WTO (read: America) and signatories of the convention (read: America) were the most disturbed by the lack of protection of intellectual property rights for plant varieties that they could uninterruptedly place on our market. Of course, no one has anything against foreign varieties of herbs. Also, it's time for the inseminators to protect their rights, given that they've invested a lot of time, effort, knowledge and money. Thus, the Serbs have well-trapped some of the species of plants that are grown on large agricultural surfaces. However, this sudden pressure of the world, I would say more aggressive to Serbia, is beginning to cause certain doubts with me. One logical question arises – is this law a small open door for the entry of plant varieties that can harm our agricultural production, because of US promises and because of these conditions for joining the WTO? Since a large justified campaign against laws is being conducted in the public, which will allow the use of GMOs in Serbia and which has more and more supporters, you have now found some Solomonian solution to satisfy both the US and the public in Serbia, to cloud your eyes, so you have proposed these amendments and the additions of the law. Also, you want our institutes and scientists working successfully with this kind of work, I would say that you translate thirsty across the water, because you promise them a world market exit, where the rules of the notorious alimonyus code are largely ruled out, and for the citizens who listen to this, the alimonyus code is a set of rules for the complete production of food, from seeds to the final food product, with all that power being concentrated on a group of several monopolists under the auspices of the United States. Today there is no room for our new species, nor for our processors, nor for anyone else, unless they play by the rules of the Alimentarius Code and the Monsato Company, a company that changes the essence of nature by its bioengineering and disrupts the course of life cycles on planet Earth...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62511	People's MP, I asked you, the subject of the agenda is the bill on the protection of the rights of plant breeders. all members of that law concern the protection of the rights of plant varieties of domestic producers. Please do not deceive the public and try to declare GMO production on the agenda theme. This is the last warning of criminal acts, because such a kind of public deception, false alarming, telling the truth is not allowed in the framework of the Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda. The law is ahead of us to protect the rights of domestic producers, those involved in the processing of plant varieties in Serbia. We're protecting them. That's the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62512	Madam Chairman, the subject is very serious. We're merely suggesting that there's a possibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62513	People's messenger, don't flaunt with me, to remind you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62514	You're interrupting my exposure. I need to explain what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62515	The second warning, after that comes the first statement, then the second warning. I interrupt the presentation of the MP of the moment when the violation of the provisions takes place to such an extent that it is inevitable that I, as the chairman, warn. So, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62516	What the promoter says in his explanation, I will quote what the Government wrote: "This enables Serbia to access the sides of newly created varieties, which the processors do not want to introduce into Serbia without the possibility of protecting their law-based processing rights", can in translation mean only one thing – do not touch us, regardless of the origin of our seed material of certain plant breeders. I think there's a central point to this bill. You're fulfilling what the United States is secretly seeking, and we know from experience that everything that's potential for America can't be good for us. There's no deal, no deal, no convention they didn't break or play. Not to talk about Kim and what's going on out there right now. Speaking of WTO membership, who, Mr. Minister, guarantees that Serbia will officially become a member of this organisation after the adoption of this law, which you say is very important for our WTO membership? I suppose you can see for yourself how both the EU and the United States that you are flocking to for reasons that are not understandable to us just extend the list of demands, and you are obediently fulfilling, of course by destroying the integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. I have great reason to doubt the intentions of what is behind this law, I have two examples, I will list them here. First case Joseph Biden, U.S. Vice President. (President: National MP, or immediately bring Joseph Biden into contact with any member of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varietyors, or we understand that you want the debate on the bill to be concluded so that I must, with the most unpopular measures, take care of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly's order at the session. ) At the time of his visit to Serbia in 2009, Joseph Biden expressed his great dissatisfaction with the adoption of certain laws in the Serbian Parliament, among which one... (Chairman: National MP, agenda, please. A member of the Rules of Procedure cannot be more clear – the MP is obliged, obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda, chairing on the basis of a member to remind the MP that he is obliged to speak on the agenda. If the MP insists on violating the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman is obliged to give the warning measure. Continue on the agenda. Let's let Joseph Beyden go now. (President: I give you the first warning. ) In an analysis of the effects of the law in the last position, you say, I quote: "The result of this is that agricultural producers are given access to a large number of new protected plant varieties, leading to an increase in income from agricultural production. "We agree with that, it is nice that you care for our agricultural producers to achieve as much as possible by choosing good varieties as possible, thus making more money, but it is not a good thing that you do not tell them the whole truth about the fate of agricultural production and farmers in Serbia after Serbia's eventual entry into the EU, which we believe will not happen, since the EU has begun to fall apart. Today, a huge number of agricultural producers in Serbia, especially fruits and vegetables, sell their products at a good price to customers from Russia. Even the Russians start paying the peasants in advance to take their products next year. We all know that this is based on a trade agreement with Russia that allowed free trade without tax restrictions. You now need to tell those agricultural producers, and I ask them to listen to this well and pay attention, that Serbia's entry into the EU will also mean the end of successful trade with the Russians. That was explained by Vensan Deger at the Assembly Committee on European Integration two weeks ago. As Mr Dezer says the EU knows that Serbia has great benefits because of this trade agreement with Russia, to make revenues, but the moment EU legislation comes into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62517	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your job, Mrs. Comic, is not to insult the MPs and tell them that they deceive the public, lie, tell lies or anything else. (President: Please do not deceive the public in reasoning now, because I have never said what you quote as my words, so please be careful in treating other participants in the session. ) There was a Mr. Minister present, he heard you tell Mr. Radisa Ilic that he was cheating on the public because he was talking about the agenda point. The MP is free to express his opinion. Whether that opinion is true or not, don't judge it as chairman, and let the citizens who are following this session judge it. I already suggested once, give you before the beginning of every session, highlight the list of forbidden words at the entrance to the hall. One day we must not mention Vuk Draskovic, the second day Boris Tadic, the third day of Joseph Biden, the fifth day of the EU, the sixth day of the NATO Pact. Tell us, as the Catholic Church published a list of banned books, give us a list of banned terms, names, states, that we know which words we can use and which ones we can't. I don't know if there's a parliament somewhere in a world where there's more of freedom of expression than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the MP calling, the microphone's shutting down. This isn't going anywhere. In which EU country does the MP not have the right to express his opinion? Let's make it the worst possible, let's absolutely not, but let the man say it. The man's talking about the fact that America is putting pressure on Serbia to choke domestic agriculture so foreign companies can completely master our market, and you say it has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62519	Two minutes. Thank you. There are rules in every parliament in the world that everyone is obliged to comply with and in every parliament in the world to look after the work of chairing the implementation of these rules. National MP Radisa Ilic deceives the public, deceived during the presentation, and I acted in accordance with a member who binds me and the audio curtain is clear that I have the support of the parliamentary group for it. I thank you for your applause for taking care of the order. I interrupted you for, quote, saying that, quote, I said someone was lying. Since that is not said, I am obliged to remind you that there is no need to deceive the public or in an explanation and of course there has been no harm to Article 27, because I am taking care of order and there is no interpretation in the sentence that reads, I quote: "The emissary is obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda". If you gain insight into the National Assembly’s stenogram, you will see that I am at least three times without warning, then twice with a warning I have asked the MP to return to the agenda theme and not abuse the right to the word he received on the basis of the application and in the order of the MPs to speak on the subject of the agenda. Do you want the Assembly to plead in the day of voting on your injury? Yeah. The assembly will plead. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62520	Thank you very much. Several times today's topic is about genetically modified food and products, the material is fruity, I just want to, first of all, because of the MPs and the public, to make it clear that these two things have nothing to do with each other. We passed this law two years ago and it went into effect. Today we are dealing with essentially technical issues that should change some definitions in the procedure. This law will essentially be the same as it was two years ago. I think we're going to bring things that explain some vague terms and some vague provisions, remove contradictions. It's all debated internationally with the International Association, but neither did anyone pressure us to do it nor did anyone make a request to us. This is my opinion, in the best interest of farmers in Serbia, in the best interests of the institutes and other companies involved in this area. We enter when this law, if we pass it, when this Convention is ratified, when we enter full membership, into a completely different position that we can achieve every protection and every benefit that comes from this. What is not allowed in this country today will not be allowed even when these changes and additions take effect. It doesn't matter, it's not a big door or a small door for genetically modified things. This is being debated, a large number of experts, citizens, farmers are taking part. There are different views, different opinions. We have one state of affairs that has been established by law and this topic today has no connection. I wouldn't be spreading around some commercial stuff around here. What I'm saying in principle. The great fear that arises when we enter the process of reducing external trade protection for the various branches of our economy, and this is about agriculture and the food industry has proved completely unfounded. From the moment the Stabilisation and Association Agreement began to be applied, which from year to year leads to a reduction in customs protection, we are recording the growth of exports and the growth of surpluses in external trade. We're recording a larger surplus year after year. So this year we will have more exports and more surpluses than in 2010. I mean, and the structure of that export changes, too. We export from year to year more industrial processing, oil, sugar. We're making good moves. It is not the time and I will not talk about it now, but in principle there is no investment and investment in increasing efficiency which is the only time that we turn our huge potential in agricultural production into an increase in industrial production, i.e. an increase in the production of the food industry in order to raise the country's capacity. We have a clear plan for this, and I believe that we will increase exports to both Russia and the EU and other countries. That we're going to increase exports to countries in the environment and that's the only way in my court and way that we're going to allow people who are engaged in agriculture to make more money than they're making right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62521	MP Dobrislav Prelic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62522	On the basis of Article 107. Mrs. Komic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. When you said there was nothing to do with plant breeders having nothing to do with genetically modified mechanisms. Now I'm going to try to convince you that they have both the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62523	People's MPs, you can make a breach of the Rules of Procedure to my actions, which cannot be brought into contact with the application of the Rules of Procedure because I am obliged to remind the Members of Parliament to speak of the agenda. I do, so I know what the bill says, which is currently under review, as I listen carefully to what every MP says. So I'm asking you on the grounds that you're not misusing the provision by which you get the right to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to speak again beyond the subject of the agenda, what you think you want to say. It binds me to the same member that you received your word, to give you a fifth-rate warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62524	Our institutes and our country have, in time, faced a great erosion of genetic material.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62525	I give you a warning. The People's Messenger received your first warning. If you want to continue to speak through the abuse of a member who gives you the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am forced to give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62526	I mean, you're a farming expert now, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62527	Not the People's Messenger, I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I give you a second warning. I ask MP Aleksandr Martinovic not to throw away and follow closely the debate in the hall, as if in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly he finds a member who gives the right to the MP to receive his word. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. After that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62528	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a very important law where I hope around the MPs of the SRS will be able to analyse this law and in some way make a big conclusion that will ultimately contribute to some improvement in the work of farmers, farmers. It is known that the variety in plant production, therefore also in fruit production, is the basis for profitable production, if the variety is weak, born or has no suitable fruit quality, or if it is sensitive to biological and adbetic factors and does not have a suitable time to sow according to the locality on which it is grown, then even the best use of agro-measures will not affect the profitability of its cultivation. Therefore, the work on selection and processing has been present for a long time, and I say this for a reason that no plant, nor fruit, is without defects, and therefore, they try to create varieties with minor defects. Modern selection faces numerous problems in creating new varieties and plant varieties, i.e. new varieties of fruit trees. What exactly is one big goal of this fertilization? Well, it is, so, like I said at the beginning of my discussion, that there is a greater rentability for those who do production. There are three factors here, and that is the producer, state and user. We know who the manufacturer is, the manufacturer is a peasant, the state today she's not in this business, unfortunately, she's in business with a business lobby and what's ultimately, is the ultimate distance, is a user. When we say user, it is necessary to produce as much as possible and that in the end the one who uses this product is to use it both more actively and to make its quality as possible. Unfortunately, it didn't happen in this country today, it can't happen, because you know well after the October 5th Revolution, you had one main fossil at the time, we win you. But I'm thinking, who's in this chain now, these three chains, who's actually got it now. Although we look at the chain that deals with this, to call it that, means, by producing, or processing, you're laughing, because you're probably allowed to laugh at everything, but if you look at those institutes that have dealt with this task, today these institutes, as they said in their discussion of my colleagues, they don't exist more rarely or are on the verge of their collapse. Mr. Minister, today, you have to believe me, that that's what I say every night, so on tractors together with peasants preparing a reduced field for sowing, where peasants instead of using processed wheat, high-born, they use their barns. What are they using her for? Well, they use it because they can't pay it three times as much as the one you're buying from the peasants today. So, he's forced to sow that wheat, and how did you help a farmer with that processed wheat, he can get a higher yield, or that he has more rentability, or that the end-user, is peasants, pensioners, workers and these poor people who are close to the mill, that he can use that cheap food. Because there must be no hunger in Serbia today. Today, Serbia must, must ensure that every citizen has a decent meal but you have not already done so well remember when you were on Free Europe saying how many folk cuisines were in Serbia in 2000. But I'm asking you how many people's cuisine users are today in Serbia. It's a 10-year-old government of yours that says you've destroyed, how you've ruined the system of fertilization of plant varieties and fruit trees, how you've ruined what we had until 2000. This is your criminalized privatisation, is it today, see how the tycoons bought half of Vojvodina, meaning how they got to this quality duchy country that was once predicted to be able to feed more than half of Europe, and today we can't just feed our population in Serbia. It's that fossil you fought for in 2000, but in the end, you haven't shown and proved in Serbia in these ten, eleven years. What I must also point out, which is how and in what way is available, if these days thousands of first Serbs were killed in Kosovo and Metohija because he came to visit his property, to see how he would sow with these fertilized plants, how he would survive. When international forces arrived at KIM 1001 Serbs were killed and no process was processed. You know, in 1999, there were 14 harvesters killed who harvested wheat on their property. They've been killed and not proven and shown to date, it's not processable who did this crime, or those international forces, or their institutions don't want to show it today in Serbia. That's the problem, Mr. Minister, you came at a very awkward moment. I'm not going to say what my colleagues said, because this processing is well imagined, but how is it imagined? It's imagined that way, Mr. Krstin explained it well, you saw, you may not have had time, in a spring sowing of how many commercials were foreign institutes, foreign seeds bound to come to our market. You must know that those varieties of corn and wheat produced in our institutes are related to climates, related to climates in a limited system of rainfall and temperature. They are as measurable as they can give quality in offerings and in quality as well. This is the problem that is very present, which is why you opened the market, that is to say that foreign seeds can come to our climate, but you haven't done so much that our seeds are on their market, because you know very well how much in Eastern Europe, how much these institutes have been doing financially, have succeeded in exporting our seed goods. What are we talking about today? Today we actually import or manufacture, not these incriminating means plants, i.e. the varieties that we need to sow, in our areas, we are already producing and so much so that we are not curent on the market again with the production of other countries. I must honestly tell you when I was in London three years ago, so I saw in their stores only imported goods from Argentina, Brazil, but there is no imported goods from Serbia. That's the problem and what we're discussing and what this law is about today. I'd like this law to come to life, but how can he come to life? How to get to one use that is satisfactory for us, but not to satisfy others, that's the problem. So you have to turn to the people you say today, or 550 acres of land under the wheat, how to sow it? Well, reduced. They can't be modeled. It wasn't raining. It's not a drought. How and in what way will a farmer who today has to invest 550 euros to sow wheat, and how much later will he get out of it at the end when he gets it all together? You once said, well, 30 dinars per kilogram the price of wheat fits, and there the peasant can live well. That's nice to think about, but I'm asking you, where's 30 dinars per kilogram of wheat today? She's nowhere to be found. It's 17 today, 18, 19 dinars on the stock market, corn, too. So, and if he had a bad birth, you know she failed production, but where are we today on the market, who's buying today? You are today trying to make with this production, that is, with this production that we want to produce in our fields, whether a farmer can follow certain agroimputs that are needed when investing in that production, so he can't. How now, imagine, what is the price of a ton of food or MPK fertilizer, and how much is the price of seed wheat, when you put it all on paper, you'll see that the farmer is in a minus and you've brought it to ruin the edge. You say and I agree with you that there must be a chain of production. I guess it's better to sell the final product than the raw materials. I'm asking you, where are we going to rework today? You know, we're both from Capca, where there's a Chapchan who's been processing fruits and vegetables and where it is today and what's being produced in it today. There's no "A" or "S" in it that products of fruit or vegetables are in it. Not to say anything else. That's actually the point today, that everything that could have been finalized has been destroyed. Now we want to build factories overnight and take them out. Well, a crazy man might assume that it's better to sell the final product than the raw materials, but we're not able to because we destroyed everything by criminal privatisation. I don't need to list you. Here, I can only tell you how much has been destroyed in recent years. Eighty thousand companies are in different forms of blockade, 66 accounts for being in a blockade, and 22 thousand companies are already ready to block and liquidate. There are also agricultural cooperatives. You are now trying to get close to some new methods with that law, so that you can get close to the agricultural producer, the peasant, because you know well that today's owners in Serbia and what these people are producing today cannot satisfy as much as it takes to satisfy production in terms of production, as you have pointed out that it is necessary to do and make a surplus in the export of agricultural products. Therefore, the entire agricultural mechanism, you have to trust me because I'm on it day and night, because I'm on it, it's broken down, and you've brought it down to one collapse, but it's a matter that doesn't regenerate very quickly, it has to go through a period in order for you to re-establish that chain of production from the field to the table and make it cheap, that is, to make it affordable, or that it can't happen during a pre-election campaign of a particular product or a certain event, a price drop, and when all this goes on later, you know very well how you can raise the price or the ultimate buyer of suffering and these are our citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62529	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last registered speaker. Time is available for 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62530	Let's just get this straight. Usually when it says we're moving in a row, I guess it's moving from the front. Let us not forget, there is a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly on 25 July 2011. What's changing? An appropriate number of provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties Act, which was adopted in 2009. When the law was passed, some reasons were given. Let me remind you, one of these reasons was we have to bring this for the EU, because of the international Union for the protection of new plant varieties. The same is now repeated when the proposal for this law on amendments and additions is written. What's the next interesting thing? It's also an interesting explanation. I'm sticking to the agenda. So, the Roman five in an explanation – an analysis of the effects, and under Arabic nine, did the interested parties have the opportunity to make their views about the bill. What did the government write? A public debate took place in the Chamber of Commerce on 7 April 2008. Please, how is it possible for a public debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to be carried out before the law is passed? So, that vote from Bodrum, what the calendar doesn't know from last week, we see it's all mixed up. I would say that this is what Gašo Knezevic wrote, because he was applying a bill that was not even in the government yet, so he says, according to the draft law and he is seducing order around the university. I know what this is about. You see how dangerous it is when a man is playing with a computer. This is all prescribed by the first law, the whole argument. You see how funny that looks now. And now you're bringing Mrs. Comic here into an awkward situation, as she applies the Rules of Procedure, and now, of course, it's a mistake, you can correct that. Why is this law changing? Because of a visit that was in Serbia in May 2009, and that's when it was said -- you have to change this. If anyone thinks that after these changes and additions, we can immediately enter the World Trade Organization, he's made a big mistake, he's made a big mistake. Do you know what kind of great powers are not members of the World Trade Organisation? Protecting intellectual property rights in people who deal with biology, warfare, science in genetics, etc., to make it a condition for the WTO, come on, don't joke. SFRJ has done everything for 20 years to be a member of the WTO, so there's a Uruguay round, so this round, so these terms, they terms, so I don't tell you. It's a big subject. I just want to draw your attention, that – the condition for the WTO, you joked, you held a public debate in 2008 on the draft law written only in 2011, you made a mistake, technical error. Let's move on. To be members of this international association, we should be, nothing is disputed. The right of intellectual property of a plant coder, to be established, nothing is disputed. Should we follow science in that area? We should follow. Nothing's disputed. Did we have extra-quality institutes, New Sad, Zemun, that I don't order any further, because I can make a mistake, giants of my own time? Exporting both technology and seeds and production etc., etc. Stained since someone introduced the sanctions, that's a fact. Are they in an awkward situation today because of unfair competition from abroad? They did. Why? We had a Minister of Agriculture who was funded by a large multinational company. Remember, we protested together about it. They're interested, they have their own representations, etc., etc. They were wondering in 2008 when it was a public debate, and it stands well written. Let's move on. Oh, Biden ordered it to change. Published in the media, it can't be stopped, but I won't provoke now, not to raise these fines I get, it's enough one incubator that you've charged from me, I can't finance two. What else did you write here? It says – this amendment of the law allows Serbia to access foreign newly created varieties, which primarily refers to species that are vegetatively reproduced - fruits, vines, ornaments, and which processors, the breeders do not want to introduce in Serbia without the possibility of protecting their processing rights based on the law. I'm interpreting the rights of both foreigners and our locals. The ultimate objective of this law is to protect the right of intellectual property, and what are you offering us here? He says – who and how will the solutions of the proposed law affect? You put agricultural producers first. Well, this isn't the Economic Producers Act, this isn't a law that solves some issue of agricultural producers. This is a law that addresses the issue of protection of intellectual property rights. So, first of all, they have to be fertilizers. It appears to be an incentive to create new plant varieties. Let's stop right there. In addition to this notorious genetically modified food, from genetically modified organisms, and that is covered by this and that's finding. We're running away from it. We've passed some law, and we're all afraid of the right, knowing the fact that we respect the law. Not this law, Mrs. Komic, but laws that regulate the transport of seeds, plants, products, means, second law, not this one. (President: the law that is not on the agenda. ) The second law regulates traffic, the second law regulates protection. This is a law that regulates the rights of intellectual property of inventors, scientists. It's very simple and simple, but the matter is the same. There must be that fear. You warned me a month ago when I affirmably expressed myself about our producers, about our experts who made some varieties, who proved themselves. You have criticised me for commending our food industry, because in some respects we have stronger technical and technological standards than those that apply in Western Europe, in terms of composition, corresponding percentages, etc. Our food should be placed as healthy food, quite healthy food, and something we get from abroad takes this long to open our eyes. And this phyto-agriculture and this border phyto-control, Mr. Petrovic, has to cut everything down. There's a lot of things that can get through us. Only through pollination for one mistake with genetically modified strain do you know how many thousands of hectares are infected. We have to take care of it. At the same time, we promote organic food, then organic food, etc. An ordinary man can tell the difference. Very simple and simple. It doesn't really touch this law, let's know right away. Eat that Dutch black onions and eat this pie maker of ours, so you can see what the difference is. Ours may not be pretty at first sight, but ours, pretty, good, no one threw him out. And the one you put in your mouth, you just chew it like gum. Or take these tomatoes. Our peasant, our kind, good. This one inside you see what his star is like, green, so they're still talking to him about something to sell, etc. We need our product as a brand to focus, we have to. Just to draw your attention, you see at the WTO, the WTO did not make it a condition that the state passed a law banning the production of food from genetically modified organisms, but as a condition it put the protection of the intellectual property rights of the processors. You see that hypocrisy. We were in a situation up until a few years ago that for everything there was an ISO standard, and an organization and quality, so we heard about some new regulations, so we heard that our potatoes couldn't go this big, but they had to be calibrated, it had to be this way, it had to go like this. So, technical standards have established the protection of their market or other products, as they defend their market. And we have thinking -- we should go towards the EU, whatever they write is a condition, we have to accept it. We can't open the subject of whether it's good or not. You see for yourself, in Europe some countries are opening up the issue. What is the EU and do they benefit from the EU? You've heard of Slovakia, it should give 10 billion. Where did the Slovaks get 10 billion to save Greece? They question what they say as if the directive is standard, and we accept it all. Take it, it's a civilized and smart world. It has to be accepted. I beg your pardon, every scientist, geneticist, who at the Institute has dealt with these things, now I've only taken these two institutes, Marinkovic is there, they have down at Smederjevska Palanke the one for vegetables, and we have, thank God, a lot of these institutes, are incomparably more quality than we could get from abroad. If it's more quality and safe from abroad than ours, and it's so expensive for us - far away, thank you, we won't. So I guess we have a far-reaching goal of protecting and improving our production, our economy, and not of adapting our consumption market to their production markets. That's what this is about. I wanted us to laugh a little bit more about these flossules that were piled up -- it'll benefit the state. I don't know what the benefits of the state will be. I really don't know what good it's gonna do for the state. We've submitted some of those amendments, if we can fix something a little bit. But the main goal of our debate is to draw attention, that it wants to promote itself with its kind here, to open the market for its varieties, to shut down our seed producers, etc. This is a matter of wastes, vines, etc. that it is a danger to the economy, the economy of the Republic of Serbia. A team before the Law was passed under the same conditions in 2009, and now something changes, as reportedly, that inventors have better protection. Under "better protection" we can go from abroad to anything, and you know it. I've had, but I've lost that list somewhere of all the representatives of these foreign institutes that sell seeds, disintegrate seeds, and don't make it any further, you know what I mean. When they visit big company stores, they advertise it. You know how? Masterly. Good conditions, so that you can sow, then a commodity plot, so that you can see, and then this, and then they call our televisions, and then the vineyards, the orchards, and then their institutes, and their cooperatives, just to put it on bread. So nice, you know how well they wash it, get it done, etc. But, our ministry, our government has an obligation here to take care of these. Not to stop scientific co-operation. Not at all. We need that knowledge. And a genius was born with us, so complete it with them, and perform a miracle, as the Japanese did by buying patents and innovations, a wonder of the world. That's what we're supposed to do. Why? And the Chinese have evolved nicely. In a good way. Why should a Chinese man have to love a Chinese man and a Serb should not love a Serb, a Serb must not love Serbia. You must love Serbia. You have to. Since you're suggesting, if you're thinking this way that we can fool the Americans, you're wrong, let me tell you right now. Whoever thought he could fool the Americans, he's dead. Please don't. If you think you can trick them into playing these games, they're turbo-frauders, you know. They've fooled the whole world. There are no fine games with them, politics etc. They let you go, they let you go...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62531	People's MP, there's no time to use it anymore. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding the principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Milorad Krstin, three minutes, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62532	Mr. Minister, the mini is glad you responded when my colleague Ilic exhibited. You have well noticed what it is that the parliamentary group wanted to take advantage of when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties. We're for the fertilizers. We're for intellectual property, but we're not for what might come and it's not a part of the agenda, which you said, and it's a great honor for you to say this. And that dot was part of the overture this morning with 35,000 signatures of Professor Chevarlic, and then a discussion directed, hitched by the chairman, I can't comment or wish...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62533	People's MP, I ask you, in the use of your time, to take care of your obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You're telling yourself that your intention was to talk about a point that wasn't on the agenda. Then, you violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you address me directly, demanding that such an intention be respected. Please, so obvious, that there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you use your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62534	First of all, I commended Mr. Secretary's reaction. I said we were all talking about the agenda, but we touched what was coming, and we don't want to get to that point on the agenda. Or to do business at one of the next sessions of the National Assembly. I am responsibly saying that the story of the SRS parliamentary group was strictly encouraged by a law that is now a part of the agenda. I repeat, we are the ones who support the fertilisers, we are the ones who support intellectual property, but we are afraid of future changes and the addition of the Law on genetically modified organisms. It's my story and I'm done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62535	Thank you. Does anyone else who hasn't used their right to Article 96 want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62536	Thank you very much. To remove all possible misunderstandings. My opinion is that this law is good for the state, that it is good for those who do business, farmers, that it is good for farmers and agricultural producers, that it is good for the national economy. When and if we bring these amendments and the additions to the law, we will be closer to the World Trade Organisation. There are different issues about customs protection for different types of goods and these negotiations are being conducted. There are other topics, but I don't think it's good for what to pass the law, but it's good for us to do it. To avoid any confusion, I think it is very good for Serbia to be a member of the WTO. That's where we can agree or disagree. I think that for the use of the economic potentials that we have in agriculture, I'm not talking about other branches of industry. Here I am talking about agriculture and the food industry, that it is good for us to get open space towards different markets that will be even more open when we become a member of the WTO, because I believe in the ability of the Serbian agricultural and Serbian industry. There's no reason to be afraid of competition when we're well organized, when the state does its job well. But to make no mistake, dealing with the economy is not a single thing. We need to have better management, and we need to have one serious approach to cost reduction, towards increasing our production power. I believe it's all possible to do, because what's been happening over the last few years is encouraging to me. I think in the food industry, we're going to have serious shifts, we're going to have serious investments. Someone here said we were exporting corn. It's true, we export it, I think it's much better to export starch than corn, so it's even better to export fruit juice than corn, so it's much better to export conditioning products and there's space for all of it. As for the participation of the professional public, representatives of all major institutes from Serbia participated and participated in these working groups here, so that they have a complete impact on the proposals coming before the ministry, afterwards before the government, and finally before you. The Institute of Novi Sad, the Institute of Zemun, the Institute of Smederjevska Palanca had representatives and they were very actively involved in all this. Finally, Russia is a member of the international Union to protect new plant varieties, such as the US and EU countries. Therefore, this law that allows us to become a member of this international union, I think it is really not disputed with any aspect and that this law is not a danger to anything that can happen here, and that is why I call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take a good step, to adopt these amendments and to supplement the law and to open space for both agricultural producers and processors, to create an institutional framework for them, and I am sure that they have the power to use it, to raise their production and to increase their gross social product and increase, most importantly, to earn everyone who participates in this business, because that is the only way we can live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62537	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 96? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If so, please sign in. Since no one wants a word anymore, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill and we're finishing this morning's session. I now set a break and the afternoon session will continue at 14.00 hours, with a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. As I have already announced to the MPs, we will work in the afternoon and after 1800 hours if he requests the completion of this joint search. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session with a joint principled review on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and a Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, on the joint principled search of the 16th and 17th agenda points, besides the representative of the proposing Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, has called for the sittings to be attended by Jovan Ćosic, head of the justice department, and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the group at the Justice Ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for the 16th and 17th agendas, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement, and with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, which obliges us all to submit applications with lists of MPs who wish to take part in the debate in the session's session, before opening a principled search, joint principled search or joint single search. Please, who else wants to hand over the list to do so until the opening of a joint principle search. I also inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs on these agenda points: MP Djuro Peric - PUPS Parliament Group; MP Djordje Milicevic - SPS - JS MP Vjerica Radeta - SRS. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62539	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, as you know, are on the agenda today to amend and supplement the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. The Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office detailed the institution of the remote judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, both the reasons for their distance and the jurisdiction to take decisions on distance, length of distance and the right to legal remedy against such a decision. An important law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, however, provides for only one case of distance, and a mandatory distance, in the case of a motion to dismiss an election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors of the National Assembly. Such a distance may take place until the decision of the National Assembly on the discharge of that member. It is precisely out of the need to remove members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors, from the provisions of the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutors, which are subject of a far-reaching matter, that is to say, the proposed solutions are governed by cases where distance is applied for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council and is closer to regulating the procedure, i.e. jurisdiction for making such a decision and the right to legal remedy, as well as the duration of the distance. The proposed laws foresee that there are two types of distances, both mandatory and optional. There is a mandatory distance in the case of any member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors, being designated in custody. Also, a valid legal solution has been retained where distance is mandatory if a proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly for the resolution of an election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors. When it comes to election members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, it is predicted that there is another reason for mandatory distance, and that when a decision has already been taken to distance them from the public prosecutor's office, that is, the deputy public prosecutor. This reason does not exist with election members of the High Council of Judges, for the reasons that these members of the High Council of the judiciary during their post at the High Council of the judiciary have been released from the exercise of the judicial office, while members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors are not. The proposed laws provide for a university distance for election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council, in the case where proceedings for the resolution of members of these bodies have been initiated against them, as well as where criminal proceedings have been brought against them for which they may be dismissed from the position of members. I'll remind you that it's criminal acts that could put an unconditional sentence in prison, i.e. criminal acts that make them unworthy to act as members of the High Council, or the State Council. In view of the reasons that must be examined in each particular case and the distance is optional. The decision on the distance of a member of the High Council, i.e. the State Council, shall, in all cases, be taken by the President of the High Council, or by the State Council. In cases where distance is optional, the legal distance of a member of the High Council, i.e. the State Council, shall be provided for by law, more specifically to the objection. The Council of the State shall decide on the submission of the complaint within eight days of the date of delivery of the complaint. It is also foreseen that a declaration of objection shall not retain the enforcement of a decision on distance until a decision has been taken. In addition, the proposed laws are also prescribed a permanent distance, depending on the reasons why the distance is set. At the end of this presentation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, I would like to point out that these amendments are necessary, because despite being a member of the highest judicial authorities, as well as one should enjoy the most possible trust in professional and moral qualities. It is also necessary to provide for the possibility of a member of the High Council, i.e. the State Council, being removed from that function in specific cases, in particular when a court ruling is brought against him. On that side, no one, nor the highest official of the judiciary, can be untouchable in a better position than the rest of the country's citizens. On the other hand, only a distance, of course, does not prejudge the final decision on whether someone will be resolved, since such a decision depends solely on the fulfilment of the legal reasons for the resolution under the precise procedure. Also, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that following the debate in the National Assembly these draft laws will create normative assumptions for the precise regulation of the institution of distance from office and for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, which has not been precisely regulated so far. I thank you for your attention one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62540	Do the officials of the committees want a word, the chairman of the Legislative Committee Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Committee on Justice and Administration want a word, MP Bosko Ristic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62541	Ladies and gentlemen, these two laws were passed in 2010. This is already the second change, and it says that these laws were false in the very beginning, and we talked about it when the laws were passed. And that's when we turned our attention, and not just with these laws, but with all the so-called. reform judicial laws, so you can tribunalise the Serbian judiciary. In addition to this today, we will make new claims. We claimed a lot when these laws were passed, but now we're going to illustrate it with concrete examples. Why are you changing this law today? Because Blagoje Jaksic appeared because a member of the VSS who was arrested for abuse of position appeared. When you elected members of the VSS, we then claimed that you did not choose the best, honorable, honest and professional ones. You claimed the opposite of that, you swore it was the best possible convocation that could have been in VSS and DVT. Turns out we were right and you made a mistake. The questions stemming from that fact, and you yourself admit that this is the reason, in fact, to question the decisions both VSS and DTV have made in the meantime. If a judge was elected in the VSS by a man who was arrested for abuse of office, and before that, you claimed that in 2006, it seems to me, he was the best judge at the time of the First Municipal Court, according to the media in Belgrade. So, obviously, it's a major failure of both the Ministry and the Supreme Cassation Court and the Assembly's majority. Now you're trying to correct it by changing the law. We heard a frantic statement here the other day from a fellow ruling majority, you, Madam Minister, were not there, when in some debate with MPs, I think with someone from the SRS, a colleague said that Djura Mutavi introduced to Serbia's protection witness institute, which I wrote back then. It's really something that's scary. You, in fact, from case to case, we keep warning you, when you happen to have a situation where you need to extend detention, you change the law, you extend detention; when you want Djura Mutavi to speak, you bring the law and introduce a protected witness; when you are arrested Blago Jaksic, you change the law to make this possible, I will talk about it, and through the amendments we have expressed, in order to get you into a situation that does not repeat this situation. You haven't solved all the problems again because basically the laws aren't good. Why did we claim and now confirm that this is, in fact, the tribunalisation of the Serbian judiciary? In this way, in The Hague, the tribunal is changing the rules on procedure and evidence. More than 40 times they've changed that rulebook, come into a situation that they need to decide that some way that isn't provided for in the rulebook and have a member: bis, and, quad. As long as they have letters, they have so many pendants with that particular member. You, unfortunately, have now shown that you are doing similar to them. What we in the SRS want to draw your attention to is the work of both of these, should be extremely significant institutions: VSS and DVT, logically and all those they chose. You can't tell us now that that choice was without error because, I repeat, someone you arrested participated in the election. I don't want to call him a criminal because he's not convicted, but you arrested him for abuse of office. If he gets convicted, then he really is a criminal. That's what the judges and prosecutors in Serbia chose. Someone expects that Serbia's judiciary is indeed reformed today and that Serbia's judiciary is working in accordance with the law and without any external and internal influences. Unfortunately, it's not like that. If that isn't the way we're gonna show it on a few examples. Actually, we're going to ask you as Minister for a few questions. You may be able to answer us, and for some, you may have to consult, but since you are a minister who has correct co-operation with MPs, in the sense that you are willing to answer and talk to us, we really expect that, if not today, then to the other discussion of the particulars, you will answer the questions you will hear today, which relate to the work of these two bodies whose functioning you today, in some ways, are changing these laws. The question is, are you as a minister, or is this our special court and the war crimes prosecutor's office, have they reacted in some cases where it was necessary and where it was necessary to respond? At least we haven't heard in public that they are, maybe they are, so you're going to tell us. Yasushi Akashi, former UN Secretary-General for the Balkans, informed the public that there is a UN act in which it is clear that Serbs are not responsible for the crime at Markals in Sarajevo. Do you know that on account of the crimes committed in the Markals, General Galic was sentenced to several years in The Hague? Are you or our special court and prosecutor's office, have you spoken to The Hague tribunal to say – people, this procedure must be renewed, you have condemned a man for something no Serb is guilty of at all? The Muslims from Sarajevo are guilty, and any condemnation by the UN tribunal is the condemnation of the Serb people, you know that. Did you do something, react, did you react as minister in the bar to ask the lawyers representing Galic if they had applied for a revision of the procedure? Does any of the authorities in this country react when it comes to such significant matters, particularly for the Serbian national interest? Madam Minister, did you react, I assume you have this, and here we have the verdict of the Shiptar Court where those drivers from Raska were convicted. Did one of our competent authorities react that the Cypriot judges of the so-called so-called so-called so-called Judges could do it? The Shiptar Court to judge Serbs from Raska? And in general, have you foreseen through these two laws how will the status of judges and prosecutors at KIM be regulated? You know exactly what they're threatening us with, threatening to introduce some of their institutions. Are we at least trying to stop it through the laws? That is, you who propose laws and the majority of the assembly that makes the laws. Do you know, Mrs Malovic, that, among other things, there were negotiations between Serbs from four municipalities in the north of KIM with state President Boris Tadic, is it possible that one of the authorities also did not warn Boris Tadic of certain things? Did you know that he told Serbs with KIM that the existence of a customs seal does not mean the existence of customs, that the existence of customs does not mean the existence of a border? We all know that this is a silent recognition of the false state of Kosovo, as is this in the area of justice, which is your direct jurisdiction, such as the problems that the judges and prosecutors of KIM have, you certainly know, it's impossible not to know because everyone knows it. They're probably talking to you, too. Remember when we talked about one of these laws, when I drew attention to you that some judges and prosecutors wrote to us and told us that they were getting threats even then, more than a year ago, threats and warnings from your ministry that they had to work and in Shiptar courts, otherwise they would be fired in courts under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we asked you at the time, and then you didn't give us an answer. In the meantime, you may have found out who's doing this to you in the ministry. The question that has also not been regulated by these two laws on amendments and additions to these laws that we are talking about today is, again, we are talking about your ministry directly and again, the Special Court and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. You know, about two months ago, news appeared in the media that Croatia was sending some sort of indictment against Alexander Vasiljevic for some war crimes, for the existence of some of the camps he was running. At that time, the Secretary of State from your ministry, Slobodan Homen, said a terrible line in public, that it is not time to discuss it now. Imagine, it's not time to discuss war crimes. War crimes don't go out of date, and it's always time and opportunity to find out about some war crime to bring a criminal to justice as soon as possible, to carry out the procedure and to adequately condemn himself. I believe you share that opinion. The question we also point to you as a ministry, as a minister and a special court and prosecutor's office – did they respond to these accusations from Croatia against Aleksandar Vasiljevic? Aleksandar Vasiljevic is a favorite of all systems, and he is the one who handled the crime on Ovcara and it is a public secret. Many people have been charged with the crimes of the Sheepdogs. One of the charges against Vojislav Seselj refers to a crime in Ovcara. In Belgrade, in a special court, some people have been sentenced to years of imprisonment for crimes in Ovcara, some who were involved in the crime, but some who had nothing to do with it, such as Predrag Milojevic Chinese, who had nothing to do with the crime in Ovcara, which unfortunately happened, but happened on the warrant and knowledge of Aleksandar Vasiljevic. Why are you pulling out some alleged crimes for which no one can convict him? Why don't you first and foremost clear yourself from your people, why don't you say, "Yes, this man who is a false witness in The Hague tribunal in almost all the procedures where they call him, why don't you bring him to justice?" You know, you should know that he took three retired colonels to Ovcara, a massacre that happened there. But he's obviously not going to answer for it. Why didn't you ask your colleague from Croatia who charged him with some senseless acts, why not charge him with assaulting the Jewish municipality in Zagreb, for destroying the Jewish cemetery in 1991 in Zagreb? What's wrong with our entire judiciary? Especially interesting is this special court and special prosecutor's office of war crimes. They don't care about Serbian national interests. Not to return to Purda, to the Wildlings, to many who have committed crimes against Serbs. It is simply not the topic of the interest of those people he chose, among other things, and of this Blagoje Jaksic. This is why we associate it with these two laws, because this fact that in the High Council of the Judiciary voted and decided by the man who was arrested for abuse of office we give the right to question any decision taken by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. We're afraid he won't be a single case. We're afraid that we're going to have to discuss the amendments and additions to these laws again for a while, because maybe you haven't covered all the possible variations and you haven't, and we're going to show you now and when we're talking specifically about some members of this law. You've left the possibility of abuse again, you've left the possibility of a flat-rate assessment again, and that's not good. You as a lawyer should know, and every fellow who votes, that if you have in law, as you have in this Article 1, a new member of the 9a "can be". In law, Mrs. Malovic, the word "can" should not stand. The legal standard must be precise, concise, clear, binding. Either he has to or he doesn't have to, or he is or he isn't. To whom do you leave the election member of the council, or the State Council of Prosecutors, to be away from this function when the procedure for his discharge from the position of a member of the council is launched, or a criminal procedure for the work for which he may be dismissed from the position of a member of the council? Look how heavy these are, so he's got nothing to look for in the judiciary. Someone who's been charged with this by the third member I quoted, the one in court and the prosecution can only get in with handcuffs, and you're leaving a possibility that he can get away or he can't. He's committed a crime, there's been a criminal case for a crime that can be cleared of the duties of a member of the council, and you're leaving the possibility of someone leaving him to continue to judge, to file charges, etc. Until when, until when and what happens to what he does in the meantime? This just can't be like this. As you may not in this second Article 9b in point 1 you have written that a decision on a distance from the seat of a Council member shall be made by the President of the Council. Don't give this much authority to one man, don't let Blagoja Jaksic happen to you. If there are more of you, I guess there are some in that group who are honorable and honest. At least let the whole Council decide on it. Why is it just the President of the Council, so it's nobody's front, these things are serious, Mrs. Malovic. Very serious. You know a state that has a bad judiciary there's no state. As long as we don't have a serious judicial system, the responsible, unsuspecting and unsupervised influence of the judge and the prosecutors, we won't solve a single problem. So why is Serbia at the top of crime and corruption? Why are our corrupt representatives in all the institutions of the system? We're reading this from the data you're getting from your European friends. We didn't make this up, and besides, every citizen in Serbia knows this. How do you think you're dealing with corruption and crime, if you don't have reliable judges and prosecutors, if you don't have fair judges and prosecutors, if you don't have good laws and you don't have people who are willing to apply the laws either by their grandmother or by your uncles. The laws apply, the laws are all the same and the law is the same for everyone. Unfortunately, Serbia is far from it for a light year. Because you've done everything wrong in this so-called. With reforms, Blagoje Jaksic is one of your best evidence. I know, you're probably going to say that, and I'm finishing it, and I often hear it from the public, and the representatives of the regime boast that, well, nobody is protected, everyone can be arrested, it's not, of course, true. For in all the affairs you go, when you come to the top of the pyramid, it stops there. But it is disputed how someone who was elected a year ago and five years ago was the best judge, how did you not know that he had been involved in crime and corruption since ten years ago? You're changing the law for free, if you don't seriously, not you personally, but the whole regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62542	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session's course, please sign in to the electronic system? No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing and with the order of the MPs that it submitted the SRS parliamentary group and the first registered on the list of speakers for debate in a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law of the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, the People's MP Milorad Buha, followed by the MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62543	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing amendments and additions to two laws that were passed in 2008, with changes in 2010, but we are discussing an urgent procedure. Why is it important to highlight this – by emergency procedure? Because, in fact, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, these two laws live for more than three, three and a half years, and now from once in an urgent procedure, we introduce these two laws. What's the reason? What could be the reason? The reason is only one and his name is Blagoje Jaksic. If Blagoje Jaksic is the reason, then we have to worry about why, in life there are, in law life there are these two laws, living for three and a half years, there was no legal basis for what you are looking for now. Why didn't he exist? When the SRS comes out of 20, 30, 50, 200 amendments and corrects certain legal regulations, then even in public it causes certain negative discussions, discussions, why, etc. Now, you see, we're seriously accessing every substance in that short time, and sometimes we have a day, two to make these amendments, to read the law, to see the gaps and try to correct those gaps and fill in everything that can be filled out. You see, these laws were made for several years, until they came into this debate, so now you have three and a half years, etc., and suddenly Blagoje Jaksic comes to you and now, with all the problems we have in the system, starting with KIM, all the problems, Blagoje Jaksic, and now let's solve it. What's this all about? Politically persecuting a man? Or failure of systems that are based on a number of basics, which led to the appearance of Blagoje Jaksic, that you arrest him etc. And in the end, you realize that he was, for a reason, arrested, that he was a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and that he was involved in all this, and it was the crimes of the last century, ten, 12, 15 years ago. Did the justice system have information about his, or certain doubts about his criminal activity? Yes, he did. The prosecutions had all the documentation of what he had done, the moment he committed those crimes, even on your part and by the judicial institutions and prominent representatives of the justice systems about him there were many praises, about how he was first, how he was best, etc. And now suddenly the arrest, etc., etc. All this is about the seriousness of the government, the indifference of the ministry, the impertinence of the entire system created by this government. When we talk about Blago Jaksic, he is just one example of the indifference of power. I mention, in the judicial system, one case that is characteristic of how through political volunteerism, through unserious political statements, in fact agreed policy at the level of the region, we do legal stupidity and make so many gaps in the legal system, that it is tragic and comical to talk about them in this way, especially when there are specific crimes behind it. It is specifically about the trial of Ilija Jurisic, who was sentenced from the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia to 12 years, 12 years in prison, and then suddenly in some procedure, an emergency - legal remedy, etc., the verdict was abolished, he was released, etc. It's about the man who committed the war crime in which they participated on one side of the Federation unit who killed 50 young men, innocent young JNAs, 44 young men were then injured, huge material damage was done, etc. Suddenly, nothing. The President of the Republic then said we must punish everyone, but we must not let innocents die. That was sufficient reason for a valid President of the Court of Appeal, then the district court, to pass a liberating verdict. That's tragic. That's how he was released and the savage, so he was freed and Purda. Now I'm going to do a few sentences of OPurdi, because he's an integral part of all of this. It is a disgrace to the justice system of the Republic of Serbia in which the entire system, the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, participated, was sworn by the prosecution that Purda committed a crime. The Croats said, we have no evidence, etc. We leave him to you. They did it cleverly, we fell for it, all the paperwork was with us. In the end, we apologize. The man has filed one criminal charges against the Republic of Serbia and will receive it, it has been nominated to two million euros plus interest as much as one against BiH because he was arrested in BiH on the basis of an indictment, i.e. an arrest warrant, an Interpol warrant, which we initiated back in 1992 on the basis of military procedures. No one's seen it, no one's picked it up for 20 years, no one's ever processed those charges. That's what the D.A.'s office does, and then we embarrass ourselves in front of the world, that's a mess. It's the world's mess. We who say that someone has committed a crime on us and we swear that our people have been killed, etc. And when we need to point out who really committed that crime, then we have no proof. At the end of the day, Homen comes out and says - based on documentation and fact, we can't sue Mr. Purda. Purda is suing us, and we will lose both of us and this other dispute that has been launched against BiH, she will refund the costs because she will have to pay, because she has arrested illegally. When it's all added up in three, four, five years it's going to be a few million euros. This is all paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the irresponsible, sloppy work of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Who was responsible for all this? Mrs. Malovic, I ask you who will be responsible for the illegal treatment of Purda? We know that he has committed a crime and should answer, but based on a valid indictment that you have not collected, you have not collected everything that has been valid or there has been political pressure from certain political leaders who have said not one Croat can answer. But someone will have to answer for the compensation the Republic of Serbia will pay. The latest developments in Croatia, the event several days ago, the Croatian Parliament voted in favour of the futility of all charges from the 1991 period and beyond, those made in the organisation of the former JNA military prosecutor's office. Prior to that, Prime Minister Kosor used one sentence where she also accused the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, all state institutions, and said the charges that came from Serbia were stupid and illiterate. It's a ruckus. It's a violation of the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Did any of you come out and say that's not true, what they delivered to you, the 44 indictments that came out of the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia are valid, they're legal, they're based on facts, data on the war crime that was committed in the period from - to? Look, they're laughing at the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. They mock the Republic of Serbia, the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Everybody shut up. Why don't you shut up? Your secretary of state condemned everything that was done by the Croatian Assembly, or the Croatian Parliament. Why the system of reciprocity? This assembly, for you to be the promoter, all the crimes that are on the so-called so-called. To Croatian war crimes charges suggest that this is on their side which has been delivered in vain. Isn't that appropriate? Reciprocity in international law is a legitimate legal institute that applies every state. Why don't you apply that here? You're scared. Who are you afraid of? There is international law behind you, there is domestic legislation behind you, and there is justice behind you. Crime and genocide were committed against Serbs. That's what you raised your hand for when you adopted the decision in January 2010 to file a countersuit against Croatia where it was found that a crime was committed against Serbs. What are you ashamed of? Why don't you say it loud and clear – there is a crime committed against Serbs, if you don't apply international law, domestic law in Croatia and do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which obliges you to one, the other, third, we do the same on the basis of reciprocity. I have to mention here a case that's also in the judicial system and you know it very well. It is Mile Dakic, a Krajisnik man who was arrested in BiH and delivered to Croatia. His wife met me a few minutes ago and asked me to point out the aspects of his arrest, the problems he has. He's a sick man and he's 81 years old. Nor was it in military structures, police structures, state structures of Republika Srpska. He was arrested on the justice of God only because he was investigating genocide against Serbs during World War II and during this war. There is open discrimination against him. He's a sick man. They won't let him use his meds. During this warm summer, he spent several hours in the sun. It is exposed to a temperature of 35 to 38 degrees per few hours. It's a crime against that man. On several occasions, we pointed to various associations. Republika Srpska's government has warned you that it is discrimination against this man, he is innocent, etc. Everything that was done over him was done before the war, etc. These are political qualifications for which they are charged. You must save him, he will remain on his soul both to you and to the Ministry and to the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia because it is an innocent man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62544	It was used 12 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62545	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Madam Minister, if for a moment we should forget the great obligations of the finance minister, the minister of education, the minister of economic activity, you are the next man to have enormous obligations, you and the police minister. You see lately that very often there is a major attack on state and private property, on personality, on human integrity, and that should be prevented. A lot of cops have been missing lately. Of course, I can't claim now whether there are enough or not, but it's known that in certain days they may be concentrated in an inadequate way. Now I would like to say why explicitly in the Constitution are your biggest obligations when I say and if we can forget those sectors in our government that determine, create and conduct politics, where we would create conditions of employment, treatment, education and so on, Article 142 of Article 1 of the Constitution says – the judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You clearly recognize what should and must be your ministry's obligation. Are you able to deal with such and so many problems, and probably not? It cannot be done by itself by the minister of justice or by any individual unless it is done by the President of the Republic, unless it is done by the Government in general. The SRS and you as justice minister in this government are absolutely in agreement, which is that we need a reform of the justice system. That's where your consent ends. The way you think about it is that judicial reform should be carried out and the way the SRS feels that judicial reform should continue to have no common points. Article 143(1) The constitution says what kinds of courts exist in Serbia. You're headed that way. Such laws have been passed – courts of general and special jurisdiction. We felt that courts of general jurisdiction could do the best, in the most functional way to solve all the problems that would be in the area of justice. The law on courts, where you are calling for reasons to pass this law, I can tell you that the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Law on the State Council of the Prosecutors could have been written in one machine, so to speak. Only where the High Council of the Judiciary stands should the State's Major Prosecutors stand because all the provisions that change are exactly the same. You say – given that the Law on Judges provides for the possibility of distance from the judge and for other reasons, except in the case of a procedure for resolution, it is necessary to provide for other cases in the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary where it is possible to remove a member of the High Council from that function. You say that here, as if yesterday we passed a law on courts, so we forgot, and today we're passing a law on the High Council of the Judiciary, and we forgot to state some individual cases and here we are today intervening. No, this law was passed in 2008 and one and the other. Therefore, this is not the case, but it happened, as my former colleagues, the SRS MPs, say, was Judge Blagoja Jaksic, a man who was a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. He's still doing it today. Now what the wider public is aware of is that he abused his position 10 years ago, and I have to tell you, it is becoming more and more common among the elected and unselected judges, that what twice a month decides on the objections of the unselected judges, Judge Jaksic, and on average it is at a meeting of the panel, which is three-member, by 20 cases, is about to be resolved, that Judge Jaksic, as a member of the rapporteur from that one commission, was the largest number of judges returned, and perhaps that is the reason. The Serbian Radical Party in no way wants to make the position and position of Judge Jaksic difficult, nor to contribute to his defence. So let one process be conducted independently of what is to be done. You are now predicting and proposing to amend the State Council Act for the same reasons, as it is not foreseen that a member of the State's Attorney's Office can be removed in case he is in custody. It says – the law is proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure, as its prerogative could result in adverse consequences for the work of the High Judicial Council. We have a particular reason here to intervene that this law is changing. But what's the situation with the D.A.'s office? So we don't have a case like this yet, but we're going to show you that you haven't worked out this matter enough and that I can appear to you, and we're going to make an effort, this is a strictly professional area, but it allows, given that it's a judicial reform, to allow a little wider observation so that we can point out to you the things that you've missed out on. We wouldn't be surprised if some draft law on amendments and additions to the law on high council of the judiciary or on the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office came again in a month, because you forget that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutor's Office, I will try to speak in parallel, since I have already said, it could have been written under the matrix, have 11 members, and that three of them are by function, it is you as minister of justice, the chairman of the Board of Administration and the judiciary, and in the case of the Supreme Court of Justice, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. When it comes to the State's Major Prosecutors, then there's a republican public prosecutor. Can't things happen with them, too? Can't a resolution procedure be initiated in their case? In the first position of Article 9a, you said – if he is in custody. So for all members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, if they are in custody, they will be temporarily removed. This applies to both the selected and the members of the function. But afterwards, you say – if a procedure is launched to resolve the elected member of the judiciary, it can also temporarily fail to perform that function. Can't you run your recall? What until he finally gets rid of it? Can't the impeachment be initiated, we're talking about things that you might be talking about in a month or two or three, can't a procedure be initiated to resolve the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee? It can be DS, he's her member, but he just doesn't like it, Bosko Ristic won't listen, conditionally, hypothetically speaking. One thousand is the reason why a recall procedure can be initiated. This does not apply to those members who function. For what? You'll have that problem tomorrow. When we spoke, we spoke and pointed out similar cases that could be reminded. However, we couldn't look at beans or cards or anything like that, so let's tell you, of the eight elected members, there are six judges, I'm talking about the High Court Council, six members are from the court, we couldn't tell you the name and your last name is going to happen to you. We don't even know who's cute and who's not. That's why we're assuming that this situation can appear to you. That is why, when colleague Verica Radeta says that these laws in the field of judicial reform, we can talk about the Law on Courts, the Law on the Network of Courts, to call it Colloquially, the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, the High Council of the Judiciary, are very often changed, as is the case with this Regulation on Procedures and Evidence in The Hague. You know that criminal matter and matter in the field of justice is a serious matter and we, thank God, have a large number of good legal experts and professors at law schools and judges with long-term life experience and with good professional practice. But that wasn't enough, because when the judge was elected, do you know how many mistakes there were? It was not possible that someone who was a Supreme Court judge was not re-elected, and later he was hired as a lecturer at the Judicial Academy, in law school courses, in notary courses, I don't know where they were taking these people, and he couldn't be elected Supreme Court Judge or in any other court. No, but whoever liked him, and I've told you before, you've made an assessment of how many judges this government and this regime can count on to be obedient, and then it started out and so many numbers have been chosen. Here's another problem. It stands for you - how and when you will meet those requirements, i.e. the objections of the unselected judges if it is known that on a monthly level, in one month, they decide on 40 objections? How long does it take to get rid of 800 demands? When it comes to the prosecution's objections, that's where you've brought the end, because there have been many fewer, and when it comes to judges, it takes two more years to decide, or that the Supreme Council of the judiciary decides whether or not their commissions, and until then they will be paid, even though those who are not elected say that the last of their fees are, I don't know what I'd call it, whether they're salaries, whether it's their right or not, they don't even know anymore. The last one was paid in August for the month of February, March the month has not yet been paid. The problem in order for Serbian citizens not to pay for something they don't have to pay and simply, they can't even pay anymore, has to be resolved as soon as possible. Another, and I suppose you know the situation on October 4th when it was decided on the objection of the president of the Society of Judges, so the exception was requested, it seems to me that it was called Professor Dimitrijevic, his exemption, and it gave up, so he said, "I will exempt myself specifically from this case, but later that same day he continued to decide on the objections of the next judges who were on the same day." Is that possible? What is this relationship to the items that were to be solved? What is the relationship between people who are supposed to share justice tomorrow? Is it possible to have a situation like this? Now here you see this, a decision on distance from a council member's office is being made by the president of the council. My colleague, Veronica Radeta, said it wasn't good. I'll tell you why it's not good. As we are right not to go, not twice about the same thing, we will have a situation here that the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and that is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, he will make a decision on the distance from office, and later, within eight days, he will decide upon the appeal of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council. He will participate equally with the other members once and for the second time, of course, only he will not be able to decide which judge he refers to, and these others will be able to do so. I need to ask you one more question. For example, is something about these legal changes, so there will be new members to add, to change something, to have brothers Pantic, Miroslav from Smederjevska Palanka and Pantic Radomir from Azanja, whose process and process is being completed, everything is in work, but I am also talking about future procedures, which should not have happened, whose procedure lasted over 15 years? What kind of justice is that? What's the relationship between a lawyer and a judge? These are the problems where in 15, 20 years, a man loses a lot of material resources by leading these actions, and God forbid, and the health situation changes. Or, perhaps Srecko Jovanovic, who is conducting a case against PTT, which also takes nearly ten years, where there is no way to protect itself, and when it comes to a state or a state body, there can be no harm done to an individual without any conduct. Your obligations and your responsibilities are very high, and let me remind you once again, of all these examples my colleagues spoke of, you as minister of justice, you have to check what this is all about. Why don't we gather enough evidence when we press charges against foreign citizens? Why such a relationship? You know, it might be better if we didn't do anything, rather than later that the institutional system, the judiciary, the prosecution, are being thrown out, someone said, close to us, Croatia, far away and far from other countries, are making fun of us and not just the judicial system, of course the Ministry of Justice, but also the citizens of Serbia. As much as we are against this government, as it is, it represents the interests of Serbian citizens and, if it does not work well, it is the attitude of foreign citizens to the citizens of Serbia. We don't want that kind of relationship, we want a completely different and totally decent relationship. Because of that and everything we've put forward, we can't vote for laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62546	Fourteen minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62547	Madam Minister, this reform of yours cannot be completed. We all know it started in 2008, then in 2009, then in 2010, and here it is during 2011. It will almost end this government, and I would say that the reform of the Serbian judiciary is not yet over. We're just thinking that it's already over, you show up with a proposal to amend and supplement some law. As we today have before us proposals to amend and supplement two laws, the Law on the High Court and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. However, what is symptomatic, Madam Minister, is, or that may be a coincidence, you will say, but I think what this government is and how you do, that it is absolutely not a coincidence. Almost all the laws that you have submitted to this assembly, from 2008 to today, concerning reform of the Serbian judiciary, have been passed, or have been proposed mainly by an emergency procedure and by the second half, let me say, in the evening of each year. And in 2008, remember, and in 2009, 2010, this may be some of the earliest times when you date with a proposal to amend and supplement these laws. I'd say it was an emergency that made you do it. You are proposing in these two amendments and additions to the law one new institute, which is a distance from the function of a member of the Council. Among other things, you here predict that a member of the Council is bound to distance himself from that function when he has been detained, right, and when a motion for his resolution has been submitted. So a criminal case for a crime that could get him resolved. You further predict, therefore, that the decision to move away from the Council's post should be made by the almighty President of the Council. In this case, President of the Council, Nata Mesarevic. I'd say, Madam Minister, it's a new prize for Mrs. Nati. If it were the new bingo Mrs. Nata Mesarevic received, it was a new prize for those famous words – we received a verdict. You remember, when she read that, about giving a conviction for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. We really can't help but congratulate this lady. We can't not congratulate Nati Mesarevic, because every year, from this moment on, from this moment on, from the moment on, this verdict is read, to today, women are taking an adventure every year. It's really good for her. Keep going. There's a feeling that several, conditionally said several, are making you your own justice system. It is, not only from the proposal that these two laws are unequivocally concluded, but also from other laws within this famous reform of the Serbian judiciary. And no matter how many criticisms you get, not only from us from the SRS, but also, why not say so, you know well, from your friends from the EU, from that Venice Commission, from the Association of Lawyers, Prosecutors from the EU, etc. You're just making your own way. You're doing what you're going to do, and you're going to do it your way, regardless of the consequences. When we criticise you from the SRS and when you're criticized by those of you from the EU, that's two diametrically different things. We criticise you with argument, we always tell you what's wrong and we tell you that reform of the judiciary won't bring our judiciary where you say it will, etc. What is the interest of the EU, that this area of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors should be properly arranged in Serbia? What's the interest of someone who takes away our state territory, who takes away 15% of our country, in the interest of this district of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, now we're talking about it, being arranged in the right way? Simply, this persistent insistence on compliance with the rules, with EU laws, does not have a foothold in some common sense. Because if this Europe is blinded and doesn't see what's going on in Serbia and doesn't see all the suffering of the Serbian people, what do we need Europe for? Why do we need an alliance with those who take away our country territory and make us blind in the eyes? The reason for the adoption of these laws is the recent event, we heard, related to the arrest of Blago Jaksic, a member of the High Council of the judiciary for, again, saying, alleged abuse of the official position, because as president of the Kosovo Mitrovica Municipal Court, he again allegedly made it possible for his friend, a certain Ljubomir Bisevec, to obtain an illegal property benefit of over 20 million dinars. That's what we could officially hear about Blago Jaksic's arrest. How are you, Madam Minister, how is your ministry, how is this authority consistent when you deal with those who don't think like you and who don't work like you, so, as far as we can find out, you transferred this gentleman's wife from the prosecutor's post to some Belgrade prosecutor's office, to some prosecution in Vojvodina. I don't know if anyone found out where his kids work. Maybe that would be some useful information in this case. It is not my intention at all to defend this man and to implement it as it should be carried out, but in principle I am talking about the situation of how you do it and how long you go in that alleged reform of the Serbian judiciary. The Society of Judges, Mr. Minister, on the other hand says that the arrest must be observed in one broader context, that this must be seen in the context of re-election of judges and prosecutors and in the context of his ongoing audit, right? I hope you know what the Society has shown. Did this unfortunate Blagoje Jaksic read any statements at the beginning of this year 10 months ago? If he had read it, he might have acted differently. Do you know this statement, Madam Minister? I'm going to have to quote it, since, I'd say, it's very interesting. She says, "It is my message that those who work in the Serbian judiciary show their contribution to implementing the reform and restoring trust and will be rewarded, and those who do not respond to this task, there are precise rules on how to look at the gaps in their work." I hope you know this sentence. So there are precise rules on how to look at the failures in the work of certain people, how to look at failures in the work of those who are insubordination. Seems to you, your failures are best seen through that keyhole in prison. However, what is symptomatic is that, in the context of this reform of the judiciary and in the context of these two laws whose proposals we have today on the agenda, each year from 2008 to today, you are moving from one phase to another. With this famous sentence, which is nothing more than a serious threat to those who are insubordination, you've actually transformed yourself now into a second phase, from one stage when judicial reform is to be made into a completely different phase when judicial reform has to be done. And this transformation from one phase to another was followed by a kind of threat, a sentence worthy of the manners of the former Cominterne. And I think Broz's minister of justice would be able to tell himself in a sentence like this, and he couldn't come up with it either. How much more humiliation will go in this area, as long as there will be humiliations in all areas of life in Serbia, and how much more will Serbian citizens really suffer and participate in these humiliations? In the reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, Madam Minister, you have put that his prerogative by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the High Council of Justice. What harmful consequences? Are the consequences of this Blagoje Jaksic's most adopted objections to the unselected judges? The man had 55 adopted objections from unselected judges. Then you stopped, Madam Minister, to consider his cases. At two sessions of the High Council, his cases ceased to be considered. Is it that there are no adverse consequences? It is true that our man does not often know how to stop in due time, either on the rise or on the fall, and that is evident from every action, including yours. If you couldn't stop from 2008 and not in this reform of the judiciary, until today, I'm sure you won't be able to stop in time for a fall, a political downturn. But we will survive and this reformed judiciary of yours, just as we have survived the entire dossage rule of these past 10-11 years. You have succeeded in this radical policy both in the judiciary and in other areas of life in Serbia to absolutely bring Serbian citizens to their knees. But what Serbian citizens should know once and for all is that it is really not a shame to fall, it is a shame not to get up and not get up. That's probably what they do now, when the end of your reign, they know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62548	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic and he is the last to be registered on the list of speakers. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 29 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62549	Mrs. Komic, the SRS parliamentary group has the legitimate right to continue criticising judicial reform because we are the only one in this room and the only parliamentary group that has set out to attack sharply all the innovations that have been made, starting since the end of 2009, especially in early 2010, and one of these laws that has been exposed to our harsh criticism is this law, or both of these laws, as regards the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors. At the beginning, I must say that this first one on the agenda, which concerns the judiciary, given the level of changes proposed by Nata Mesarevic, Snezana Malović, Boška Ristić, Mirjana Ivić, Milomir Lukić, Blago Jaksic, Branko Bančević, Aleksandr Stojiljkovski, Sonja Vidanović, Dejan Ciric and Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic. Why? Because there's talk of a distance from the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary, which is exactly what I mentioned. However, there is also a particular emphasis on the chosen one, and it is known how members of this High Council of the judiciary are elected. It is true that the direct cause for this intervention, when it comes to the High Council of the Judiciary, is Judge Blagoja Jaksic and then, by automation, it is spreading to this second draft of the law. There are some differences, because it's not the same status as judges and prosecutors, but it's some finesse we're going to leave for discussion in particular. At first, I'm taking a huge risk that you don't understand me very well. For all the epochal things in our judiciary, we first learn from Mr. Free Homen. He goes on TV, tells us nicely when it comes to the law and when it comes to these judicial authorities. However, he often tells us very often, and when it comes to certain specific, living objects, objects where there is only a basis for doubt. But the model resistance is already dictated by the verdict. So the question is, how are we supposed to consider it and make sure it's as objective as possible, one bill of law, when we already know the decision in advance? We can't stop him, and he's talking through the media that's under his control, and you know he's got one newspaper that's under his control. But, okay. Now let's go to this continuity. Thanks to this US donation to transform our judiciary, we have received a new category of people in the judiciary – those who have not been elected. They have the term, "I'm sitting at home, I'm getting paid." So, in this country, the best position and the best status have unselected judges - they get paid neatly, they have to run a job, they don't have to go to work. Why? Because their status is still undefined. Their status has been defined from the viewpoint of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, but they have been sued, snitched towards the EU and the European Commission said – please, we are returning it, this job should be completed. And now, if the direct cause of this change is what happened with this judge and at this stage we can say that there is only a suspicion that he is involved in some criminal act, because away from that we should not go, then by that same criterion we can say that there is a suspicion of the same act, of the same shop with a large number of judges and prosecutors that we have not yet been publicly informed of. We're not just being notified. And is there any doubt? There is. What's this suspicion going on? In a large number of criminal charges filed against judges. I can't think of any criminal charges that some people have written there, so they haven't informed me, but I can talk very competently about what I've been informed of and those reports, Mrs. Malovic, which I personally put together. So the question of satisfaction or answer is, has the answer come up, and is that an adequate answer? That's where I'm totally disappointed, that's what I have to tell you. We challenged these elections, you smiled at us – how you disputed our elections. Then, during a very short period, the public was informed, first from the ministry, that we used BIA data during the election. Scandal. Then the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic planted a tape recorder with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and found out to the public, through some other network, what was going on around these re-elections. Then WikiLeaks shows us some dispatches, we see that Okic, the president of the district court, at the US Embassy, sues the interior minister. Then Vukcevic goes to the embassy to talk. Then we have Saša Vukadinovic, director of the BIA, by Wikilix and by the dispatches, selling information to the BIA. Then we have a dispatch where Miki Rakic says that six months on the orders of President Tadic had to recruit these "zumbules". Now the question is, if these people are involved in these changes, in this transition, how do you like to say, what is this transition? It's just changes up. So it's a completely wrong direction. It can no longer be kept silent and heard echoes, echoes, how citizens react to these things. Mrs. Malovic, I almost came into possession of the case, 40 years of first-degree judgment has not been reached. I can't accuse you of something that was in 1971. Please, when we passed all the judicial laws two, three years ago, it was said – pro-European, international standards, based on these regulations, we received funds, instruments that we could arrange the judiciary to achieve maximum efficiency, so we almost banned an individual from being a party in the process, but must be represented by a lawyer, his Majesty. The case lasts 41 years, no first degree conviction yet. For a wonderful miracle, only the D.A. is alive. Did someone from the VSS take you to see what you were doing in this case when in 40 years, the judge didn't make a first-degree verdict? This is the subject of Dragan Obrenović from Nis. Thank God, the man's still alive. The subject is run by a lawyer who has a total age of 43. He started a career with that class and he's gonna end his career with that class. What Munjic says – 15 years and what Sreto says – 10, 15 years are trainees for Dragan Obrenović. Probably our judiciary thinks he's gonna be Noah, so he's gonna live 480 years. Epohalal changes, fantastic results, European standards. Anything rotten that was in the previous government can get rid of it. Here's the subject of "Merime" privatization. Criminal charges against judges. Crow crows don't take their eyes out. It's just one piece, exactly by the name of who's involved, privatisation without money. Here are your items from the European Court of Human Rights. I'm not giving it to you, I'm keeping it. Now we're coming to the field why we're going with the express distance, now we have this mandatory distance, it's not a college thing. We've got a third category, she's academic. You see, we used to have mandatory detention and university detention, and now we're with judges and prosecutors, since that category was kicked out of our criminal justice system, we've introduced a category, but not in the context of disciplinary responsibility, but a little stronger – mandatory and cultural distance from function. It's a disaster. That's funny. The people who were chosen were chosen as icons. Look, we here have people who function as members. I'm not going to say it again now, because it's not here. I've always said that Bosko Ristic can't be, he's in a permanent conflict of interest, as a lawyer. You see, in the Council of Justice is his friend Dejan Ciric and there is also the Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. He was elected by the colleges, Kiric chose the chamber, Boska chose most. You know for yourself, whatever he's got to deal with, it's dried up. Here's another piece of evidence. Then we had these chosen ones, where the people of the judiciary choose their own. We talked, there was a smile, elections, a candidate list, ballots, boxes, etc. You see how the judges in the election made a mistake. Judges, the most qualified lawyers, chose their colleagues to be members of the Council and made mistakes during the election. Why? There's been talk of this Blago Jaksic and that case in Mitrovica for a long time, but it wasn't interesting. Something happened, so that application came out of the drawer and it got interesting. I don't go in here when it's wrong. I respect the prejudgment of innocence. The presupunction of innocence, until the verdict is passed in a legally prescribed procedure, everyone is innocent. We're looking to see what the main motive was. We couldn't have found out two or three months ago about criminal charges, and the event was ten years ago. Here's an example. Why did our judicial authorities, which take care of prosecutors and judges, say, not take the video link, the Stanko Subotic Canet conference? All MPs got this. Nowhere in the media has been published. The second thing, the government's decision on the general interest fell, and the courts and the competent authorities do not apply the ruling of the administrative court. The judge says it's open – I don't care about that. We'll tear the hot dogs down if we have to. Have you heard from her? You're not. Why? There was supposed to be another event, it didn't happen. So it's a selective approach. You're looking for a change in these two laws to legalize your selective approach to the problem. In translation, what should be interpreted? It's not party interests. It's the interests of those bosses who made such a government. It's those forces from the tunnel, from the dark. I'm not accusing DS. What does DS have to do with the election? What does DS have to do with VSS? He wonders BIA, Miki Rakic, Sasa Vukadinovic, those who pay for the reform and those who want to protect their capital. If Bosko, Mika, Pera, Laza appears to them, I will now read to you: the judges chose Blago Jaksic as judge, born in 1957 in Kosovo Mitrovica, the Faculty of Law ended in Kragujevac in 1983, a judicial exam in 1986, and founded a working relationship at the Municipal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, and from 1992 to April 2002 he was the President of the Municipality Court in Mitrovica. Now they're going to step on that court, get those NATO guys in. If they break through that barricade in Kosovo, Mitrovica, on the bridge, the first location is the court. We recorded it all in advance, so we know what it's all about. Furthermore, he referred to the exercise of judicial office at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, acted in litigation cases from working relations, and was appointed in June 2008 for the head of the Labour Dispute Department until 31.12.2009. He was elected in 2006 as the best judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I didn't know you had a fashion runway, that the best judges in the courts were elected. He was the best! What are these others like? If he's the best, he ends up in jail, what do we do with the others? He said, during 2006 and 2007, he held lectures in the organisation of the Alliance of Independent Unions, and in the area of application of labour law regulations and in the organisation of the Peace Resolution Agency. What did he teach them? And what did he teach them? And Chume bought the university. What do they learn at this Chumet University? Since 1.1.2010, the judges have been serving several criminal courts in Belgrade. Judge Blagoja Jaksic had special duties in the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, authorized to act on complaints. That's why my complaints couldn't go through. Here's specifically, hello to Mr. Terza Celovic. He addressed the Priboj court: "I was a National MP from 11.6 to 14.10.2008, when my mandate ended on the basis of the activation of the blank resignation, which was established at the National Assembly session on 14 October 2008 at 12.00 hours, when I was in the Assembly Library, after which I was immediately declared a break to prevent me from disputing my resignation personally. The assembly found resignation on the basis of a report from the Administrative Committee, signed by Tomislav Nikolic." Handing over his blank resignation and his statement and immediately adopted, and the SRS cannot realise its resignations. The same legal situation, you give us lectures - give us resignations, and this guy boasts about how he lost them, how he stole them. It's been a criminal trial for three years. What are the judges doing? Not to tell you, I'm writing a book about what judges do. Stole money through the Bank of Intects, not basically in charge of the SRS. Where's the court case? We've come to repeat the procedure, and it's clear. It's your transformation, it's your reform. What is Mrs. Malovic with criminal charges against a large number of people for the Cypriot money, what is it? We want to hear that one of the candidates is involved with this, so we're going to activate him in some way, or we're going to change some laws again to get rid of someone who says, let's take that criminal report. As soon as he says we get a criminal report, we activate article 45 to get the job done. It's a transformation of our judiciary. What's the reason? This thing with Mr. Jaksic could have been completed without any changes to this law, but you're going to change, you're sending a message, you're sending a dangerous message. Who are you sending these messages to? What about the cases against Shaper and Gilas, what about the cases against Galenika? What are the judges doing? What about thousands and thousands of cases where people show up to courts and prosecutors as the last point of rebellion to bring about some justice and there they come across a closed door? What would a man do in Mionica whose execution was 11 years? The execution of 11 years, Ms. Malovic, the case is over, she was led for 20 years and came to the execution and 11 years were carried out. Every five years, the executive title is realized with about 2%, then the execution skills, so the judge says to strangers -- raise your hands from that, sit in the pub and agree on what you're harassing us. Of course, it comes from Valjev after you transformed it. In Valjev, the judge is a litigator, and in Mionica, when there is a judge's day, he comes as an executive. I don't want to talk about names anymore, names lose their meaning because this is a condition, a systemic problem. You can pull any name and name, the story will be the same. Are you aware of how criminalized Serbian society is to destroy all pores? Crime has started since the sanctions were imposed. Someone could only break the sanctions and become a successful man, with a favored attitude of national security and government, of course, and today it has continued, and today they are handling the state. You're after Beck, Zumbul wants to make him Prime Minister when he's the winner. Beko's gone to make sure his investment doesn't go away. Ask around who's got it in the building where Radomir Antic lives? Where'd the money come from? He didn't have a dog to bite him for. You gave security to everyone and everyone in this country, you know that? You no longer know which houses you provide here. For what? It's enough for everyone to say, "I'm a politician, I'm threatened, and I'm laid on a Styrofoam." Guys, what are you talking about? You're transforming the judiciary? Our judiciary hasn't been transformed in the right direction, it's transformed in the wrong direction. Why? Because the transformer was America, Sam Nazaro controlled it. Did you repay your debts to this High Court of Cassation building? You paid for it, I commend you for paying for it after three years, it's about time. Well, let me give you a little commendation. One hundred fifty companies wanted to go bankrupt for the state. Guys, it's not a joke. They had to run away, save themselves, work as much as they did, because there's no work here, no bread. That's where you ruined one of the businessmen who's your official's father-in-law, so you know. Come what these others are, but yours have begun. It's a system, the system's broken. It's not in the system of principles that apply, and as soon as it's done without principle, then anything is possible, then it's anarchy, then some other criteria apply. That you do not now declare us to be some ominous talker, etc., I am sure that all these regulations, not you, but Serbia needs all these regulations concerning the judiciary to change. Why? Serbia will never be a member of the EU and NATO Pact, it is clear to you, they do not want it, especially now that they are in their mild chaos. They want to disperse Serbia and as long as there are unbelievers who believe in the EU, they can unload Serbia. When the elections are won by the people now, not by the EU, but by fearing the EU and protecting their interests from the NATO Pact and the EU and establishing on these principles the unity of the people around vital national interests, we can protect ourselves. Very simple and simple. And that will be the intrinsic need of this people, to promote this completely because everything and everything is left in this justice system of ours. Everything and everything is left without me telling you what's come. Even people in the judiciary got sick of working in an existing way, believe me. Because they see that the connective tissue is falling apart, it's breaking up, it can't connect, and especially in these times of crisis, they're thinking about it. Some catch some of their strategic positions, they make the most of the mistakes. Why? The strategic position for the judge and the prosecutor should be the law, not if he knows this, whether he knows that. You know, Mrs. Malovic, it's awkward for someone to break your credibility by his father going and threatening to get a job unless you give me a job. Do you know who my son is? That's what home's family does. It's ruining our credibility, and you're gonna have to ask yourself a little bit about this job of yours. I'd like to give you some advice from Bosko Ristic, get him out of this. Get out, whatever he's caught on, it's dried up, you guys understand? Whatever caught up with the state community, you remember, aman people. Woe to him whom he defends. And how did he organize his office there and his buddies about that judiciary? Don't ask me your party questions. Ask. So, Mr. Jaksic is just a reason to tell the public that this judicial reform has failed. She's wrong. She's wrong. Why? Because at the heart of this reform, they were not the interests and objectives of the people and the state and our need to establish justice. We have needs, we as citizens have the need to finally bring justice to life in Serbia through courts, as the highest authority. That didn't happen. Why didn't it happen? Well, it can't be a copy-paisy reform. Replaying something that exists somewhere. It can live under appropriate socio-economic, moral and other conditions on which they would have to be here. The criminalization of society is maximum. It's not just the crime on the street. Our crime scene is in banks that do it with gloves. I joked with you a little bit, remember Mrs. Komic, when Ac Vlahovic comes in, I ask him always – Aco, how many days do you count for a hundred years? Here it comes. You can see for yourself. Thank you for your patience to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62550	This used the time available to the SRS parliamentary group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62551	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all those who debated today's debate at the head of the motion on amendments and additions to the Visa Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. I also understand the need for MPs to discuss these laws in judicial reform, given that these laws are inextricably related to the overall process of judicial reform, as I pointed out under judicial reform, because we had several phases. One phase of the general election is which I am deeply convinced that we will quickly end and this phase of at least the part concerning the discussion of complaints before the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. The second phase was the phase, the change in the process of work and the litigative and criminal and enforcement procedures, and you are aware that in this respected home of the previous months, we have discussed all the three laws whose application, I believe, will speed up the proceedings in Serbia's judiciary. Then, the stage of work organisation, changes in the organisation of work. It is a great pleasure for me to say that there is now a program for the automatic handling of the case and that any interested citizen can at any moment look at the movement of his case, meaning whether there is an answer to the complaint whether the art and other issues that matter with the procedure itself have been carried out. Under the reform of the judiciary, as I have repeatedly pointed out is an important and change of consciousness, I am deeply convinced that the laws we have passed, but also the people elected to the judicial system, who are professionally worthy will be able to respond to this task. Many things were said for judicial reform, some were true, some were not true. Of course, it's always a stronger voice of those incorrect information that many with a grill, some with a special interest, have brought it up. As justice minister and as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I've tried certain things to deny. On this occasion, I want to read what's in the annual report, actually in the European Commission's report on our candidacy. Also, at the very beginning, before I even go on to deliver this information, I want to point out that justice reform has not been implemented because of European integration, it may have been done in parallel with our path to the EU, it has been primarily done because of Serbian citizens and I am deeply convinced that in the coming months or days we will be able to look at its positive results. In fact, here's what's in the European Commission's report that even today is said to be critical, so you can judge whether or not it is. The real institutional framework for the rule of law for Serbia, including the fight against corruption and organised crime, has been improved, especially after significant judicial reform. By setting up the Anti-Corruption Agency, by stepping up international co-operation on criminal matters. This led to the first results, the main challenges remain in the area of justice, the fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime. In particular, it remains to build a proactive approach in the fight against corruption that would lead to a reliable return of ongoing investigations and judicial rulings. A comprehensive framework for civilian security forces control has been established. Significant judicial reforms in Serbia were undertaken after the adoption of the national strategy in 2006 and activities were intensified during 2009 and 2010. Independence and self-governance have been strengthened by the formation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, who have been working in constant composition since April 2011. The general selection of all judges and prosecutors was conducted in December 2009 with a special goal of improving their professionality and integrity. Initial significant shortcomings observed in this process are currently subject to the review process for which clear instructions exist. The review procedure remains to be satisfactorily completed in a transparent manner in accordance with these instructions. Many steps have been taken to improve the efficiency of the judiciary, the courts' networks have been restructured and the total number of courts has been reduced, resulting in a better division of jobs. The administrative court was established and the law on enforcement and security adopted in May 2011. Further efforts are needed to improve judicial work in order to take advantage of all the potentials of the restructured network of courts and finally increase public confidence. Further efforts should be made to improve the execution of the verdict and further reduce the significant gap in the resolution of the cases under way. Not to read any further, I think this is enough. When a lie is told more than once, it simply becomes the truth. No, I didn't tell you at all, I'm talking about certain allegations that have appeared in the media and I understand why you're taking allegations from the media, because simply, they're considered relevant and what appears in the public should be true. And as I said and when you deny it, sometimes your voice is not strong enough, but remains what was first said. It was also said that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors used information from the BIA. Well, here and now, this example that you've repeatedly instructed today, an example of members of the High Council of the Judiciary for which a criminal trial has been initiated, is currently talking about it. If there were even data used, I believe that such a person would not be, or such persons would not be elected judges, let alone for members of the High Council of the judiciary. It is also said that this person has the most complaints adopted, I know that it is expressed by the professional association, and it should be true, but it is simply not true and you can see for yourself by taking into account the number of objections on the website of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, so by simply calculating which of the members of the High Council of the judiciary has the largest number of complaints adopted, if that is the case, since the objections are adopted at the session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and it is necessary for the majority of the members to vote. I agree that the situation is not ideal and it could not be brought to this ideal after a year and 10 months since the reform started. I agree that it is inadmissible for the proceedings to last 40 years, that several generations of one family are conducting a procedure and that we fully agree and believe that our goal and interest in this is no longer to come. I believe we've built a good base in it. I also agree that even the execution procedure cannot last 11 years and that often the legal texts have agreed to this. Here, you yourself stated that there were several craftsmanships in that case. When we had a debate about the law on enforcement and security, we had just abolished such opportunities that an artificial practice could be used. The reform of the judiciary is not and cannot be of interest to any government, to any political party. It should be the interest of all actors in society. I believe that at one point, now or somewhere in the future, we will meet at that common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-26-0.u62552	Is there another one of those who haven't used their rights under Article 96? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reporting for word? If so, please sign in. If not, I'm concluding a joint principle search. This concludes work for today. We continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. on a joint search of the following items on the agenda, at which the agenda points are from 18 to 22. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, all I want to do is tell you tomorrow's work plan. During tomorrow's afternoon session, the Assembly would conduct a joint review on points 18 to 22 and after the search was completed, and at 4:00 p.m., since tomorrow is the last Thursday of the month, it is time to ask the government a question that will be from 16:00 to 1900 hours. If the debate scheduled for work tomorrow, therefore, the joint principle from 18 to 22 points is not completed by 15.00 hours, then we will be given a break, and we will continue next week. Tomorrow at 3:00 p.m., we finish our work. If we finish early, the break will be early, as the Rules of Procedure obliges us to ask parliamentary questions at 4:00 p.m. If we finish by 15.00 hours, then it'll be an hour's break, if not, a break will be set, and we'll continue on Tuesday. Friday and Monday are not business days, and with great regret we have not been able to respect it every time, but we will work hard throughout the regular session to be, as the Rules of Procedure said, for other obligations of the MPs, rather than for attending meetings during the regular session, or session of the National Assembly. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine whether there are any rules of procedure. Here you go. I find that 85 MPs are present in the electronic system and another number of MPs are present at the National Assembly Hall, so that there are the Rules of Procedure established conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the National Assembly that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 at the session of the National Assembly, orally, in a five-minute address Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who wish to exercise their right under Article 286 to apply to the electronic system. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
