ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u59998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed this amendment concerning Article 113. The proposal for a law in paragraph 1 provides for a process body, will determine the skill when certain relevant facts need expertise to be determined, in point 2. artificiality cannot be determined in order to determine or assess the legal issues to be decided in the procedure. I will return to the amendment, we suggest that this attitude be changed as much as skill would be determined when, in order to determine or assess some important facts, the findings and opinions of the person who has the necessary expertise should be obtained. This is a more complete definition and a more complete norm. I don't know why the government doesn't accept it because it's where and where it's more effective than proposed. What is being added to the skills of the next member, which is that unless there are experts in Serbia that the body of procedure can also hire foreign experts. The Serbian Radical Party believes Serbia has a sufficient number of experts in all areas and that this has proved to be good and effective in our traditional court practice. Second, there's no reciprocity. When we don't have the reciprocity that our warlocks, foreign warlocks in another country, we don't have a legal basis to let our foreigners witch our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u59999	Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 115 and 115 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60000	Article 115 of the Law refers to the duty of skill, as you have said. However, skill represents one shop. Who's doing that shop? It's an entity of law. Who's the real subject? An expert. It's natural, logical and linguistic to say the duty of an expert, not a duty of skill. The entity has rights and obligations, has duties. There is no right, no obligation, no duty. Your response is inappropriate, which you have given me on this amendment, and it is incomprehensible why you do not accept it because it is both more logically correct and more linguistically correct and, let me say, it fits the spirit of legal norm. On the other hand, I asked for the number 2 "300,000" to be replaced with the number "500,000", and for the 3rd number "500,000" to be replaced by "1,000,000" dinar. What do we suggest an increase for? It's because it's got witches in it. A fine unless a court order is respected, and if an expert is placed by his own will on the list of artists, it is natural and normal that it is a duty to perform a court order. Unless he wants to be a warlock, he needs to get off that list and make it possible to make it far more orderly, safer, and celery. What is important to emphasize and what is practice is that we have a different practice in determining the fees for the work of the artists and the legal nature of the art, i.e. the fees for art. Can you do that without a public tender, without a competition? Why? Because it's very serious skills where there are high fees. If, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the company and some other legal entities, they have to carry out certain public procurement procedures for small or large purchases and it is natural and natural that this is also the case, as it is the fees that millions of dinars, millions of euros and that legal possibility. Here we have allowed a legal void that will be misused, abused and which can cause certain damage and consequences to society's interests. Mrs. Malovic, I warn you of this legal void. The first question is whether a cash amount can be paid in million artificial amounts without carrying out a certain kind of tender for collecting artificial offers. If this is a legal obligation, and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, then we also need to carry out a certain procedure in this case. What's most harmful is the art in financial terms. We have at the Privatisation Agency, on one issue the SRS asked, how much money was paid for the art of determining the value of capital in the privatisation process, we received data that four billion dinars were paid to experts for financial skills, consulting services and other types of financial services, which corresponds to the amount of 60m euros. Is there control there? It doesn't exist. It's simple, Kumovski, tossing in a consulting firm, allowing it to take as much funds as it writes. Is that where we have control? Is the state in control here? There isn't. If we connect this now from 2001 to 2011, according to some estimates of the SRS, about five billion and 70m euros were paid for artificially. Absurd is the greatest. We have in practice that in the company we have dozens of economists, experts who can do these skills perhaps best, because they know best the value of their capital, the value of the company. We trust it to someone else, we give huge funds, and that's how we make crime. In all this, you participate, you are aware of these facts, and do nothing to remove it. We've been giving orders and asking you to take care of these fees. Someone's going to recalculate, someone's going to look for an analysis of all of this, and then you're going to see what capital has been drained from the budget, or from the privatisation revenue into that consulting house. There is also CES Mekon from the prime minister with about seven or eightm euros. Who's taking care of that? Nobody. It's harmful, and there's a crime behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60001	It was used three minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment to Article 115. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60002	This amendment refers to the duty of skill. In fact, the billmaker did not set a time limit within which the artist could give, or must give his findings and opinions. We thought we should intervene here, by setting certain deadlines and limiting the expert to a 30-day deadline. He is obliged to give his findings and opinions within 30 days, and only for justified reasons unless he is able to do so, to extend his time limit by 30 days. Simply, we know how many of these undefined solutions can, in practice, lead to a delay in court proceedings, and we believe that it is much more harmless to react to such provisions, in order to limit them, to take certain procedural actions for a period of time than to speed up the procedure so that certain rights of the accused are violated. I don't think that's supposed to be the aim of the legislator of this law. That's why I think this amendment has gone too far and needs to be considered. Examples of speed up the process, and at the expense of the defendant's rights, are best seen in delivery. It's just one example. If a person who is required to deliver it in writing within a specified time limit is not at the address where the delivery is to be made, we have seen from the proposal of this law that it is delivered in writing to a full-time person, a household member, and then can then be delivered to a neighbor, a president of a home council, a porter, etc. So, we know from the practice that if this person receives this call, or receives it in writing and does not hand it to the defendant himself, from that moment on, the defendant starts to have some procedural repercusion, because there is a possibility that he might be in an extremely poor procedural legal situation, and all for speeding up the process. To avoid such situations, it would be much better to intervene in such harmless provisions, to time-limit law, or the duty of an expert in which he can give his findings and opinions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60003	The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60004	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the art and the part relating to this draft law on art, was certainly the subject of the extraordinary attention of the working group and I fully agree with the provisions of this amendment to limit the skill. What we had was a dilemma, is whether it can be limited to extremely complex skills, when it's necessary to artificialize some institution outside our country. In our case-law, we have had the situation that Wisbaden has skilled in the procedure for the assassination of former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic or when we have had the art of the FBI, but I certainly believe that this amendment should be accepted, because it primarily refers to inside the country's art and by authorised institutions or authorised judicial skills within the country, so on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60005	I find that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment, given that the government and committees have not responded positively, the National Assembly will decide on the amendment of the MPs in the voting day. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 116 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal from the CAP, about 175 amendments have been tabled and it's really symptomatic that the government is, and here is now the controversial Madam Minister who adopted all seven or eight amendments. That means that the government isn't actually ready for dialogue when it comes to these amendments, for the simple reason that this is one of the laws with so-called. European agendas and you will adopt what the EU has drawn for you, and you don't care what the EU is doing today along with the Shiptar terrorists at KIM. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments, but unfortunately, our MPs, many are not in a position today to defend the amendments, because 40 of our MPs from the republic and the province parliament are today with Serbs in KIM. The amendment to Article 116, which is submitted and refers to the caucus title above Article 116 where you wrote "an exemption from the duty of skill". You're saying it's more appropriate and precise than our amendment that says it's supposed to be "the exception of an expert". You know, an exemption from the duty of skill would actually mean an exception that someone can be an expert at all, that they can accept the duty of skill at all. We've specified the specific exception of the expert in the way you predicted in a specific criminal case. It's not clear to us that you can't accept this explanation and really who's thinking, now that we say exemption from the duty of skill and the exception of an artist, the difference is drastic. You already have an expert who's on the duties of an expert and in the duty of skill, and then the list determines the expert who will be the expert, and then the party has the right to seek the exception of that expert. By the way, skill in itself is extremely important. You know how many criminal cases have been convicted, and that's how it's going to be in the future because of the lack of any other evidence where it was crucially greater than any other expert. That is why, compared to the amendment that counterpart Jojic spoke of earlier, he was indeed insulting experts in the Republic of Serbia to predict that skills can also be performed by some foreign warlocks. We really don't understand why you're doing this. Mrs. Malovic, you mentioned the third bullet art at Zoran Djindjic's earlier. And today, regardless of the judicial verdict, it remains unclear. You know, you had foreign witches, you had our witches. No matter what Nata Mesarovic said at the time - we received a verdict, instead - we reached a verdict, the rest was unclear and unclear because you wanted to involve someone who would help you politically finish what your goal was. You must take seriously the role of an expert, not just an expert, because what you said in the principle debate, that this law will achieve a more efficient and faster trial, believe me, you won't. How are you going to avoid corrupt witches? You know, as far as it's concerned, you'll agree with that for sure, that based on the findings and the expert's opinion, because he got the money, someone could go to jail for 20, 30 or 40 years. Allow me, that shouldn't be the purpose of this code we're discussing today. I really think you should accept this amendment if you want this to be legally legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60007	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60008	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable Serbian citizens, since the second day we are discussing this law, the amendments in particular, it is time to look again at those citizens who have not followed our discussions in principle. So it's about the Code of Criminal Procedure. As an authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and on behalf of New Serbia, we will point out great dissatisfaction because a prosecutor's investigation is being introduced into our judicial system. There are more reasons why we're unhappy. I won't repeat myself, but once again for those citizens who have no intention of following, I think it will be easier for them to follow these discussions through the amendments, I will point out that this is the way a prosecutor's investigation is conducted in criminal proceedings is very dangerous for our judicial system. I think the citizens of Serbia who have had the opportunity to read one text from Saturday of one of the most competent people in this country, Professor of the Law School in Belgrade, Dr Milan Shkulic, will see from his text what is wrong and in that text himself says he is no longer convinced that our public prosecutors can be completely immune to the influence of the executive authority. The application of the new CAP is scheduled to begin as of 15 January 2012, but only for organised crime crimes. There is now a small change, as the government has accepted that the deadline should be changed in relation to other crimes, and that all other crimes have been applied since 1 September, i.e. it will now be 15 January 2013 and so there will be two different categories of defendants in the same country with the application of two laws at the same time of the current and future law. It may occur that the proceedings begin for organised crime, and that it is later found to be ordinary crime, when an investigation would be initiated by a public prosecutor, and later the case would be brought to the investigating judge, without being able to use evidence collected by the prosecutor. The new code introduces a prosecutor's investigation, and the old one that will be valid for another year, in this case for a year and a half, only a judicial investigation is known for ordinary crime. So we're going to have one period of a year and a half very problematic. At the end of that text, Milan Skulic also says this, that no one in the EU has asked for a change in the procedural law, but our reformers have, alone, put it into their reform agenda, and in doing so, their European negotiators believe that our main problem is in poor procedural laws, which is not true. I responsibly argue that the new criminal code will not contribute more effectively to criminal proceedings, says law professor, a professor of criminal law. Now, when we return to these amendments in particular, to Article 118 paragraph 1 point 5) to say: "to the authority of the procedure" the point and the commas are deleted and the words are added: "that is to the authority where samples, traces and suspicious substances are kept during the duration of the procedure". All the time our discussions here have been overcome by the discussion that the problem of proving the material truth is when we bring the prosecutor into the investigation, whether he will be biased, or unbiased, whether he who submits practically the indictment and who later investigates, all the material evidence that is favourable to the defendant will want to collect. It is this one amendment that we want in some way in this segment, in this article, to prevent one possibility for the investigative judge, or the prosecutor, to possibly even perform some manipulations. The explanation of this amendment, I do not see the reason, is said here in the government's explanation – the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the decision in the bill clearly points to the authority's jurisdiction of the procedure, as well as its obligation to take care of samples, traces and suspicious substances. So, what do we propose with this amendment? Here, Madam Minister, please concentrate again, there is absolutely room for this amendment to be accepted. Therefore, in Article 118 paragraph 1 point 5) following the words "indicating the authority to the procedure", it is amended as follows: "that is to the authority where samples, traces and suspicious substances are kept during the duration of the procedure". This is quite precise, the argument - given the meaning of the concept, the body of the procedure referred to in Article 2 point 15) of the Code clearly states that there are samples, traces and suspicious substances which are not kept, i.e. by nature things cannot be kept in the court, public prosecutor or other state body before which the proceedings are conducted. For example, psychoactive substances, explosives, certain types of firearms, samples, which are stored in special conditions for the needs of biological skill and the like, with this amendment we propose precise rules on skill in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60009	Four minutes spent from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60010	I've also been thinking about this article for a long time, and I don't think that really the body that runs the procedure will often have the necessary technical conditions, laboratory conditions or any other conditions to preserve all evidence that is relevant, patterns, traces and suspicious materials that are needed as evidence for further conduct of the procedure. So maybe for that, I should say, the practical reason, of course, that the body that runs the procedure that all those causes, traces and suspicious substances that it can store with it will certainly not be kept with it, but often it won't be possible, so it's impossible to keep toxic substances or explosives or weapons or a lot of biological traces, etc. Of course, just in the shortest time, since there's been a lot of talk about art here, I don't know about proposals to launch an expert tender, the Court's Law on Court Witches is very clear, and the court is obliged to appoint an expert on the list of skills. It was my amendment to the bill of art, so the tenders here are completely nonsense. It is certain that management authorities will make sure that, for the purposes of the skills of a company, they also choose a qualified body of art and a body of expertise that will well and professionally finish the work of art, but also be the price decent. As far as abroad art is concerned, or the involvement of foreign artists, of course, that the court will dominantly engage domestic artists, but only in cases where there are no warlocks for a particular profile. Then we'll hire strangers. That's not a big number of cases, but it happens in practice, and it's not the court's obligation to hire foreign experts, in conditions where we have our experts. But if such a situation arises, it is certain that it will be a very valuable aid from foreign witches. We do not need in conditions where there is a great flow of knowledge, capital, ideas, etc., between the EU member states above all, to be a hermetically closed country, to swear only on our experts, and then in another sentence to say that our experts are largely corrupt, which is certain.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60011	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60012	Madam Minister, amendment intervention to article 119. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the swearing of an expert. To remind you, an expert is a means of proof, together with the items, because the means of proof can be objects and faces and always, by the rule, is a person of art, despite the fact that in some more complicated cases, an institution or institution that can give an expert opinion is involved, always a natural person, and therefore it is possible for a natural person to take an oath. We assume, given that the expert has very often played a significant role in the decision-making process, because the influence of the experts on the outcome of the proceedings can be decisive, in a number of cases the court is not realistically able to critically assess the findings and opinions of the experts. In order to strengthen that responsibility, although the very fact that someone as an expert is called before the court to give some findings and opinions, I should draw his attention to his responsibility and that the degree of responsibility should be extremely pronounced. In order to strengthen that responsibility a little bit, we find it entirely justified to accept the institution of an expert's oath. We just wanted to step up that instead of – I swear, we say that we swear, because in front of someone, the expert would swear to the judge, or to the council. I would also like to remind the President of his oath, because at the time of his entry into office of the President of the Republic, he took an oath to preserve the integrity of this country. I'm not going to bring up any insinuations now whether or not he's guarding it, but we demand that his role, which is defined by the Constitution, be much more responsible. We have no illusion that every oath will lead to respect for that principle. It has only a role and task to strengthen the moral responsibility or moral dimension of that oath. We're witnesses that some people who took an oath in church didn't stick to it, but I still have to say it's an exception. Most people are patriots, honorable people, defending their country, country, family, their people. The exception is those who break the church's oath and do not abide by it, one or two who can now cite are Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. But we're not burdened by individual cases. We want to stress the role of the oath, the expert, and I think that, Madam Minister, you might be able to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60013	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Before we continue our work, two notices based on Article 90. A report has been submitted to the Assembly, i.e. the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law on litigation, so that we will open the search in particular after a break has been made. The LDP parliamentary group in the course of the session will be represented as the authorised representative of MP Ivan Andric. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60014	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the amendments we have submitted to Article 122(1) are concerned, it is only a deadline that should be longer than 24 hours. We suggest that that deadline be extended to 72 hours. Why? So that the accused and accused and the suspect and his defender, if they get such a solution, could file a complaint within a reasonable period of time. If they get a solution on Friday, and we have a weekend, it's not Saturday and Sunday, in which case they may miss out and have adverse consequences. I would also like to point out, Mr. Cosic, in Articles 140, 141 and 142, where it is anticipated to take biometric samples from the suspect or accused, there is a very delicate question. I point out that if you got it, I think you should have, the opinion of those experts Mr Krasic spoke of yesterday, that England had a big problem taking these samples from the defendant and that the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of Marper v. Great Britain and that in that case, the UK lost the dispute and paid great damage. If there are these uncontrollable and without the consent of the accused taking these samples, which is a very sensitive question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60015	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 124, by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60016	This is about one heads-up. Our proposal is that the title above Article 124 is changed and it reads: "Failures in find and opinion of the expert and re-artifice". The reason for the government's refusal to refuse the amendment, he said, is that the lack of the findings and opinion of the arts and the re-art, the government says, does not accept the amendment for reasons why the bill's solution is sufficiently precise. I could understand that it's more accurate than this, I could understand, but "accurate enough" doesn't mean that what we've submitted isn't accurate. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60017	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 124. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60018	In Article 124, after Article 2, we submitted an amendment to add a new position, which reads: "the skill will be repeated in the event that after a written report and opinions given, and before the hearings at the main search, the expert dies, mentally ill or cannot be found, or his arrival before the court is impossible, or significantly difficult because of age, illness or other important reasons, and his hearing for the purposes of the proceedings is not possible by video conference. Exceptionally, if the parties do not request a hearing of the experts at the main search, the written report and the opinion of the expert who has been prevented from appearing for those reasons before the court will be read in the main search." The reasoned solution proposed by this amendment fills a huge legal gap currently existing in Article 406(1) of the current CAP. So in one stupid sentence, the government says -- it doesn't accept the amendment, because the solution is from Article 124. The bill's proposal is precise enough. You keep using it when you refuse the amendment to be precise enough. I am responsible for saying that what New Serbia has proposed with this amendment is not precise enough, but absolutely accurate and will help in many ways in the application of this CAP. Your proposal, which you made very often, can lead the judge himself into a total delusion. So I suggest you use this amendment to add one whole point of view. Believe that in many ways they will fix this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60019	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 125 and Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 126 and 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60020	I thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cosic, on behalf of the SNS, we have suggested that article 1 of Article 133 be changed and read – the authority of the procedure can determine when it is necessary to identify or clarify some of the facts in the process. For the sake of the public, let me remind you what the proposal is. Article 1 of the said Article – see to it where a direct observation of the authority of the procedure is necessary to establish or clarify some of the facts in the procedure. This is an incredibly formalized sentence. By the way, I tried to explain these informal sentences to you yesterday. There are a lot of them in this bill. For all of this, I think the clarifications in Section 1 and the fact is that the proposed attitude 1 cannot determine what is most important, which is who is authorized to order insight as the most important evidence store, which is otherwise irreplaceable in proving some of the crimes to any other evidence. The adoption of this amendment would indeed specify the proposed text of the Code Proposal, Article 133(1). I hope so, and you are probably informed, during yesterday the Constitutional Court held its 32 regular sessions in which it decided on 82 cases. In view of that fact, we often draw attention to these parts, or provisions of the laws that you suggest are unconstitutional. At yesterday's session, the Constitutional Court concluded, and on our proposal of 22 June, or the initiative to examine the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities, it concluded that within the meaning of Article 33. The law on the Constitutional Court, the initiative to initiate the procedure for establishing non-constitution and disagreement with the approved international contract, the provisions of Article 11(1) and (3) of Article 27(5), Article 28, Article 35(1), Article 35(4) and (5), Article 39(1) and Articles 42 and 43. The Law on the financing of political activities shall deliver to the National Assembly an opinion. Also, since we have already taken over the Constitutional Court's activities, the Constitutional Court decided at one of the previous sessions at a regular 30-session session on 104 cases. He initiated a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the government's conclusions 05. 120-4978/10 of 6 July 2010, which established the extended duration of salary compensation rights for judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, reached under the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, a circle of persons and other conditions for the exercise, i.e. the termination of that right, and assessed that the issue of agreement reached with the Constitution and the Law was raised. So much for some of the provisions of the bill that your ministry has come to the Assembly. In a situation where, regardless of where the amendments come from and from which parliamentary groups, there is a need for a little more understanding, that there is no such situation in the future. That's why we're distracting you about this member. There's no reason not to accept it. What you have stated is to be understood, and yesterday I told you, that what is meant in Serbian terms of Serbian language, must stand for later use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60021	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 134 and 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 135 and Article 135 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to the title above Article 136. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 137th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60022	Article 156. The bill speaks of conjecture assumptions for the search. Just to remind you that the crime is considered a crime that was prescribed by law as a crime at the time of execution. If so, then the procedure conducted or the detection of a criminal offence must require clearly established and prescribed procedures. For the sake of reminding the right to apartment and tenancy, it's injureable, but in exceptional cases you can give it up. The order for that should be given by the court. Here in Article 156, in paragraphs 5 and 6 we have submitted certain interventions. If it is the need to search a military facility or military facility in order to reach the perpetrator of a criminal offence or to reveal some other significant indicators that may lead to a criminal offence, or some of the objects that have been committed, a search may be carried out, but it is said – if a competent representative of that body or institution is called. If he doesn't arrive within three hours, then without his presence, he will conduct a search. We think it should be erased. Is it a three-hour period, where a representative of that institution or institution is required to arrive, so he hasn't come, is that something that is necessary to be respected within three hours? I think there are other ways to bring in a person who should represent a given institution and be present, not to be searched without the presence of that person. In the position of the 6th of this proposal, Article 156 is foreseen – if there is a need to search the lawyer's office, that the Bar Association will authorise a lawyer who is also required to respond within three hours. If they do not respond within three hours, then without the presence of the person proposed by the bar, a search will be carried out. We don't think that's supposed to stand. There are other ways in which this lawyer, appointed by the Bar Association, can be brought to the scene and in the presence of that authorised lawyer, a search of the attorney's office is carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60023	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment, Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment because, as Mr. Peric said, the whole area is to prevent abuse by officials. Interestingly, Mr. Cosic, that you have not called in any law to any member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or to a universal declaration of human rights, or the Convention on Human Rights, which we are referring to, Article 6. European Convention on Human Rights, because of Article 40. The constitution defines the inviolability of the apartment and it must be incorporated into this law. Any case that the defendant, or accused, does not know at all what his rights are during the criminal investigation. It's really amazing to me that you've given an explanation for not accepting this amendment such an explanation. You're saying it's unclear the purpose of over-signing the person of the holder of the apartment. How is that unclear to you? That's where the abuse is prevented, because if the tenant isn't present, then you need to provide a video of that search and thus prevent abuse in the case itself. There have been cases, you may not know about it, but the judges themselves falsified the record during the investigation of the defendant. The case was held by lawyer Besaric Jovo from Belgrade, who was amazed that when a verdict was reached, which was signed by the defendant during a search of his apartment, it had absolutely nothing to do with what happened to the subsequent counterfeit. It is a very interesting question for the public of Serbia today – where are your certified records from the search of the house in Schiller, where were the members of the Zemun clan, and where are the video tapes, which were, of course, destroyed? As Radeta's colleague said, Nata Mesarevic said she got the verdict, so she didn't bring it on the basis of valid evidence and based on what was really there. We've asked you that question many times, because they just saw these tapes absolutely proof of who had contact with them and who was coming to Schiller's street. Of course, this evidence has been destroyed and therefore it is necessary to accept, because of this and because of many other examples, this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60025	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 162 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60026	I'm sorry Mrs. Secretary isn't here, but she might be able to react to this. In particular, Article 162 treats the conditions under which specific actions which may be designated for certain criminal offences will be carried out when a specific technique of carrying out evidence is required. One group includes acts intended to be handled by the Public Prosecutor's Office of Special Jurisdiction, and then the other, remaining criminal acts for which the collection of evidence can be authorised by special technique. One of those crimes, you said here, is abuse of official office, that's Article 359. Criminal code, special part of the Criminal Code. We have kindly asked you with this amendment to remove the abuse of your official position from the procedural code. First of all, it is because it is to be removed from a special section of the Criminal Code. It's an act that, not only is the pleonism of other criminal acts that are prescribed, such as taking and giving bribes, various types of theft, tax evasion, counterfeiting and similar acts, but it's one such rubber norm, through which you can find incrimination for almost any person for which the authorities and the court and the prosecutor can think of it as possible. It is a time of socialism, communism and social property, it should be abolished, and let alone in the Criminal Code, the procedural criminal code lays down a provision for it to be subject to special rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60027	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 167 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60028	As regards this amendment and the provisions relating to and referring to criminal offences in respect of which specific evidence actions are applied, as prescribed in Article 162, this article, this title and the number of criminal acts to be prescribed here, for which a certain measure can be determined, for listening is indeed too much, too much, too much, yet the promoter has not put in for the crime of stealing a hen. This is awesome. This is unacceptable. Why? Take the Code of Criminal Procedure from earlier years and the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. The current law does not foresee nearly 40 crimes for which citizens can be threatened by their right, their security, fundamental human rights, the opposite, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and guaranteed, above all, by international documents. This is too much, if we have a situation that the authorities will be able to determine the listening rate in almost 40 criminal acts. So, for stealing chickens and stealing bicycles, count on someone to determine listening. Second, there will be severe abuses. I believe the police, I trust the prosecution, I believe and the court, that they will take certain measures to collect evidence, but that they can be extended ten times from 30 days to 30 days to another 30 days, to 30 days. Thus, these measures are determined and applied indefinitely, that it will be very difficult and that fundamental human rights, which are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will be threatened by international documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60029	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60030	The bill provides for electronic data search to last for a maximum of three months, with an exceptional extension of up to two months. The SRS finds this absolutely inappropriate. We live in an era of electronic communications and this kind of deadline, so long to predict a computer search is an obvious intention to delay procedures. Imagine how much you can, as you would say, walk through the paper, how many documents you can and how much data you can search in three plus two months. That's a huge amount. Imagine how fast this can be done if a computer search is used. That's why we suggested that it be 30 days. You say you don't accept it because your proposal is more comprehensive and also time-limited. Excuse me, isn't 30 days limited? It's just a much shorter deadline than anticipated in this bill. You're witnessing how much data can only be searched by one click, say, on the WikiLeaks site. How many seconds does it take you, not a minute, let alone days and months, to find out that Tomislav Nikolic bought a diploma, to finance him by Miskovic and Beko, that he is functionally incompetent, that Miki Rakic was assigned by Boris Tadic to encourage Nikolic and Vukic to secede from the SRS etc? So you have to take care of the time we live in. This amendment should absolutely be accepted. Also, Mrs Malovic is not here, yesterday, or two days ago when she spoke about this law, claimed that this law would also apply on AP KiM territory. A notice for her and, above all, for Serbian citizens that a delegation of more than 100 MPs and members of the SRS failed to cross the Jarinje administrative line, because it was stopped by KFOR and under full equipment, with the inscription "Stop, or we will shoot". This is your condition today at the part of the Republic of Serbia in the AP KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60031	Forty-five seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Subsection E and Articles 183, 184, 185, 186 and 187 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60032	When it comes to this section of articles 183, 184, 185, 186 and 187 of our criminal-processing legislation, we are introducing the institute of an undercover investigator. It is a manipulator who will serve everyone and everything to justify his existence and receive wages. The undercover investigator was scheduled for several crimes, and is now predicted for nearly 40 crimes, that he may be within the meaning of Article 161's provisions that he may be designated, or as an institution engaged. So the possibility of hiring an undercover investigator has been expanded. But to make the matter ugly, respected citizens, respected MPs, the problem is that this undercover investigator can commit a number of crimes for false testimony, or to provide false evidence without being held accountable. Where's the penalty that he can be convicted of a felony if he has manipulated him and provided false evidence to the competent state authorities? This is pointless, this is very dangerous, and if you have in mind that almost 40 crimes in large numbers are predicted, he can work and burn and burn. Remember the citizens of Serbia and the Members of Parliament, don't be fooled. There will be a number of undercover investigators behind your heels, and you are unaware of the consequences that an undercover investigator can cause in the exercise of basic human rights. The SRS is an undercover investigator against the institute, because in the traditional court and judicial tradition it is not written, nor exists, the Institute's undercover investigator. It was an era of communism and Stalinism, when Gilas said - it was good UDBA, but it's not bad or militia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60033	Twenty-five seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60034	Article 191 defines certain measures. Under these measures, an appeal is defined in criminal proceedings, and the proposer in paragraph 1 says that the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings is ensured by his invitation. The defendant's call is made by a public prosecutor, or by a court of law. From the SRS aspect, from the aspect of interpreting the provisions of the Constitution relating to the judicial system, and in the framework of the judicial system, the position and role of the public prosecutor, in relation to the traditional Serbian criminal-processing law, the public prosecutor's participation in certain actions, among other things, this action, calls for action. That's why, and I in this amendment, I'm asking for an expropriation of a provision that defines the possibility of calling the defendant by a public prosecutor. What's the big deal here? What matters is what a public prosecutor doesn't do, what he's invited to do, what he's getting paid for. I will point here to the aspect of various reports filed by the Republika Srpska government, among other things, by numerous Krajisniks, and related to crimes against Serbs in RSK and the Republic of Croatia. It is known that our prosecution and our judicial authorities have only 40 proceedings against persons who have committed crimes in the territory of the RSK and the Republic of Croatia. It's interesting to mention, 39 is Serbs and one is Croat. What is this country doing to determine crimes and genocide against RSK Serbs? Nothing. What are they going to do after the innovation of these provisions on criminal proceedings? Nothing again, because there is a policy behind this that does not allow the attorney general and the state prosecutors who are obliged to establish and process all that is defined by international law, including positive law in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, Croats have 1.549 procedures against Serbs. How many Croats are there? We said only one. Is that the proportion of crime? It's not. Who's responsible for this? This authority is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60035	Thirty seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 193 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 195. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 204 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 205 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to Article 211 of the amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60036	This is about the reasons for determining detention. The reasons for determining detention in the modern legal system, in modern society, can exclusively be focused on procedural reasons, can be caused by procedural objectives, and no reason for prejudication to prejudge the punishment for the perpetrator of a criminal offence or to condemn him in advance without judicial conviction. This seems to be the law, because you are reviving a socialist model of detention, which should not exist in a modern democratic society. Making the difference between a threatened prison sentence, regardless of the other conditions for determining detention, is really embarrassing. What difference does it make that a 20 - year prison sentence is being threatened by someone for a criminal offence, which is being put on the line when it's being used as a reason, it can only serve you as a reason for determining detention. That's total nonsense. The detention is determined if anyone wants to escape, I speak lay, if someone wants to destroy evidence of a crime, threatens to repeat the crime, there is that danger, etc. Those are the reasons for determining the detention. Why would someone be ordered in custody just because, say, a 10-year prison sentence was threatened? One more thing, here you're saying that detention can be determined, and when a first-degree conviction is so that a person is convicted of imprisonment, beware, the verdict is not legal yet, and the consequences of the crime have led to public harassment. What black public harassment? You're going back to the '70s. Happy New 1970, Mr. Cossic, since Mrs. Minister is not here. You know who creates this public harassment story? The media. How can a different public get upset than that? If there's a need to protect the person who's being charged with a crime because of the work that's being put on his mind, it's done differently, you're not putting him in jail, you're putting him in jail, you're doing it the other way. So this is one retrograde norm, a perverse norm, for which I am ashamed to belong to a country that has such a norm and which you predict in 2011. You should be ashamed of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60037	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60038	I will join my colleague Aligrudic in explaining this amendment, as this is truly amazing how the government of the Republic of Serbia is prepared to allow such provisions in the future to violate human rights. The whole story about security of presence in criminal proceedings has been brought here to absurdity. The detention as an exceptional measure – here should be seen together with the guarantee, where there is an increased possibility of ensuring presence through the guarantee but not within the framework of the detention, so that the court will be able to make some persons who appear to him likable or if there are corrupt actions, we must also consider that possibility, to grant him rather than detention. There's an unlimited possibility of facial arrest here. So Article 4 is given an unlimited possibility. Therefore, you are now creating an atmosphere that the court can simply have so much freedom to ensure the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, using guarantee institutes and detention institutes in a way entirely arbitrary. You're based on the widest possible interpretations, such as public harassment. Who appreciates the public's harassment? Do you know what kind of legal standard this is? A colleague Aligrudić said – rubber standard. This is not a rubber standard, this is the fastest possible, because whatever the court thinks can treat as a public disturbance. There's no limit. From an exceptional measure of security of the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, you give the opportunity to detain everyone and everyone. This doesn't exist in any legislation. I don't see what motivated you to bring this in, except maybe the possibility that people who don't seem politically acceptable to you, to arrest them, to hold them in custody for months and to say that the public is upset enough. Someone will sit in custody by decision of the state authorities, and at the same time you will encourage the media to disturb the public. She'll be harassing the public as long as someone has to sit in custody. It's a disaster. This is not proud, this is a disgrace to the government of the Republic of Serbia to suggest this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60039	This is the time available for the DSS parliamentary group to be used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 212. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 216. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60040	Mr. Cossic, I can't understand why you're so afraid of computers? What's the big deal? Drawing and writing a pen on paper is the only thing you know in life. If someone needs to work on a computer, why not give them that right? If communication is a problem, stop the Internet, as it prevents the possibility of a cell phone calling from a detention unit. But someone with a computer can work on it. If you're afraid that some data will be entered into the computer that can compromise the process, trust me that data can also be entered into an ordinary book that looks new and is purchased in the store, coded and underlined by letters in the manner in which they agree with those outside, and it can be done that 10 guards can't break in or a security guard what it says. I think it's one completely insane thing for you to do one modern thing, modern techniques, not allow as a way to meet certain needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60041	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 227th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, position 1st Article 227. The bill reads: "A request for vomit in the previous state is submitted within eight days of the day of the interruption of interference". We have proposed our amendment to add the words here at the end: "the court before which a missed action was to be carried out". The applicant did not state to whom the application is submitted, whether it is submitted to the prosecutor, the second-degree court or the majority referred to in Article 21(4) or to anyone else. Only the introduction of the Institute "return into a previous state" is contrary to the claims of this code, to be more efficient and to speed up the process. The above does not even indicate why the accused is allowed to avoid and exceed the deadlines? The promoter apparently forgot to protect the rights of other participants in the process, i.e. Right and damaged. As if that wasn't enough, the promoter did not teach parties in the procedure to apply for vomiting in the previous situation. We believe that without the adoption of this amendment it will be necessary to adopt some sublegal act that regulates this issue, such as vomiting in the previous situation in criminal proceedings. The government's explanation of why it does not accept this amendment reads: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment requires a solution, as it comes from legal provisions", etc., etc. We believe that what is meant by such an important law should and should be written and therefore we believe that our amendment is acceptable and therefore we hope that this amendment will be adopted in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60043	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted to Article 231 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60044	Madam Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the Justice Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in order to save time, I did not want to talk about the amendment to Article 162 paragraph 1, however, there were grounds and to consider, since the criminal offence of the abuse of official office probably until the moment of entry into force of the Code of Criminal Procedure will not exist as a criminal offence, I hope. It is that for now in material law it exists and there was a basis for it to remain, although it is a relic of the past. Now I'm going back to Article 231. I suggested that Article 231 of Article 4 amend and read as follows: "If a public prosecutor or a person who replaces him in the submission of an insult to another participant in the proceedings, the court will inform the competent public prosecutor and the State's chief prosecutor, with the obligation to inform the court of the measures taken." I would like to suggest that Article 231(2) provides for the possibility of fines for the accused, the defendant, the aide, the legal representative, the damaged, the private prosecutor or the injured as a prosecutor who insults that authority or participants in the proceedings in the case. It's just meant for a lawyer to be notified to a competent bar, and that's fine. But, I note, with the obligation to inform the court of the measures taken. If in a situation where we have one participant, where we inform this professional organisation, the chamber, and we ask that the court be informed of the measures taken, on the other hand we have another participant in the proceedings, a public prosecutor, who, in the event that he insults another participant in the proceedings, only the competent public prosecutor and the State's chief prosecutor are informed, without punishment and without feedback, not even by the competent public prosecutor whether or not it is done. In this regard, I consider it necessary to even the position of the participants in the administrative procedure, on the one hand, lawyers, and to get feedback to the court from both sides. Or should we lift the obligation of feedback by the bar to court in the event of fines?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60045	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 231 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 233. Does anyone want a word? On Article 231 submitted by a group of DSS MPs. I ask the service to determine, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Milan Petkovic have submitted an amendment to Article 231, so I ask that an amendment be sent to me with an explanation of why he was missing from the script and the amendment if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is part of the procedure, will be searched. So, on Article 231 of the amendment, MP Mirko Munjic submitted, I informed the National Assembly about this, and also about the adopted amendment by Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The 233rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60046	Thank you for the amendment to Article 233. I suggested that it be recast because it is more effective in relation to, safer and secures the full legal certainty of the entities involved in taking certain actions. Mr. Cossic, in practice, what's going on? You have suggested, in Article 233, a number of actions to be taken in the search of the apartment and all that to search, search, review, review, what is written in the record, which items, how should be taken away and where to be kept, etc. But you don't have a single word to sign the record. Do you know, Mr. Cosic, that in practice we have cases drastically that it is large counterfeits, even a judge in the Belgrade court has forged a record with a major search. The lawyer, Desaric Jovo, when he received a verdict that did not match the evidence provided and did not match the facts established and the truth, by checking the case, found in the office that the judge forged the record and that he had re-converted it and re-converted it as such in the verdict. So, there's a possibility that false documents can make a court decision, and that's dangerous, and secondly, why you can't see who's doing what. Imagine, the apartment is being searched, the company is being searched, the firm, the law firm, or any other closed area of immovable property. It's all written, but it's not written, whether or not the minutes will be delivered. Secondly, the record must be signed by the present persons, the judge and the notary, the prosecutor, if present, the defendant, the defendant, the defendant, the damaged, the expert, and then let the judge try to forge the record and that on the forged record he can establish the verdict. Without the control of senior courts, and this is hard to find, it's not easy to get the right verdict. This is the exception I was talking about, it's not a rule, it's not done by judges on a wider scale, but there is a possibility and a great danger that false and falsified evidence can be based on a court ruling. Secondly, which is an obligation, that if it is a search of the person's apartment, it must be submitted to the record and it's all over and no one will be able to mount things anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60047	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. People's MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60048	Surely, the conduct of criminal proceedings and all other procedures takes care of the economics of the procedure, but should also be a dominant principle of material truth in the first plan. Convincing the cheapest thing about running a criminal trial is paper. There is really no reason to think this way, to make sure that the records are delivered to all persons who participate in taking a particular process action, because imagine in practice, colleague Cosic how it looks. In addition to the possibility of abuse of the record changing, I personally met with a large number of these cases, practically a lawyer has to go to the office, pay fees to copy the record, it takes a long time, the court's obligations, many judges have given a copy of the records without paying to, but say colleagues go and get the paper. You have to go to the bookstore to buy paper, to get the judge, so the judge has a second hearing, and there's a lot of time wasted on the most convincingly cheap stuff, and that's paper. Therefore, I think that this expensive paper should be ignored in relation to the values we want to achieve by this criminal procedure, by adopting this code, and I think we should seriously consider, if our goal is, and it is a common goal of all legatism, that everything is going according to the law, then I think we should allow all the participants in the criminal procedure to get a copy of it at the same time when they sign the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60049	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60050	This amendment refers to delivery, so often mentioned section in this bill, I do not think it is adequately regulated to provide letters to the accused and to the one to be delivered directly. It's primarily said here that it has to be delivered in writing to a person who is obliged to receive it, and what if it's not found in a place where the delivery has to be carried out. Then it is delivered to a full-time member of that household who is required to receive it. First, why it is necessary to accept it and the other things that are foreseen in the situation that he refuses to receive that letter and whether or not such a thing is foreseen at all. It's not supposed to. That's why you need to delete it. Come on, we can make a certain kind of agreement that needs to be delivered to a full-time person, but that's where you need to put the point. But you don't accept it, you go one step further and say if it isn't possible then it's written further delivered either to the president of the home council, or to the porter, or to the neighbors. Here we have to go from real life, from saying the defendant is not often in good relationships, neighbourly relations with the president of the home council or with a neighbor. What happens if the neighbor takes it in writing, from that moment on, the deadlines begin, the procedural deadlines for the defendant, and he is put in an extremely unfavourable legal process situation, without even knowingly being delivered. That is why we believe that this member should be fully regulated differently. We understand, of course, the problem of giving the defendant the opportunity for various abuses in delivery, or writing, but this needs to be resolved more adequately, not in a way that will be done by putting his procedural rights at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60051	Anyone else want a word? Please, I will give my word to Mr. Milos Aligrudic. With information from the service, it is obvious that there has been a failure, since MP Milos Aligrudic, along with MPs Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic, signed an amendment to Article 231nd position 2 and the amendment has the seal that was handed over at 11.55pm, together with the number on the stamp. I will submit a copy of this amendment to the Assembly for a stenogram, since, of course, the MP has the right to speak, and the debate on the amendment, i.e. to determine the reason, I am quite certain that it has been omitted in the list of amendments to the session, and, of course, in the list of amendments that the Government has, cannot prevent the MP from explaining the amendment. The word has the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60052	Thank you, we have an understanding of the mistake, they happen. So this amendment is very important. I would really like this moment when he is formally conducted through the procedure, that he be seriously considered by the ministers and people of the government. Here's the thing. In Article 2, when it comes to punishment in proceedings, it is possible for the authority to punish the fine by up to 100,000 dinars of the accused, the defendant, the proxies, and not to read now in a row. The problem is in the next, expression-organ of procedure, it means both the court and the prosecutors. I'm asking you most nicely to exempt the prosecutor from punishment, because the prosecutor has no right to do so. Putting a prosecutor in a court of law or even out of court, a pedestal court is something that is inappropriate in modern criminal law. Don't do this. He doesn't have that right. The body of proceedings here is not just a court, a term and a word used in Article 2 define exactly what the authority is in the process and say what it is, that it is the prosecutor. Therefore, do not let the prosecutor have the right to fine up to 100,000 dinars in the process. Please remove it, because if it stays, it's an absolute scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60053	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Due to the stenograms of this session, I agree that this amendment on which the search has been conducted is part of the search in particulars and the amendment submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic, will decide in the voting day. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 285 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60054	This amendment is a logical follow-up to the SRS amendment and our position that no prosecution investigation should have been provided for in this code. The basic reason certainly is that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to our Constitution, the government is proposing prosecutors to the National Assembly and in view of the experience that the National Assembly is fully in office of the Government and this has so far proved to be such, although it should not be so, we are allowing us to claim that they are actually prosecutors, mere officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that this is the direct influence of the executive on legislative authority. We ask now, which prosecutor will examine who allowed it in the House of the Army, is it Sutanovac, is the General Staff to meet representatives of NGOs who are directly influenced by the United States of America in the House yesterday and today, to announce that the day ahead of the announcement that the Shipari, the Cypriot terrorists will slowly, with the lack of agreement of the regime to round up their Shiptar state...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60055	People's MPs, I ask you most, on the subject of the agenda and the moment I address you, to remind you of the obligation, to respect the member who obliges us both to respect the agenda, then you are obliged to listen to the chairman. Please speak on the subject of the agenda and please sign in, you have another 30 seconds to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60056	I am very much on the subject of the agenda, I am talking about our position that it should not be in Serbia, in accordance with our Constitution, that it is impossible to introduce a prosecutor's investigation and ask which prosecutor is he, since the prosecutors are proposed by the government. Which is the prosecutor who will have the courage to launch an investigation into it and determine who allowed this anti-Serbian rally to be held. I ask which prosecutor, who, as Mrs Malovic said, will apply this law, and this also applies to judges in KIM territory, is that why you created the conditions... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60057	Two minutes... . Would you like to use the MP's time group as well? Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60058	Did you create conditions for the application of this law on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and do you know that today on the other side of the barricade... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60059	People's MPs, I've already warned you twice to stick to the agenda theme and to extend the argument that you consider not to be a violation of the agenda, I am obliged to remind you that it is. Now I'm warning you of a warning measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60060	Also, the question, are prosecutors under this Article 285th position on which I submitted the amendment, whether prosecutors are obliged to protect fundamental human rights and the right to freedom of movement in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A very clear question, and I'm asking for answers from the government's representatives. Then why today's debate on KIM territory, representatives of the SRS, could not move on to part of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60061	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 286.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60062	When it comes to the provision of Article 286, it is not sufficient and precise to regulate the powers of certain authorities. First of all, this member formulates and predicts all the actions authorised by officials can take, and this is in the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, well regulated. However, there is one flaw. The lack of a view is that, among other things, it is intended to be able to take other necessary measures and actions. Mr. Cosic, can you explain to me because in this service I've worked honorably for many years, I knew what actions I should take in these internal affairs bodies, but I can see that the actions that the current authorities can take at this time in the current law are, however, tax and precisely stated, that taking other necessary measures is not well arranged. You know how? Someone can make a mistake out of trouble, they have no intention, but they're taking some kind of action that's against the law. So what do we do? These actions can be numerous because the man who thinks they are necessary, the Law and the Constitution say they are banned, they must be incorporated into the law and must be precise and certain, firstly, to respect the Constitution, secondly, that members of the internal affairs authorities know which powers they can count on without error and not be exposed to certain responsibilities. I can tell you here a hundred cases where now, according to this non-determined provision, someone can take action and measures, but they don't know for what purpose, and they're not normable in the law. That's why I think this is really inappropriate. I'll only tell you about one case from the police. One day when I was working in the Home Office, a citizen comes to me and says, "Dear Inspector, there's a civilian here tonight, there's no army, there's no militia." They took Zika and Zika away, they want to piss him off. Now think, what can you do? We're looking for that face.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60063	In 2011, as coloruous as the stories of the '70s were, I ask you with the seriousness of the group's representatives on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60064	If you'll excuse me, it's about the fact that these actions are not precise and specific. I ask the promoter, so that we know that we tell people and that these people may know who are working and doing the honorable service, they need to be helped so much that the law needs to be specified that someone does not make a mistake and that fundamental human rights are not violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60065	The minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the MPs' group's time. The 287th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 287th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60066	The amendment we have made concerns police evidence. We believe that the solution in position 2 is extremely broadly formulated and that many more powers are given to the police than they should in fact look. In this position 2, as proposed in the bill, it is defined that any evidence obtained by the police during the investigation can be used in the course of the criminal proceedings, so that further means that it can be based on a court decision that is absolutely unacceptable. It's unacceptable for a number of reasons. I can understand why certain evidence of the police is used in criminal proceedings, for example, for the purposes of the confirmation of stolen cases, it's always been evidence and of course it will be, but what you're defining now is that any evidence that the police have obtained in the investigation process will be used. That's absolutely unacceptable. If we look at all this now in terms of how a prosecutor's investigation is envisaged, then we'll come to the conclusion of how unfair the position of the defendant himself is primarily because, apart from the fact that the evidence obtained by the police is being used in criminal proceedings, also, evidence obtained by the public prosecutor in the investigation is also used in criminal proceedings. So, here, we need to get things back to square one and say that the prosecution investigation is something that we accept, but with the extremely high authority of the prosecutor and the evidence that the prosecutor is getting in the investigation, they should only have one goal, and that's his decision on whether to press charges or not. We understand that certain actions that the prosecutor or evidence he has obtained in the investigation can be used in criminal proceedings, that is, the situation where certain witnesses or their testimony are difficult to come by because they are no longer present, because in the meantime they are mentally ill or died. At that time, we understand that these statements are read in the main search, but this does not mean that certain other criminal-legal laws are subject to comparable law, but it is understood that the evidence provided by the public prosecutor in the investigation must be re-proved in the main investigation because it is a party body. So, we can't mix the situation that we have now in the applicable code with what you're predicting, because the evidence from the investigation could now be used because it's a court case, and the evidence from the investigation he submitted, or which he did so, the public prosecutor can't be used because he's a party in the process, and especially not in this way you predicted, evidence that the police could be used in criminal proceedings. It is indeed something that should not stand in this law, and if you are already predicting it and where there are legitimate reasons, then this position must be completely different defined in terms of narrowing down the powers of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60067	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group's representative was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 287 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 289 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60068	My amendment refers to Article 289 concerning the suspect's hearing. In the amendment, I asked that paragraph 1 of Article 289 of the Prosecution be replaced by the word "pre-examination" in the term "pre-crisis", and in the 3rd sentence, "public prosecutor" is replaced by the words "investigation judge". The sentence: "A public prosecutor can conduct a hearing of a suspect, attend a hearing or a hearing to be entrusted to the police" is deleted. This is a set of SRS views on the position and role of the public prosecutor. Unfortunately, you have not accepted our amendments regarding the place and position of the public prosecutor and the extension of jurisdiction, but an open question is being raised. I ask the question of Justice Minister Mr. Cosic, to pass on, to see who will be responsible for the lack of justice, especially the prosecutor's office in a dispute that was in place three, four months ago, when he was arrested in BiH on the basis of an arrest warrant from Purd. Our judicial authorities have made noises to the heavens about how to arrest him, how to bring him in, how to deliver him, and have been asked officially to hand him over to Serbia. When BiH's judicial authorities asked for data on where the evidence is, we had no evidence and we gave up the extradition. Who's to blame? Who's to blame for this disgrace? The legal consequences that will take place after such a prudential position and the compensation to be paid by this State shall be two proceedings. By means of his defenders, Purda has sent two claims for compensation for the damages of illegal confiscation, deprivement of freedom and arrest, one in Croatia where the Republic of Serbia has been sued, and the other in BiH, where BiH's judicial authorities have arrested him. Who's gonna pay that fine? The Republic of Serbia will pay for the disorder of the sloppy relationship between judicial authorities. Who's the biggest culprit for all this? The most prominent bodies in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the minister of justice. If justice were in this country, the minister of justice would know that there is no evidence, and there is a valid warrant, he would resign and say - I can't, etc., and before that I would have replaced someone in the hierarchy of the judicial authorities. Unfortunately, it's all dirty, illegal, etc. Who's going to pay for all this in the end? Citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60069	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 290. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Petar Jojic, from the place: Yes. ) National MP, please follow the work of the session and that, if it is your will to identify and identify yourself in the electronic system, you are doing so unanimously during the session so as not to retain MPs who also want a word and are reported neatly in the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60070	Can I use one of those words? Thank you. I don't see why you had to explain so much to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60071	People's MP, most kindly I reminded you of the obligations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which it is clear, that it cannot be clearer, says that the Members of Parliament are obliged to identify themselves in the electronic voting system, i.e. to put their identification card in the parliamentary voting system. Here it is considered a good practice, whatever I think it is, it has been adopted, that the MP considers that abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is his or her political right. Since it is a practice that the majority agreed on, which is opposed to the Rules of Procedure, you do so throughout the debate in particular and retain the debate, believing that you have the right to place your card or not in the parliamentary unit. When I ask you most normally, you continue to act as if the provisions of the Rules of Procedure do not apply to you, and apply to all other MPs, so that I ask that until the end of the debate in particular, using the abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges us all to be identified by the rhythm that suits you, and which does not disturb the course of the session, you violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and you abuse the rights given to you. Please sign in, you have a word, amendment to Article 290.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60072	There was something about the system here...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60073	People's MP, I now warn you that I will give you warning measures. Either we will behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we will not mock the procedures that apply equally to everyone or we will apply those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which you consider to be in violation of until further notice without being forced to give you measures of caution. It is an absolute violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, what you are now doing and is unworthy of a representative of a parliamentary group. You have the last warning before giving the warning measure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60074	In Article 290 of the proposed Code on Criminal Procedure, as regards the position of 1st word: "public prosecutor" is replaced by the words "investigation judge". And in Section 2, I suggest that six hours be replaced by three hours. Why am I saying this? Why did I suggest that? Because a lot of people don't have experience proposing laws. They think as if an investigative judge or prosecutor from Vranj would go to Subotica for insight and on the scene. But according to the public prosecutor's office, courts and police, the furthest place could be an hour away to arrive today with a car on the spot. That's why it's necessary. How are we going to let a family who comes back from the sea stay on the spot for six hours to get kids at 35 or 40 degrees? Is that justified? Is that what the promoter had in mind? He didn't mean anything. I suggest that we act rationally and responsibly when we propose norms and assess whether this norm is in accordance with that normal way of life, because three hours is enough for the investigating judge or prosecutor to arrive at any place of events on his territory, therefore, with regard to senior prosecutors and with regard to the main prosecutors. That's why we think this amendment is effective, so I suggest that the pronoun thinks that way, that this time is shortened, because it's a pity to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60075	The title above Article 291 and Article 291 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 292 and Article 292 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60076	The title above Article 292 reads: "Criminal arrest". Article 292. - anyone can arrest a person found in the execution of a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted under official duty. In order for this to be realised and implemented, it is not common for each person to be arrested, but for the exact authorities provided for and established by law. So that this can be applied stands cumulatively to meet two conditions. One is that the person was found committing a crime and the other is being prosecuted for it by official duty. We have suggested that instead of the title: "Arrested in the execution of the crime" and the word: "Arrested" is changed and that the title be "deprived of freedom in the execution of the crime and "absorbed" in exchange for the words "deprive freedom". We pulled this out of the Constitution. Article 28, the Constitution does not know the arrest, but says – deprivement of freedom. On the basis of the reasons why the amendment does not accept it, it is said that Article 2 paragraph 1 point 23 provides for this. Mr. Cosic, who reads these amendments, do those who give answers, write, talk to each other? I wouldn't ask you a question like this. I have no intention of speaking to you personally, as the only representative of the government at this point, I have to ask you a question. In Article 2 paragraph 1 point 23), where certain concepts which are further used in this Code are explained, it appears to be a depravation of freedom, and then defines what it is all about depriving freedom. You said there was an arrest in this article, and it wasn't. The arrest sounds so nice to you, especially in pre-election times, when you say – so many were arrested and later these people were released. Now, strengthening the role and importance of the prosecutor, it is likely to be a greater possibility of abuse and even greater corruption in the judicial system than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60077	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic to Article 293. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 294 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60078	Mr. Cosic, I am speaking to you even though you do not have the opportunity to respond, but this is one of the most comprehensive amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. It refers to the detention of the suspect. He's got five attitudes. The amendment accurately determines what rights are and what everything a lawyer can do, that is, defends the person who is detained and what the police are obliged to do, and, of course, the public prosecutor in case that person does not engage within a certain period of time, but is assigned to him by official duty. It's very important that we also managed the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, because you didn't predict that against the solutions to detain the suspect and his defender had the right to appeal. We have stated, within six hours of the delivery of the solution. The appeal shall be decided by the judge for pre-criminal proceedings within four hours of receipt of the appeal. Not that I'm not happy with the response of the motionary, or the government, but this is amazing, Mr. Cosic. I know that in your ministry, as well as in the government, people who write these arguments and opinions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must at least have a certain qualification. I believe these are the people who regularly graduate from high school, the law schools, and now they're delivering this to us. An explanation of why this amendment to the SRS is not accepted as if it had been written by someone like Tomislav Nikolic, functionally illiterate, as it was published on Wikilix, or by someone like him who bought a degree from a high school facility, is not yet known which, but we know that he bought a diploma. It'll reveal where it is and what it is. You didn't have the right to accept this, because it's very important that everyone's rights are respected in this way as we predicted. You know very well, Mr. Cosic, and now you want to apply this practice, that the president of our party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, is in custody for nine years, as they say, in the casamat in The Hague. He didn't get a solution to the detention. Published indictment, I bought a plane ticket. To this day, that amount has not even been refunded. He got on a plane, went to The Hague and defended himself for nine years. We are not going to apply such a practice in Serbia's criminal code, as is the case in The Hague. The tribunal, where Dr Seselj, although without a solution to the detention and without the possibility of a fair and correct trial and the trial within a reasonable time, was beaten entirely by the Hague tribunal, which you see and you know both the entire domestic and international public. You should have accepted this amendment, because it is very important to protect the rights of anyone who has the right to complain and to object to detention in custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60079	This also used the time available to the SRS parliamentary group. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60080	I would like to discuss this proposed amendment with the last sentence, in the last position of the proposed amendment, where it is proposed, that if the suspect does not provide the defendant within four hours, the investigative judge will provide it to him by official duty. I note, it has been proposed in accordance with the order laid down by the President of the competent bar of attorney or by the person authorised by him. I don't think the law should empower any natural person, not the president of a competent bar of law to determine order, and even less a person designated by the president of a competent bar of attorney. In any case, at least in this regard, I find the proposal much more correct in the very draft law on the list of lawyers delivered by the competent bar. The area is regulated by applicable regulations and I see no reason to change and why the president of the bar should be empowered to do something he has no right to do so so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60081	One minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. (Natasa Jovanovic from the place: Replica. ) To explain MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica? National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60082	Mr. Mikovic, I don't think you're right because we've put up with this from every precautionary point of view, because we consider what the practice has shown, that there's a lot of corruption in the work and the rope between the police and the lawyers on each list, and this would be the most just solution for every suspect. I have to call on that practice again, so-called. The Hague tribunal, where there are those who are reportedly required by official duty, or as forced defenders to represent The Hague indictees. Remember, Stephen Kay, in a case killed in The Hague tribunal, Slobodan Milosevic, an attempt, that the president of our party starved to the very edge of life by preventing a certain Vander Spool from being imposed on him as a defender, until the latest case of the appearance of the famous Hague general Ratko Mladic, whom you delivered to the enemies in The Hague tribunal to be informed of Aksentjevic, as such, appeared in the courtroom, and that the general of that day, when it was due to be declared about that indictment, which the enemies of Serbia and the Serbian people wrote against him, did not know that these phenomena which he said - judge, respected the greater, etc. So they're in cahoots with the authorities in the face of corruption. That's why it's normal for someone competent to determine from that list who's going to represent the one who's not able to pay for his own defender. That's our legal argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60083	Thank you. National MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Mirko Cikiriz have been reported. Do it in a row. The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60084	In any case, the bill says – a lawyer under official duty should be determined in accordance with the list of lawyers provided by the competent legal chamber. The proposed amendment allows for the volunteering of the president of the competent bar of attorney, because the amendment stands – in order to determine the president of the competent bar. You suggest that the president of the competent bar determines his order every time, even without the obligation to deliver a certain list in advance. Not only is it going to that, but who is appointed by the president of the competent bar of attorney or by the person he has jurisdiction over. So the President of the Attorney General can empower another person to determine the order in each individual case. I don't think that's allowed, and it's not in line with what they're up for, and all the lawyers in all the law firm. The list should exist. There is a way to determine that list itself, and there is no need to allow volunteering to any individual to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60085	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60086	The proposal proposed by the ministry I think is aimed at eradicating corruption and illegal actions in defence by official duty. Until this legal provision was passed, no list and no order was respected at all. In particular, it has been expressed in the last 10 years when many former police officers became lawyers, they also became detained defenders under official duty, thanks to their ties in the police, the police department for the execution of criminal sanctions, with people who worked in custody, with guards, etc. In every court, you knew exactly what defense attorneys were doing under the official duty of the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called official. detention cases. Don't forget that in case someone is ordered to be held in custody, for whoever is in custody, whether the perpetrator or not is a perpetrator of the crime, it seems shocking. In such situations, people are willing to pay a much higher amount of money to be taken out of custody, to be released from a regular state. That's the fact that she's been most abused. By rejecting the proposal proposed by Miss Natasa Jovanovic and by retaining the proposal proposed by the ministry of justice, we will have a fair defence schedule under official duty. To give that authority to the president of the bar, that means that the president of the bar will most often have his favorite lawyers, with whom he will probably share the money, which will allow for the continuation of corruption which I do not think is anyone's goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60087	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Petar Jojic. The time available for representatives of the parliamentary group is eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60088	Thank you. I would not agree with such claims as I have heard from my esteemed colleagues for the reason that in practice so far, and I will ask a parliamentary question, what will I ask for the answer – according to regional courts and regional prosecutors and regional police authorities, will you convince me, dear colleagues, to respect that list in order? If you gentlemen can prove it to me, I'll apologize. All I know is that lists are delivered to the competent court to appoint persons, or lawyers, under official duty. In practice, however, it turns out that one of these same lawyers is going to the police to be defenders on official duty, that some judges favor privileged lawyers who are great culprits, for this they are specialists, but in practice they repeat themselves. But I didn't literally get it, and you didn't get it right, so I just needed the president of the bar to set it up. The bar has a board of directors. It is a greater guarantee, since this variant and this method of deployment were not controlled to a sufficient extent, so you had people who were constantly assigned to the police by family or friendly or godfather ties, but the legal regional chamber or the republican and the provinces are competent to control. If we chose the president of the Vojvodina Bar or the Serbian Bar Association, then it is expected that the board of directors and the president of the relevant bar of attorneys will control, not that you will have the same lawyers. Comrade Mikovic, you won't say it, and you probably know it well. If you don't know, I have no reason to blame you, that some relatives go to the police exclusively on the birthline. Please, this is serious. It's the foot of corruption. The police like to have order. Elders can't determine what's going on. At night or afternoon, after work hours, lawyers are hired to defend their persons on official duty. According to me, with my experience, since I have checked that what we proposed in 2000 has not produced adequate results, and before I agree to trust the President of the Bar Association, because he has legitimacy – whether he is in Surdulica, or in Subotica, or in Vranj, from Novi Sad or Belgrade, he does not know which in the most common cases. That's why the control and filter is with the president of the bar, and he should report every three months to the board of attorneys that the state of affairs is with regard to the engagement of defence attorneys. Some get rich, Mrs. Comic, they get rich this way. I can see that I haven't even gotten an understanding from those who have experience. Mr. Chikiriz knows what was going on in Novi Sad, how the insurance police robbed an insurance company. This is what procedures are being conducted and procedures are being conducted and all of this is connected. I expect the legislator to regulate this. In my opinion, it's not enough to deliver just a series of lawyers, it's enough to control the bar as it is at work and on site, on the ground. From Novi Sad, how are you doing in Vrsca? How are things in Pancheva, Zrenjina and Mitrovica? From Belgrade? How do you get rid of Nis, Kragujevac, Užica, Valev and not count? In my opinion, you don't have to accept this opinion, just, I know, it's a wide space and a possibility for corruption. So let's help the leadership of the police, the President of the Court and those who need to apply it, control it, and the bar attorney and the president of the bar, with the board of directors, pay more attention than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60089	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60090	I could agree with the good part of my colleague Jojic's discussion, but it doesn't say. So it's just that there's a problem, which is that the amendment doesn't say that. The amendment reads – in accordance with the order set out by the President of the Competent Bar or the person authorised by it. So the amendment doesn't even predict the existence of a list. The order determines the physical person, the individual, or the person he empowers. It's nice to say that the board of attorneys has to control the president of the bar to control and everything is absolutely fine with the discussion. The only problem here is that the proposed amendment doesn't say that. Better what is written in the bill than what is written in the amendment. That's all I'm saying. All this about control, whether the law is respected or not, whether it's going on that list or not, it's supposed to go on the list. I think it's undeniable. The bill says it's going in order from the list of lawyers. So let's adopt such a law, as proposed, and then, in the process of law enforcement control, see if the president of the competent bar, the board of directors and everyone else is in control and whether we should also see if the law and all regulations are respected. I'm just saying, what's important is what's written and my discussion is in the context of what's written in the bill and what's written in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60091	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. (Natasa Jovanovic, from town: Replica! You do not have the right to reply, we all read the amendments, nothing offensive and nothing vague is said. Whoever follows the dialogue closely can be National MP Petar Jojic is right on time. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: How can I not have the right to a replica, is my amendment?]] I explain why National MP Natasa Jovanovic does not have the right to reply, and you have three minutes and 30 seconds as a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60092	You see, it's not clear to me how we don't trust the president of the bar and how it can't be understood that the president of the bar has a phone book. Well, he's got a lawyer's phone book, and he's got to follow it, so he doesn't have to write it all down here. It is regulated by the statutes, but in any case it is understood that the bar of attorneys owns a register of lawyers from which to deploy and determine people. If we're supposed to check the president of the bar here, who's elected by 7,000 lawyers, or in Belgrade three thousand and three hundred, that's really not necessary. Better this, let the president of the bar do it, and he answers. If he finds out that he's installing relatives, friends, godmothers, and that it's corruption, then he knows what's going on, he has to bear sanctions. I want to do the best I can again, and I want to break practice first of all, because we haven't gotten anything better if this stays in the law, nothing better. Here, Mr. Mikovic, go to Panchevo, take the order and you'll see how many you have, you can count them on your fingers, who are constantly engaged, defenders on official duty, or are hired by the Centre for Social Work. There's also a lawyer who doesn't stand a chance for ten years of being lawyers on official duty. Then we can't say for those people either. They're illiterate and they're not expert in defending anyone. That would be discrimination pure. I had good intentions, and most of the time it's about whether to adopt a amendment like this or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60093	It was used two minutes from the time of representatives of the parliamentary group, and is available for another minute and 30 seconds. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60094	Within time. I must say that I do not dispute the good intentions and believe that your intentions were good. However, if we adopt the amendment proposal in this part, then the president of the competent legal chamber or a person who has authority will be the authority to determine the order himself. Nowhere does it say that all lawyers will be evenly represented or that all lawyers will be counted. No, by adopting your amendment, the order can determine the president of the competent bar, where he can determine three lawyers in a circle, or one lawyer in a circle. So I'm telling you again what's written. I don't dispute the good intentions that you wanted everyone to be equally represented, but it doesn't say that. So, right now, we don't have an amendment to supplement that and that I might possibly be able to support you. So in this part, if the order determines one individual or, worse still, the person he powers, then we haven't done anything. Then there is no obligation at all to deliver any list and then there is no possibility of abuse by the president of the competent bar, because by adopting this amendment, you are giving him a "cart blast" to determine who he wants and no one can call him. Absolutely no one can call him, because by law you would give him that authority. I'm not arguing that your intention was good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60095	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Petar Jojic has a word and is available for a minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60096	My friend, let's cut the practice so far. I have more confidence in the president of the bar, who has to account for the board of directors, and other chambers of the regional, than that we have so far practice, in which corruption and crime are deeply rooted. It's about what I want to achieve a new solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60097	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60098	With regard to the assessment of how the defence is now under official duty and what all abuses are, we feel exactly the same way about our colleagues, Mikovic and my colleagues, Jojic and I. The bill puts in place exactly the balance, as many respected colleagues were talking about wider powers and prosecutors, the court's powers, etc. talked about the need to prevent abuse of powers. The abuse of public prosecutor's authority has been prevented here, by the fact that the public prosecutor is obliged to respect the list of lawyers and must not skip anyone, because if he does, then he will be called to account, and he is not proposed by the amendment to the balance, the control of the president of the chamber of lawyers who, as counterpart Mikovic said, with several lawyers immediately to establish corruption ties, he is constantly proposing as defence attorneys under official duty. Without a doubt in your good intentions, this would really pave the way for the continuation of corruption, which certainly is nobody's intention, I don't believe yours or the Ministry, and therefore this amendment really shouldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60099	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. On a single amendment, MP Sreto Peric proposed to join the article. 296, 297, 298, 299, 300, 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310, 311 and 312. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60100	You've seen how rational we are. With one amendment, we are trying to intervene in the 16 members. The analysis of the current Law on Judges, the Law on Prosecutors, the powers of their network, the analysis of the proposed Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, to conclude that someone who was in charge of conducting judicial reform first assessed how many obedient judges and prosecutors there were, and then determined their number. Of course, the procedure was followed by reception and schedule. A number of prosecutors were left who were presumed not to be obedient, who were not elected and now out of the Republic of Serbia's budget are being allocated huge funds for their compensation. You know you didn't do it right. On the other hand, you've seen that a certain number of judges, and of course the prosecutors, can't achieve everything that's set before them under the law. Especially since the European Court of Human Rights very often says that it is being delayed in the process and that the trial does not take place within a reasonable time. Then you're trying to transfer certain jurisdiction from the court to the public prosecutors. The D.A. is a state body. According to his definition, he cannot provide a party, he cannot be objective to the extent that it would be a court. We don't agree with that, we don't agree that the investigation is being conducted by the prosecutor. We believe that, again because of a number of prosecutors, we do not claim that they are all such, there are honest people there, but there are also those prosecutors whose house and apartment painting is paid by some other people, if there remains such a solution, the rights of many will be compromised, as are the rights of a large number of Serbs and members of the SRS who have one sign next to the room – we shoot...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60101	Time. Thank you. The 297th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60102	The bill states firstly: "The order to conduct an investigation shall be delivered to the suspect and his defender, if any, along with a call or notice of the first evidence action which I may attend." I suggest that the text of the bill is not clear enough, is the defendant and the defendant informed of the first evidence store or only the first evidence store they can attend? The amendment is that the order to conduct an investigation is sent to the suspect and his defender, if any, along with a call or notice of the first evidence action, and they may attend. So, my amendment requires that they be informed and accused and defended in general of the first evidence action in the process and that they may attend this first evidence store, not to be notified of another, third, fifth evidence action that they can attend for the first time. I think it's very important. Again, I must say that in the review of the amendments and in the report of the Government, I am not literally listed the text of the amendments, but the error was written: "on the legal evidence store", not "on the first evidence store", when my amendment was quoted. That's what I'm telling my fellow MPs who I'm trying to convince them to vote for my amendment on the day we decide. I would also like to point out that the amendment should not be accepted because the order to conduct an investigation can also be made immediately after the first evidence action that can be taken and in order to determine the identity of the perpetrator. I am merely referring to the provisions of the draft law, not as regards the investigation but as regards the investigation procedure, particularly the authority of the authority of the investigation procedure, where Article 286 defines that the necessary measures may also be taken in that part of the procedure in relation to the identification of the person. So what about identifying identities doesn't have to be at the very moment of the investigation, but also in the previous course. The second thing, the amendment itself is not explicit, that the suspect and his defender must attend the shop. Either way, they need to be notified. Only in writing to the suspect and his defender, I think it should contain a written notice of the first evidence store and a notice that it may be present. Whether or not she'll be present directly or not, that's the second part of the story. I think, in principle, if we're making a bill, we should go to the ideal one, but by adopting the amendment, there's no possibility of obstruction of the procedure and of being blocked because, possibly, one of these two didn't come or didn't attend the evidence store. That's why I don't see a problem with why this amendment wouldn't be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60103	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60104	I would use the part as a representative of the parliamentary group, to point to all the farsibilities that are happening here and which is clear to us sitting in this room. Since the ruling majority has turned this into a press conference for MPs sitting in an O.R., I think it's our duty to explain to the citizens what this is all about. In fact, we are forced to discuss the amendments we have submitted, many of which are false reasons for refusing or accepting. And fellow Mikovic said earlier, you called it "wrong quotes", and it's not, they're fake. My amendment, which reads: Article 1 adds a new position 2. It was rejected because of its erasure of attitude 6, according to the government's argument. But we don't have anyone to talk to here because in front of the chairman's seat, a man we know belongs to the ministry, but his presence is pointless, because he can't answer his word. So this is all done just because there's a transmission, and that's what this debate is all about. When Mr. Mikovic says he wants to convince fellow MPs to vote for his amendment, Mr. Mikovic, these 16 MPs sitting here cannot vote any amendments, and in total there are six representatives from the ruling majority, whom I assume you wanted to address. Where are they? I don't know. Where's the minister, from which you might be able to get an answer, I don't know. Why are we doing all this, except for the citizens watching us, and that certainly doesn't have any direct influence, I don't know that either. Since it's the ruling majority's decision to ignore this situation and act like everything's fine and everything's normal, I think my duty as an opposition MP was to warn this. Many colleagues have spoken, very serious things and arguments have been used here. What's all this, except for being on channel two of RTS, unless there's some game or some other bowling contest or whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60105	The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60106	With all the arguments of an esteemed colleague who believes he is right, I believe he is wrong and that it is the duty and obligation of each of us MPs to try to persuade other colleagues to justify a certain amendment. I must say, in relation to the amendments submitted, from the adopted six amendments by the government, two amendments have been accepted and we have been informed. I managed to propose one amendment through the Justice and State Administration Committee and that amendment is in the process. This is an amendment to Article 73, where in paragraph 1 I suggested that the defendant could only be a lawyer, and could be replaced by a lawyer under the Law on Lawyerry, if the proceedings are conducted for a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to five years can be imposed by law, and in the course of the legal remedy, the defendant can only be a lawyer. Just because I've been working on the Justice Committee, it's got most of it, and that amendment is in the process, and here it's going to be decided on the tide. Then we will convince each other that this amendment will pass. I sincerely hope he will because, for example, only by that amendment will we allow the possibility of a lawyer working today who can go to a criminal court and participate in criminal proceedings and will be able to participate in criminal proceedings by September 1st of the following year. The situation will not happen after September 1st next year, it will be impossible to participate in a criminal case. That's why I'm explaining why we have to work hard until the debate is over in detail that any argument we can make here in the debate. I hope that this argument on the subject of Article 73 will pass and that we will have a majority in the day that we decide that such a thing goes by and that we have the possibility that young people who are defined as living resources to support their and their families from law enforcement will be trained during working with the principle within those two years, that when they are independent lawyers, when they are assigned to the list of lawyers who will defend themselves by official duty, they can also be trained, not knowing how to enter the door. That's why I think every amendment here should be explained in detail, and I'm sure that all of you present here in the O.R. will be able to talk to your colleagues and pass on at least part of this argument that can be the basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60107	Mr. Andric Ivan. No, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60108	He told me I was wrong. What's a bigger base for replica than that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60109	Here, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60110	Of course you'll allow it, you're just taking the money. Mr. Mikovic, that play, my intention wasn't to take you with me. I think you're doing it more to yourself, what you're doing now, than you're explaining to us, so you're going to be carrying the consequences yourself, and you're a full-timer, so you're able to decide on your own. What's obvious is that you didn't get me. There are no MPs here. If you count us, that's what I told you, so there was no need for you to explain to me why it was important to explain the amendment. I understand that, but I'm telling you that you have no one who, since she wasn't a minister, no fellow MPs, no interest in this subject, do something more important, think about public property, I don't know what, so I pointed out the senselessness of your behavior that you later confirmed. I'm glad that Madam Minister is back, so we'll be able to now, I hope you'll have someone to direct your objections to and these remarks that your amendment has been rejected, and that the explanation didn't match what you've actually suggested. I encourage you in your intention, especially because I have the same experience with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60111	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60112	As far as the amendments to the distinguished colleague Mikovic are concerned, I think that, since a new institute is being introduced here, that an investigation is being carried out against the unknown perpetrator of the crime, that this amendment, within the whole spirit of the code, would not be comprehensive. It's a good thing the Justice Minister's back. I don't think we forget, correctness for the sake of the public, the minister of justice is one of the few ministers who 99% of the time is committed to the debate and is indeed present at all the debates. We were working late last night without a TV feed. Regardless of being an MP for the ruling majority, I tried to convince the Ministry of Justice in my own capacity to accept several amendments to opposition MPs and I really don't understand this performance by an esteemed colleague who spoke before fellow Mikovic about us holding a press conference here and talking about something that doesn't make any sense at all, which is not true at all. Here are mostly people who perform in front of the profession and I didn't recognize at any of the only performances of colleagues who are seriously involved in this matter that they don't share the intention that in the final text of the law we have the best possible law, so, using TV transmission, not attending a session when there's no TV transmission to maintain some reputation for the ruling majority, I think it's a little incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60113	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60114	With this amendment, we have proposed three new positions in Article 299 because we believe it is necessary that some of the actions in the investigation be taken by the court. That's what they're called. emergency court proceedings when there is a danger that they will no longer be able to repeat themselves on the main search because, for example, the witness is either sick or quite old, or there is some other important reason why he will not be able to appear on the main search. We then provided for two options, that if the judge accepts for the previous proceedings a proposal from the defender and his lawyer to then invite the defender and his lawyer to attend the execution of that evidence, and if he refuses such a proposal, then he will decide on the same same proposal by a larger court directly, or directly senior court, in a higher than three judges. We are all saying this because we believe it is necessary to propose a higher jurisdiction of the judge for the previous proceedings, primarily because it is a prosecutor's investigation, primarily because the evidence taken by the prosecutor, or which he collects, can be directed exclusively at his decision whether to press charges or not. So, the evidence that the prosecutor, for the thousandth time today, I repeat, collects in the investigation should not be used in the main investigation and that in the course of the criminal proceedings, because they exclusively have one goal, which is to prove whether there is enough evidence to press charges or not. I believe that here, if our objective is justice, if our goal is to come to a more efficient and fairer procedure, we need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60115	The 300th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60116	Criminal regulations are a mirror of democracy, Madam Minister. If you look at yourself in this mirror of yours, you'll see a freak in my reflection. In Article 300, when it comes to hearing witnesses by a public prosecutor, it is said that a witness can also be questioned without calling the suspect and his lawyer, but that the court decision can then be based solely or to a decisive extent on the testimony of such a witness. That just sounds reasonable, but it's definitely not reasonable. In this way, you also make it possible for judgment to be based on the testimony of such a witness. If you wanted to introduce the elements of American criminal law into the domestic justice system, then be honest and bring it all the way. In the United States, there is no possibility that any verdict can be made without allowing the defendant, namely the defendant, to hear the witness's testimony. So, it's absolutely impossible, it can be conducted by the prosecutor's investigation, it can be investigated by the prosecutor and it can be questioned by witnesses, it can be right, and it has here, that it serves as a guide in the main proceedings, that based on the witness's testimony, whether the witness is fit for trial, but it can't be completely excluded. Our amendment rules it out completely, no court ruling if the witness is heard without the defendant's presence. The 300th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60117	Article 300(4) provides that "if the suspect has a lawyer, the public prosecutor will, as a rule, call or inform only the defence attorney". The amendment proposed that "if the suspect has a lawyer, the public prosecutor will normally call and inform both the suspect and the defence attorney. I'm saying, it's done by rule, so both, everything else remains the same, "if the suspect is in custody, and the evidence store is taken outside the court's seat, the public prosecutor can decide if the suspect needs to be present. "So I'm trying to expand the rights of the defendant here in the sense that he should normally be informed. It's not always about the elected defender, some time it's about the appointed defender under official duty, and in that situation, the defendant, the question of whether or not he'll be notified, so he won't be notified. I say we keep him informed. Allowing that in certain situations, if the needs of procedures are different, not to be notified. But let's find out that it's usually what's wider and more favourable for the defendant, and that the exception is what brings the defendant to a different situation. So once again I point out it's not always about the existence of an elected defender in a procedure that I have no doubt that the defendant has unlimited confidence that he is present with me. In this regard, I propose that we adopt the amendment in no way conclude anything in the Bill's proposal that we can't do it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60118	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60119	This article 302 we had a need to intervene on is extremely bad. He's a bad member for a number of reasons, and I'll try to explain in the shortest possible terms what his essence is. It's about taking over evidence actions for the benefit of the defense. Then when the defendant and the defendant propose to the public prosecutor to take over a certain evidence store, because he's not able to do it alone. The D.A. has the possibility of refusing her and, of course, not taking her over. If rejected, then they have the right to address the prosecutor, or the judge for a previous procedure which is given only one option, which is to adopt the proposal. What if he refuses? There's no such thing as a solution here. Such cases will be the most. So the defendant and his defendant will not even have the possibility of a procedural opportunity to complain about such a decision. Simply here in this amendment, this amendment is, in our opinion, part of an organic continent with an amendment proposed to Article 299, which increases the role of the judge for the previous proceedings. That's our intention in this article, too, and we suggested that if a public prosecutor refuses a proposal to take a certain evidence action, that the judge for the previous proceedings must do so. So he does if it's in his best interest to come to justice, to a fair solution. This is all said in the context of the fact that, on solid evidence and arguments, it represents its position, that parties in such a defined criminal procedure are extremely unequal. Who knows which time I've repeated this, and I think this article 302 has been defined and confirmed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60120	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60121	In Article 303, I suggested that it be determined and how long it should take for that set period to be set in paragraph 2 and I suggested that it be a deadline, not less than 8 days. In accordance with Article 302, the deadlines are set at 8 days each, with regard to the very conduct of the public prosecutor and in the position of Article 1 of Article 303 it has been defined that the public prosecutor is obliged to allow the suspect who is the defendant of the hearing to consider the files and divorces in cases which serve as evidence within a time period of time for the preparation of the defence. And there's a public prosecutor's office to determine the time limit he thinks is enough to examine. Then, after reviewing the case file and reviewing the case, the public prosecutor will call on the suspect and his defender, again, to put forward a proposal to take certain evidence actions within a certain period. I am convinced that in most cases, the public prosecutor will set deadlines that are appropriate both for reviewing the file and for submitting the proposal for, which will be carried out during the investigation. But I note that the consequences of this particular time limit set out in Article 2 are defined in paragraph 4. If the proposal referred to in Article 2 is rejected or the suspect or defender fails to comply with Article 2(2) of this Article, the prosecutors will decide on the completion of the investigation. So, the investigation can be completed, in that sense I thought it useful to define that this deadline is not shorter than 8 days, in a more captive case, the prosecutor himself will probably set a longer term, but precisely to avoid the possibility of volunteering of the handling public prosecutor himself to set a deadline of a day, two or three or something he can't do, anything the defendants and defenders can't answer, in that sense I thought was useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60122	The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted an amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 305. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Chapter XVI, Section 2 and Articles 313 to 330, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60123	This section refers to the public prosecutor's agreement and the defendant. This is from the SRS aspect absolutely unacceptable as a legal category, this is taken over from the Anglo-Saxon legal system, and this is literally the tribunalization of our judicial system. We argue that this, this already exists in criminal law in a certain way, the law on criminal proceedings and you wrote it in your explanation, but regardless of the fact we believe that this should not be a legal category and that this is how the legal system in Serbia is changed. You're saying that there are agreements between the prosecutor and the accused that exist as a category and parallel law, etc. Of course, these are your arguments because you accept everything you are ordered to do, we do not accept it, and unfortunately I do not have enough time to explain on many occasions how this institute is being abused and how it is simply unacceptable you know that someone commits a crime with the prosecutor and then can do what the prosecutors ask him to do because he did not accept a plea, so Momcilo Perisic received a 27-year sentence in The Hague tribunal. Of course, we have many examples in the Serbian judiciary, I hope there will be time for some other amendments. Just in the end, I want to inform the Serbian public that there is no more "stop, we shoot KFORs" passwords have been removed by Serbian radicals and found ways to cross over to the Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija and are now on their way to Zvecan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60124	Members of the 313rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 313 regulates an agreement on the execution of a criminal offence, that is, the confession of a criminal offence, as it is worded here. But how? So the law does not provide for a restriction of the plea agreement. And what's that gonna mean in practice? It means that the possibility of a deal being made regarding any crime is created. The prosecutor and the defendant sits well, they agree, and when it comes to the crime of rape, paedophilia, human trafficking, serious murder, any criminal act provided for by criminal law. In your explanation, you have stated that you reject this amendment because in parallel law and in practice this has proved to be extremely good. I really don't see any reason to add to this article another position proposed by the DSS that an agreement on the criminal part of the crime line should be made for up to 12 years as it was in the previous law. I think this is presented in a much better way to protect all of us, without allowing it to turn into a farce, trade, to those people who have enough money, enough resources and opportunities to exert a variety of pressures and enable themselves to get away from the execution of criminal sanctions they deserve based on the execution of the crime. You've had your understanding so far, you've accepted a series of our amendments, and I don't think this old thing's going to make it worse and worse for the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60126	The amendment with the correction together was submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60127	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. First of all, I didn't want to take up time a little before answering for the line, but to the SPO gentleman, what each of us is saying here is the best mirror of each and every one of us, so if you see it as a television broadcast as a place where you're going to promote yourself, it's an honor to you. We from the opposition see it as a place where we will try to say something that is not possible in a different way and as one of the basic pillars of democracy in Serbia where we are, I've thought of this replica a little before, and now I'm sure of which some of us fought for in the 1990s. If you have a problem with the transmission, stop it. It's your right. You've done a lot of things as the ruling majority. I don't know what's stopping you from doing that. Dear Mrs Malovic, we have submitted the amendment, we have tried not to burden the law, we have submitted only four amendments if I am not mistaken. And what's unfortunately ours, we don't think that even though there were few of them in an adequate way by the people of the ministry processed, we see it from an explanation. Here, in order not to wait and not waste time later, the explanation of the rejection of our second amendment is contrary to the solution that has been skipped by the law. That's what the amendment is for, simply to change the solution proposed by law. So let's say, of course I don't think it's your responsibility, but I think it's the responsibility of the ministry people. As far as this Article 313 is concerned, we have submitted an amendment based on the recommendations of our colleagues from the party or colleagues in life, which deal with criminal law and allow me to explain one illogicality to you. Namely, this proposal, as well as the previous one, allows the agreement to be made in a colloquial language at the first hearing or at the time when the defendant pleaded guilty, and that is generally fine and should be the case. What happens is that when there are trials for organised groups and when the leader of groups is one or two and they are not available to the judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, then the trial of the entire group takes place in the judiciary of these group leaders. Legally, if the other accused are not offered a settlement at that time, which they are often not in a position to do because they fear for their lives if it is serious crimes, they fear for their family's life or not, because they are first accused who are usually the most aggressive and dangerous if I may say so. They are not available to the authorities of justice, we see for ourselves what is happening or at least what is supposed to be the police as far as we know how many murders are happening today in Belgrade. So, even when the first accused becomes available to the judicial authorities, according to the rule that has now happened and in the case of the Legion, in the case of those who have been arrested now for organised crime, Simovic, etc., they usually require that the trial be repeated, when they become available and in the vast majority of cases, so should remain, the trial is repeated for them. Officially, they gain the right to accept or offer a plea to the prosecutor, although that right is not available to anyone else who has been available to the justice authorities since the beginning. In that case, we have submitted an amendment, first of all, to wish to draw attention to such an injustice that exists, if possible, to make such a kind of injustice a correction. We didn't want to explain this to the details, we said and our amendment says that in exceptional cases it was allowed to the judicial council that and in exceptional cases if it was in the interest of the trial, of justice, to settle with the defendant and afterwards, and thus we gave all power to the court, since we know that the plea includes the prosecution and the defendant, we simply don't think that any abuse is possible, and yet we leave the court, not that we appreciate whether there is any higher interest. Perhaps the amendment could have been a little better drawn up and in that sense we accept responsibility, but we think this is a solution in the interest of everyone and follows that spirit of law that will try to make a great majority of courts do the process this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60128	The word has Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60129	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I want to apologize for the reasons for this amendment, because there has simply been a technical crowd, because one amendment has been submitted, and then the amendment has been corrected, and we have actually given an explanation for that original amendment. On this existing one that we are discussing, this amendment is acceptable to me, and that was something that has been my principled position since the very beginning, not making this bill, but since we've been doing changes and additions to the existing CAP, where a plea agreement has been introduced. At this point, I cannot accept it, for the simple reason that we have to look at whether it would violate other laws, because there are a lot of provisions to be called upon in relation to the previous provisions, if possible, and then I will certainly do it by the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60130	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 331.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60131	In Article 331, the prosecution was defined. In Article 331(3), it is defined that, if a public prosecutor does not press charges within the time limit laid down in Article 2 of this Article or does not declare that he is giving up prosecution, accused, his defender and the injured may, within the time limit, file a complaint directly to the senior public prosecutor. So there's both representatives of one side and representatives of the other side, the defendant and the defender, and we've got the damaged one. I have suggested that in the fourth solution to be adopted, the public prosecutor will issue a mandatory instructions to the competent public prosecutor that, within a specified period that cannot be more than 30 days, bring charges or inform the court that he is giving up the prosecution of the suspect. It's not just about the complaint of one party, the one that he's seeking to bring up the defendant, but maybe it's about attitude 3, it's also about the defendant and that the defendant and that the damaged person submits the complaint himself. In that sense, I felt that the solution I proposed in the amendment was more complete. I would not agree with the argument that the proposal is precise enough and that it implies a situation whose regulation is proposed by the amendment, because it does not say any obligation that the suspect, or the defendant, is finally informed that the story is finished, or that the public prosecutor informs the court that he is giving up the prosecution of the suspect to know that it is over. We've established certain deadlines, so 15 days, or 30 days, to press charges, if anyone is silent and asleep, there's no excuse not to finally get rid of it, whether it's going to be brought up, whether that story ends with a statement that he's giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60132	The 336th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60133	The purpose of my amendment is to specify the deadline for filing a response to the indictment. At first glance, harmless, but not because the defendant has the right to file a response to the indictment within eight days of the day of delivery of the indictment, and we say from the day of receipt. Our amendment stems from those provisions relating to delivery. Let's just remember that a certain written defendant may and may not accept, and in fact, from that moment on, certain procedural and legal deadlines are in progress, and that is why we have provided for this amendment so that the accused who is in an unequal position in the criminal proceedings itself will not be brought into an even worse situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60134	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 343. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60135	I suggested that the words "high court" should be added in article 343 after the word "defended" was added. It has been defined against the solution of the complaint that the defendant may state that he knows who. In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, it was called for in Article 21. Proposal for a Code which requires jurisdiction of the court in criminal proceedings. The last position states - if this code is not different, the court of senior court shall decide in more than three judges on cases which are not provided for in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Article. It is defined in article 21 and in that sense I accept the argument that it is defined. I withdraw this amendment, but not for the reasons of Article 31 or Article 21. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60136	The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 348. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60137	Madam Minister, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 142 speaks of provisions relating to exclusive judicial authority. Since the SRS believes that the introduction of the D.A.'s institute has not yet obtained the necessary conditions, it means that we do not have material -- technical conditions that our prosecutors can now take over the investigation. I don't think our prosecutors are any worse than those in America. On the contrary, our prosecutors are far more professional than those in America, but our prosecutors need to be provided primarily with special buildings, facilities, logistics support, wages, to get fully what can be accepted in the world as an institution to do business. Besides, Mrs. Malovic, there is another problem. In order for a prosecutor's investigation to be conducted, we'd have to have the court police. We still don't have the court police, and the court police should be formed and primarily staffed, and staffed by HR means we have people who will work in the judicial police with at least 10 years of judicial experience. In that case, these people can take responsibility and be trained to carry out the affairs of the judicial police on the basis of a proposal and a request from the public prosecutor. Note, Serbia's conditions have not yet been met for a prosecutor's investigation. Therefore, if a prosecutor's investigation were to be initiated, it would have to be delayed to apply this law for a longer period of time. "Vacacicio legis" to train the public prosecutor's office in the meantime. See how many rooms now have our basic and senior prosecutions. Where are we gonna put these prosecutors? Where are they going to run certain investigations? They don't have conditions. What happens now in practice? You faced one problem with reelection of judges. Now we shall have an extra judge, and the lack of prosecutors and it shall be, my concern, go to another. Now the judges are going to be looking forward to it – well, this is the case and the prosecutor's jurisdiction, and I'm just going to sign the arrest solution or take out certain actions that I've had to do so far. So, in my opinion, we should stop with this prosecution investigation. It does not need to be approached quickly because, you will see, this will not be easily applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60138	Mr. Jojic, this and the time of the authorised representative has been used. Members of the 349th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Marija Bulgarianic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60139	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that this article 349 too. The draft law on criminal proceedings puts the prosecutor in a more privileged position. We agree on a prosecutorial investigation which is a good shift in terms of improving the efficiency of the entire judicial system, but we do not have to insist at all times that the prosecutor has a much greater role, much greater importance than the other participants in the criminal proceedings. This article stipulates that the public prosecutor is giving the indictment and all that is most important in the indictment, and that the same right is not given to the express and suspended prosecutor, or damaged as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor, since they are not in a position to present the indictment or a private criminal suit, but that right is effectively transferred to the president of the council. They thus show some type of second-rate role given to them in the court proceedings, for this is a very important moment when someone who has filed a charge or a private criminal suit can specifically state what the reasons that forced him to initiate the proceedings are. Therefore, I think it would be good to change the government's position on this member's role as a subsidiary prosecutor, therefore damaged as a prosecutor and a private criminal prosecutor. This way, I would also like to mention a bad solution provided for by article 300. CAP position 2 and point 7. The law, given that in these cases it was also given the role of the prosecutor to assess whether to call the defendant or whether to call the suspect and his lawyer at the hearing of witnesses. It is a very bad practice that this legislative proposal introduces, that if the prosecutor estimates that a certain influence can be exercised on the witness, or in any way, to endanger the integrity of the witness by the suspect or his lawyer, that in that case the defendant and the suspect should not be called. Regardless of the serious crimes involved, such as organised crime and war crimes, I believe that it is still necessary for the suspect and the defender to be allowed to participate in the proceedings at that time of the trial, so in the investigation, and there are certain ways in which the court, i.e. the prosecutor, can react to any unreasonable proceedings or influence of the suspect, or his defender. At the very least, and technically, that's the problem. How will the suspect, or his defender, who has been heard until the time of the prosecution, if they did not have to be called, and has been given the right to the prosecutor to decide whether to call them or not. So that's very important. On the other hand, those present in criminal proceedings, i.e. in the investigation procedure, when they ask questions to a suspect witness or an expert, do so only with and through the prosecutor's permission, unless the prosecutor allows questions directly to be asked to the suspect, the expert or the witness. I think that is of great importance as to some kind of autonomy, the suspect, his defender and other participants, or present persons in this investigation. So we have to be careful when we bring in some, I suppose, more long-term solutions to criminal proceedings, so that somehow we don't cross that line of authority and restrictions towards the suspect, the defendant, or the defendant.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60140	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60141	This is about an extremely perfidious provision. It writes – the president of the council can also order new evidence for the main search without a proposal from parties, defenders and damaged persons. That would mean, in such a simple interpretation, that he, by his official duty, would be his regular and common appearance. But if we look at Article 15(4) referred to by this same article now, then it says that the court can give the party a warrant to propose additional evidence, or I am extremely determined to bring such evidence out, but not to establish the truth, but to eliminate contradictions between certain evidences that have already been carried out. This is not to be determined by the court's official duty to obtain evidence, because, in addition to interpreting this provision, it would be concluded, because this concept of criminal-processing law is no longer required to determine the truth at all. If this was indeed to be achieved, it was not necessary to refer to Article 15(4) in this paragraph 2. Then Article 15(2) should have been deleted, and then it would have been a completely different situation than the one you're now predicting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60142	Member of the 351st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 357 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60143	In point 3. The proposal for a law in Article 357 states that if the accused is in custody of the need for his presence, an examination of witnesses or an expert shall be decided by the President of the Council. I suggested that Section 3 be deleted, that this whole position be deleted, especially since I believe that the bill in other members defines the position of a particularly sensitive witness and the rule of examination of a particularly sensitive witness, but that it should not be excluded in principle. So, that man in custody, if we already have a whole series of provisions in the course of a prosecutor's investigation where he doesn't have to attend a certain carrying out of evidence, then at least at the stage of the main search, especially if it's not about the elected attorney, but about the defendant appointed under official duty, to allow such a person to directly participate in the investigation of witnesses and experts. Sometimes it's very important, it's necessary. For example, if the defendant is not an expert in the financial profession, and this is a criminal offence in respect of such an area, and the defendant himself is an expert in the financial profession, and he is in custody, which would not allow him to attend an examination of an expert in the area? I'm not sure this is a good solution to the proposal. For this reason, I urge you to until the moment we enter into a declaration of amendments and vote to reconsider whether this amendment should be adopted on Article 357(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60144	The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 363. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 364 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 366 and Article 366 of the amendment is the national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 367 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic and Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 370 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60145	Madam Minister, when you were gone for a short time I knew you had a cabinet session and even if that cabinet session had been held in Kosovo Mitrovica, that would be a real and good thing. Since you're quite correct when the laws are right, you're always there and you're listening, I've got one easy question for you, I'm not going to torture you. This bill has 608 members in total, and 481 pages in total, 218 is the bill and the explanation. We read it. But there's some 263 sides behind here, and that's probably for the EU, and don't send us any more, we're not interested in this. We can't read what's for those who don't, trying to stop the detachment of a part of our country's territory, but is actively working to do so. Such arguments are no longer needed by the MPs of the SRS, and they have not been yet, but here we are, to spare you all these costs. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 370 refers to measures to maintain order in the courtroom and to disrespect the court's dignity and everything else is foreseen as the first and most slight penalty of up to 150,000 dinars. We are for the court to be respected and to retain that possibility, or first is a warning, and then a fine, but to be a maximum amount of up to 50,000 dinars. When you give someone an opportunity to assess whether someone behaves properly or not, they can't get into it, and then when you leave him the possibility of being able to fine money, it's already the possibility of abuse of such a case. We had on July 26th this year when the eighth session of the National Assembly was held that one of the vice-presidents had given measures to the MPs because they mentioned the word Kosovo and Metohija, only because several days after that, a special session was scheduled on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the situation at KIM was discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60146	Time. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60147	Mrs. Malovic, this amendment is indeed aimed at correcting the text proposed in the bill. We're just pointing to the fact that it's not all about ending things quickly if it can lead to injustice, in this case and by the defendant himself, i.e. if he is denied certain rights. Take a close look at our amendment, and you will see that it allows for the fundamental rights of the accused in a situation where, because of the breach of procedural discipline, something can happen in the course of the trial, to keep him away from the courtroom. We've predicted a situation that you didn't foresee here, that, in addition to being heard with the defendant, other persons who are taking part in the proceedings may also be given statements. According to the text of the bill, with these statements, I am accused when he returns to the process, he does not have to be aware, and those persons may make certain statements that may concern the status of the indictment itself or put an additional burden on certain crimes. We believe that in addition to the fact that the defendant wishes to plead the charge, that in this situation the amended statements in his absence must give him the opportunity to prepare the defence. So, don't put everything in a position to end the matter as soon as possible and its day-to-day right to participate in the procedure and to question the defence for the purpose of the criminal code - to shorten the deadlines. Give him the opportunity to find out and make a statement about the statements and other persons who are in the process and, above all, to say that he needs time to prepare for the defense, because something additional has been put on him. Please reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60148	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 378. No one's answering for a word. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 382. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60149	Mr. Novakovic, this amendment has been submitted because we believe, Mrs. Malovic, that an inappropriate punishment, Draconical, for the absence of defenders, is appropriate, and that is why we predicted that it should be in some normal context, appropriate to the economic standard and situation in our country. Because they are citizens who make and earn a certain amount, and you know very well that the average salary in Serbia is not as much as we predict, and three times less punishment than 150,000. We believe that 50 is appropriate, because many Serbian citizens are on the verge of existence and cannot even dream of having 50,000 dinars of pay, because over a million Serbian citizens are out of work. We understand that you and all the other legislators are trying to increase the fines to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because we have a broken economy, industry, the budget deficit is already between 60 billion and 70 billion dinars before the end of the year, but this is indeed some appropriate amount in case there is a lack of defenders. Mr. Novakovic, you read this lightly, as Mrs. Komic would say – the script, and when you see and read that there is neither Mrs. Pop-Lazic, nor Mr. Krasic, nor Mr. Kragovic and all the other colleagues who have submitted the amendments, it is only because they are meeting our people at KIM today. I want to tell you, since it's your obligation to know that the Assembly Committee for KIM, which is about to begin, is scheduled at the Brnjak administrative crossing in the area of KIM, our southern province. counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, chairman of the Committee, has just told me that no MP from the government has come to the meeting of the KIM Committee he has scheduled there. So, people from the congregation service came...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60150	Thank you, but it's not the subject of the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 384. No one's answering for a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 389. No one's answering for a word. On Article 404 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 409th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Mr. Mikovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60151	I want to thank you for the amendment to Article 410 was accepted in the government report, but I would point out that it would be useful to accept the amendment to Article 409. We know what rules we're going to make by voting the criminal code. We know what kind of jurisdiction the D.A. is gonna have and that we're practically initiating a prosecutor's investigation. Article 409 defines that the prosecutor may, in the course of the main investigation, if he considers that the evidence carried out indicates that the factual situation is different from that brought in the indictment that the same prosecutor has drawn up, amended the indictment or suggested that the main investigation be terminated for the purpose of preparing a new indictment. I do not dispute that in the situation of altering the indictment in practice so far, the possibility of objecting or now responding to the indictment was not envisaged. However, if the main investigation is suspended in order to prepare a new indictment, it will set a deadline within which the prosecutor must file a new indictment. I suggest by amendment that against the charge in Section 2, when it comes to the new indictment, it can be answered, because this is not about changing the indictment, this is about a new indictment. I note that in legal practice, we have had a situation that not only the attorneys of the primary prosecutor's office but also the prosecutors of the senior prosecutor's office in the course of the proceedings are changing the indictment and the extragenous same crime. So, what happens is that the prosecutor said that it was an alteration of the indictment, it was practically a brand-new indictment. Then let's at least go where the new indictment is formal, where the prosecutor says it's a new indictment, to allow for the possibility of a response. We won't lose much time with that, and we can get a lot if we have a chance to reconsider it. We have a legal practice that often just as easily looking at the criminal council for a preliminary examination of the indictment, where the reasons for the complaint against the indictment are overrun and said – come on, you discuss it in a contradictory procedure. We come to a procedure that has been conducted for months or years, costs rise in the sky, and eventually what stands in the complaint against the indictment is confirmed either in the first degree or in the second degree judgment. Because of all of this, I think that one little intermec, where there is a new indictment under Article 2 of Article 409 in order to allow the possibility of an answer, can quickly be decided to respond to the new indictment and to proceed with the procedure if there are conditions to continue. If the new indictment itself has such errors that justify the rejection or refusal of the indictment, then let the parties be in a difficult position in that part, not that the main search is still in place and that the costs are growing. That's why I think it would be useful to accept the amendment to Article 409.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60152	Thank you. The 410th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 415. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 415. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 424, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60153	Article 424 speaks of a verdict in which the defendant is pleading guilty. That is exactly how the 1st position of this member began, but regardless, you suggested that it be called a condemning verdict. We in the SRS think it's more legally appropriate for it to be a verdict declaring the defendant guilty. Of course, as for almost all our amendments, we cannot find a common language. You don't accept our arguments and we don't think yours are yours, but these are the arguments imposed. When it comes to the verdict that the defendant is pleading guilty, what matters to us from the SRS is our deep belief that such convictions will be written, whether they will be called condemning or condemning the defendant guilty, it is completely irrelevant, it will be written to all those who have adhered to Tadic's pro-Western treason regime, and of course to Tadic himself, because by their actions and by not doing so they allow the Cypriot terrorists to set customs crossing and slowly round their Ship State. (President: Back to the amendment. ) Mr. Novakovic, I present our court of value, I state the position of the SRS and the belief that there will be such a condemning verdict against all who have done nothing to ensure that the Cypriot terrorists do not get their own state, but rather, they have made it possible. That was yesterday said by Mr Konuzin, whom the SRS, as well as the Russian Federation, is very grateful for drawing attention to you that the Russians are bigger Serbs than Tadic's treasonous regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60154	Time's up, thanks. Members of the 425th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic and Aleksandar Martinovic. No one's answering for a word. Members of the 433rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60155	As you said, the amendment has been submitted to a part called - persons authorized to make a complaint. This article stipulates that the defence attorney may declare a complaint without the special authority of the accused, but not against his will, unless the accused is sentenced to prison for 30 to 40 years. The solution is in absolute contrast with the solution set out in Article 72, where it is said that the defender is obliged to, at the request of the defendant, or with his explicit consent, say a regular legal remedy and take over other actions in the process. So these two members are in complete contrast with each other and it would be necessary to bring the text of this bill into line, if not in the essential sense, at least technically. I, as an authorised representative of the DSS, will never answer again. This is the last amendment I took my word for. The reason I've been so active is to convince you that what you're doing with the Code of Criminal Procedure is not good, that this bill deserves and it deserves very seriously to be withdrawn from the congregation procedure, or if you don't decide to do something like that seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60156	Members of the 438th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. No one's answering for a word. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 441. There are no logs in the system. The title above Articles 442 and 442 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. There's no answer for word. The amendment was submitted to the title above article 445 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. There's no word for it. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 449. No one's answering for a word. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60157	This is one of the last two amendments we have submitted. This concerns currently the question of "reformio in pejust" – rulings on the damage to the defendant if only he made the complaint. The definition referred to in Article 453, as you have proposed, implies that if a complaint has been made only in favour of the defendant's judgment, it shall not be changed to his harm in respect of the legal qualification of criminal offences and criminal sanctions. Our proposal is different, we say that the sentence is - if a complaint is made only for the benefit of the accused, the second-degree verdict, the verdict that is made by appeal, must not be changed to his harm. Why? Because if we only limit ourselves to legal qualifications and criminal sanctions, what are we going to do in case he complains about the actual situation? A second-degree verdict is passed, but it cannot be criminally, in a criminal and legal sense, to his harm, in terms of criminal sanctions and qualifications. But from the fact that he, for example, did not commit murder, as the first-degree verdict claims, but conceitedly, however, in some light form. It has no effect on criminal law, but it will have a full effect on inheritance law. So what do we do? The ban on "reformio in pejust" must be absolutely in criminal proceedings, without any repercussion, even in relation to civil law. So please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60158	The 459th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60159	This is finally the last amendment we have, and it concerns the work of the second-degree court and its verdict in relation to the adoption of the appeal of the amendment of the first-degree verdict. So, this amendment proposes to check the correct application of the law, but not only the criminal code, as the proposer here suggests, as you propose by citing Article 449, but also as regards the sentence of a conditional sentence, that is to say, calling for parole, and not questioning the fact that it is, but that an assessment is being carried out, the circumstances affecting the decision on punishment, conditional conviction, court notice and impeachment of parole. We think that if this transformation is that, which does not even specify the provisions of the law you are referring to, that it is more precise, better and more comprehensive, it actually holds water compared to the intensity of the promoter, if we understand it. Please accept this amendment as well. Indeed, since the previous amendment and this amendment, you have no harm if you accept them, they are reasonable and in accordance with the no-technical rules. I don't think there's any reason, even if this debate is interrupted, or during this debate, to do so and to propose to the Assembly that these amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60160	On Chapter 20 and on members from 495 to 520, MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jojiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60161	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, I have suggested that in Chapter 20, which refers to the shortened procedure, members from 495 to 520 are deleted. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the current law better regulated and found solutions and that it is adequate and should be kept as such. We believe that such frequent changes and changes are, above all, not effective, because in practice they have shown, especially when it comes to criminal legislation with us, that frequent numerous changes have done more harm than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60162	Thank you. The 563rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Bojan Djuric. The word is by Mr Ivan Andric, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60163	This is the second or third amendment in which we are trying to introduce a certain improvement, and we will accept the answer that the request may be too much ahead of the expectations that we should have since the amendments to this law, but we simply think that the urgency should be such that the prison sentence is not the basis for the conduct of the judiciary, nor something to rest its responsibility in this country. In a certain way, this can also be a criterion of justice, and the adoption of this amendment can be a criterion of justice, since in an indirect way, people with shorter penalties are prevented from taking advantage of the possibility of release on parole if they meet all the conditions in the course of serving a sentence. Namely, the practice so far, which we have been warned of, says that people who have small sentences, primarily punishments of a year, a year or a half or two, do not use this means, for the simple reason that it cannot be achieved to end the procedure in a fast enough way, so that they can use their good conduct, behavior and other conditions in the course of serving the sentence, and to use the right to spend the last third sentence on parole or house arrest. They are indirectly favored by people who are sentenced to prison sentences for much more serious crimes, from 10 to 20 years old and they have time to a third of the sentence, if that third is five, six, seven years, of course they will take advantage of this condition. We just wanted to propose another approach that would be even more European. According to existing practice, I will talk about the Netherlands, but I think it is a lot of EU countries, prisoners are automatically released to parole after serving two-thirds of the fines. The only way to do so is to make it impossible to do so, if they have shown in the service of punishment that they are not rehabilitated, resocialized or have committed violence in prison, etc. So it's a reverse procedure. Automism is a way out, and a court council or prison manager in the case there can prevent them from going free if it turns out they weren't suitable prisoners. Our idea is double, therefore, that a large number of people who don't serve prison sentences by what we, a colloquial dictionary, would mean criminals, so the people who have committed some acts have stopped them or failed to comply with a certain criminal procedure, so they are sentenced to a prison sentence, that they are released, and that justice and direction, that this procedure is not only possible for people with a longer sentence. We also have a complaint this time about the reason for the amendment's rejection. If you read carefully, you will see that the intention of the amendment was exactly the opposite of what is standing here in reason. It was an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60164	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 608 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The word is Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SRS believes that if, God forbid, you would adopt this bill, that time should be delayed, the vaccination legion, from adoption to entry into force. I believe that the national sense and centralized political authority are the markings of the 16th century. Someone recently said, "The tractor is not being poured into the EU or American politics." That is why we believe that we should turn to national values, respect our traditions, our professional people, our practice that has been effective so far, and that is from the seventh century to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60166	The MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted to the 608th amendment, with a correction. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has Ms. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60167	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all those who participated in the debate both in principle and in particular, I thank the Members of Parliament who have tabled amendments to us in the Ministry of Justice, but also the working group that made up the text of the bill, for trying to help us get the most effective justice system in at least the criminal part of the judiciary. For the sake of the public of Serbia, and for you, of course, I will try to sum up all of the most important newspapers that have been perceived by this bill. This bill introduces a prosecutor's investigation, which means that the public prosecutor will conduct an investigation, i.e. by collecting evidence to detect and prosecute the perpetrators. This results in greater responsibility, but also the public prosecutor's obligation to succeed the indictment. The role of the court in the pre-criminal investigation is to collect evidence that cannot be collected without a court decision. It is, for example, a secret recording and surveillance of communications, as well as for determining detentions which, according to the Constitution, only the court can determine. It is possible for the defence to collect evidence on its own in the investigation procedure, with the consent of the persons from whom they are collected, and such material may also be used at the trial. This contributes to the equality of parties in criminal proceedings. The provisions on delivery are much more efficient, which contributes to faster procedures and their economics, since it has been shown in practice that the precisely insufficiently defined delivery provisions have contributed to delaying proceedings. Then, the defendant of the defendant and the attorneys of the private prosecutors or the injured must be exclusively lawyers, providing adequate professional defence, i.e. representation in the proceedings. The application of a shortened criminal procedure for which prison sentences have been threatened for up to eight years has been extended, with five so far, which will also contribute to the effectiveness of the procedure. Special investigative techniques have been more specifically arranged and a circle of crimes that can be applied to: organised crime, high corruption, war crimes, crimes against the security of the Republic of Serbia and others. Greater application of information technologies is made possible, with a view to speeding up criminal proceedings and witness protection. For example, delivery via e-mail and testimony via video link. The application of the Code of Criminal Crimes and War Crimes is foreseen for 15 January 2012, given that there are two specialised prosecutions: organised crime and war crimes, which are largely already qualified for the application of the new criminal code and the new role of the public prosecutor in the proceedings. In the proceedings for the remaining criminal offences, the Code shall apply from 15 January 2013, in order to create the necessary technical conditions and carry out the necessary education of the holders of judicial functions and other participants in the procedure for the application of this Code. Once again, in the end, I thank you for the debate both in principle and in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60168	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill's proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This is where we finished our morning work. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break of up to 15.00 hours, when we'll begin the debate in detail on the draft criminal code. Thank you to the MPs for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60169	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the second item of the agenda, the particulars search, the draft law on litigation. Before I read who has used all of the MPs' right to submit an amendment to the draft law on litigation, a reminder of the authority of representatives or representatives of parliamentary groups and of the time available to us to search in particular. On the second item of the agenda, MPs Đorđe Milicevic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Jovan Palalić, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP of the People's Parliament Arsic, MP of the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia; MP Petar Jojić, MP of the SRS and MP Mirko Cikiriz, MP of the SES; time available for authorised representatives, i.e. the presidents of the parliamentary groups for 15 minutes; and the time of debate for the parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group For European Serbia, 93 minutes and 60 seconds, the SRS parliamentary group - 68 minutes and 24 seconds; the United regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 minutes of work – the Serbian group - the Serbian group - the Serbian group has the right to send 93 minutes and the 60 seconds to the SRS - 24 minutes to the Serbian group of business and 24 minutes to the Bulgarians - the locals - 24 minutes to the local and 24 minutes to the local population - the Bulgarians - 24 minutes to the local and 24 minutes to the Bulgarians - to the locals - 24 minutes to the locals - to the Bulgarians - 24 minutes to the local and to the Bulgarians - to the locals - to the locals - to the locals - 24 minutes to the locals - 24 minutes to the locals - to the locals - 24 minutes to the local and to the local and to the local to the locals - 24 minutes to the Bulgarians - 24 minutes to the Bulgarians - to the 11 - 24 minutes. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs Petar Jojić, Zoran Popović, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovač, Arpad Fremond, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Božidar Delić, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Milos Aligrudić, Zlata Đaržan Čalić, Dragan Čažan Žalj, Žaljović Žažaža Žažažažaž, Žilj, Žiljan Žiljažažažažažažaža Žiković, Milić Žilj, Žiljak Žiljak Žilj, Žilj, Žiljko Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žikov Žilj, Žilj, Žikov Žilj, Žilj, Žiljkić, Žilj, Žilj, Žikov ŽiljK, Žikov Žiković, Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žilj, Žiljk, Žiić and Kalić, Žižak and Kalić, K. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before we move on to the search in detail, I remind you that MP Viorel Zura, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 85. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60170	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS considers that Article 4(1) should be intervened. The word "rule" is deleted, and after saying, "public debate" instead of a comma, the point is placed and the rest of the text is deleted. We believe that the proposed solution derivates one of the basic principles of litigation and, above all, the principle of constitutionality, directness and the public. These are three principles that must be respected in the litigation process and should be consistent. The consequences would be that the court was authorized to read the witness's written statement instead of hearing it, as well as to read the expert's findings and opinions instead of listening to the expert. So, Madam Minister, it's not all the same to read a statement or to listen to a person. This would offend the rights of parties in the process, for it has been impossible to debate before the court and to question witnesses and artists directly. This particularly offends the principle of public trial as a basic constitutional principle. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted because it improves the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Popovic has tabled an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on litigation which authorises the court in its second position to decide on a request on which the opponent has not been given the opportunity to plead, only if prescribed by law. The logical question arises – what law should this be prescribed? It is something that is not defined by this attitude, to which counterpart Zoran Popovic reacted with his amendment. The court may make such a decision only if it is prescribed by this law, not by some other unnamed law, but only by a law that regulates litigation proceedings. It's not just technical, it's essential. How important is the accuracy in the handling of courts in the litigation process also an example from the LK Kolubar district, more specifically the Ljig municipality, where disputes have been under way since 2003 in numerous lawsuits over a country that once entered into the composition of agricultural cooperatives, which in the meantime went bankrupt. In doing so, the Ljig municipality does not know which prosecutor, any defendants, or when the prosecutor filed a lawsuit, but in any case, he is a loser because courts regularly rule that the municipality must pay someone large funds and block accounts. Under the judgments of the Ljig municipalities, 13 million dinars have been paid so far, since disputes are still ongoing, there is no telling how much amount will be final in payment. This is how some inaccuracy or arbitrary interpretation can result in great consequences. That is why there are many reasons to accept the amendment of MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60173	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 7 is very controversial in the law itself and I don't understand the proposal's wish. We come up with the following fact that the courts can only consider the evidence and that they only produce the evidence proposed by the parties conducting the litigation process. Does this mean that that party that is more financially powerful, which will be able to, apart from the legal representative, the power of attorney, or whatever you call for, employ other rights and natural persons who will collect evidence for that party and on this basis receive a lawsuit, not on the basis of the material situation or the fact of the case? That is why we have submitted this amendment, we have requested that Article 2 of the 7th Act be deleted and, in its explanation, the Government does not accept the amendment that, for the reason of eradicating this position, there is a legal gap in the scope of the court's powers. When it comes to carrying out evidence, I do not see which authority the court cannot have and what evidence the court should not carry out if the fact that the verdict should be based on evidence which is credible and supported by material facts. In this way, the parties will carry out each for themselves their own evidence, the court will only determine whose evidence is stronger. It's kind of funny that the court can unless the parties ask for some other evidence, but these are evidence on the issue, that the party can't come up with that evidence because they're tied to a state secret, military secret, etc. So it's just supposed to be some extension of the court's powers, but the fact is that the verdicts will not be based on material evidence, in fact, but on what side is more capable, there is more resources to collect more evidence in the process itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60175	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60176	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member may well be the essence of this law, and he is just reflecting some of our intensities where we wanted the litigation to make such a decision on the basis of the evidence available, i.e. based on what the prosecutor attaches or the defendants, or what they dispute. We have seen for ourselves that we have foreseen in this bill that the parties can adapt the skills which were not previously the case. This member, as I said, designs our intensities that went in this direction to carry out some transitions or how to say conditionally and in the judicial system and in the litigation process even though it was carried out in many areas of our society, it seems to me, as I said in the principle debate that it was not done in the judicial procedure and that it was still left in the proceedings of courts to protect social property as it was in our country when it was a dominant system of self-management. We now have a market economy that puts private property first. I am deeply convinced and the Restitution Act, which will soon be in front of this respected home, will continue to paint, of course, a contract that should be a principle of business and later, if of course we are talking about business procedures, when it comes to this, and not that we are going to have a contract derivated on the basis of party hearings. As for this particular member and the concrete amendment, I would even say that in this bill we were more flexible than the existing law and I will read the current provision, meaning a similar provision that reads: "The court determines the facts of which the decision on the basis of the grounds of the proposed and the evidence is dependent." So, this current provision in this bill, which lies before us, says that the court will consider and determine only the facts that the parties have presented and bring out only the evidence that the parties have proposed if the law is not otherwise prescribed. Of course, we had reason to do so, considering primarily family relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60177	The word is Mr. People's MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60178	I can't quite agree with you. So, the problem was that the courts were buried in litigation because citizens like to be tried. Now it turns out in relation to the first part of your exposure, that the problem of the courts is that the judges are not well, I mean that they are carrying out evidence that the parties did not request in the proceedings themselves, so all proceedings take an unlimited amount of time. I don't think you should bring this problem up because you've reformed the justice system, you've chosen the best of the best judges, at least that's what you claim. Now I don't see what the problem is with the litigation. You can't claim that the old law, or the applicable law, was stricter because the court could also carry out evidence based on its knowledge and needs, and this is how it can only carry out the evidence proposed by litigation parties. So I don't see, if you've implemented a reform, if you've chosen the best judges who are then the reason that judges are a problem in a litigation procedure, because they will, absolutely, clear everything up before they reach a verdict. Or those judges who are currently not up to it right now, but then we shouldn't be changing the law but judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60179	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60180	It is a collision of one I would say the way of thinking from the time of Tito's, self-government socialism in which citizens should sleep, and that the state or party is watching over them, solve all the problems of those citizens. Tito died in 1980, we are no longer in the single-party system, we are entering a system of market economy where for the achievement and protection of personal rights, an individual is struggling. The litigation procedure shall not be initiated by a state, party or state body initiative but by a civil suit for the protection of personal and property and some other rights and should be accompanied by evidence supporting its allegations. Until just a few years ago, until there was an amendment to the law on litigation we met countless times in litigation with so-called. naked lawsuits. Let go of the lawsuit without any single evidence, even the evidence says during the trial I will propose evidence and allegations that support the allegations of the service. What does that mean? Let the court deal, let the court decide, let the court obtain, and if the court doesn't do all this properly then I will wait for the court to find out the right and correct material truth or make some other procedural error, and then the court will answer. No, it's a completely different concept now, and it's a good thing that Mr. Arsic brought this out, because it's from an opportunity of SNS policy, one general populism in which there's room for both left and right for both titoists and for such and so on. and a relic of the way of thinking from a period that's long behind us. It is good for the citizens to get sober as soon as possible and realize that no one will protect their rights from themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60181	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60182	I would ask at least my fellow MPs to hold on a little bit. So it's not about ideology or a single-party system, it's about the Constitution, and the Constitution guarantees equality before the court and the law to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We can't put a situation where if someone likes to sue, they're capable of carrying out evidence on their own. What if someone sues you unfoundedly and has more money and can conduct a lawsuit based on their evidence, and the other apartment can't materially obtain that evidence, or you can take that evidence out. That's the problem. It's not just the prosecutor's problem, because there are two and more sides in the case. So stay away from that story about ideology, social property. Read the Constitution and you will see, these are rights guaranteed by both the Constitution and various international charters and contracts signed by the then SFRY, and we accept as heirs to continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60183	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60184	I suggested reshaping the text of article 8, because he turned a lot of things around, not good, nor properly formulated in accordance with Serbian. We have suggested that it be changed, and it is brief and clear – which facts will be taken as proven, the court decides by its conviction, based on a safe and caring assessment, every evidence of the individual, all evidence as a whole, and based on the results of the whole procedure. I think this formulation is appropriate and it might be a better solution, and it's a matter of a proposed authority whether it accepts this amendment or not. We think that he is invested in good faith and has a goal of regulating this text of the law, and with the help of the MPs of the people in a better way than is proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60185	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. The Government and the Board of Justice in the Administration accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60186	At the beginning of this amendment, I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice, because the majority of amendments proposed by the SRS were adopted by the Ministry of Justice, but also some very important amendments that we have submitted and we will discuss, and the Ministry has no understanding and we will try to further debate the problem. Most of the two key segments of our objections are highlighted through our amendments, one referred to the fact that regardless of the intensity of the legislator himself, that the procedures are being accelerated, there remained a series of indeterminations in a series of amendments relating to the deadlines for the court's conduct and I think that through the adoption of some amendments, the Ministry noticed the failures in the original text. The second series of amendments refers to our fundamental remark that the entire litigation process, this general part of the litigation process, due to the determination of the level of value of the dispute, through the revision, will be effectively derivated. This Article 10 refers to the intention and the fact that it wants to limit the duration of the procedure, in some way, to specify, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Article 10 pointed out that it must be decided, the procedure will end within a reasonable period of time and without delay, and the determination of this new timeframe, our objection was to the fact that it is difficult to imagine that the parties that have directly conflicting interests in the litigation process will be able to agree on this, that however, we limit that deadline and that it is not defined by a broad norm, which again leaves room for this procedure to last long. The Court of Justice is obliged to carry out the procedure without delay in accordance with the timeframe set out in the litigation procedure. We believe that the deadline should be limited to a maximum of nine months. It is good that the government has later accepted our amendment that in the event of a delay in the hearing, the new timeframe cannot be longer than one-third of the original set time limit. As provided for in Article 10, we don't see how long that time frame itself can last. Of course, we also consider that in our amendment, we point out that, in a specific case, we have to take into account all the facts and the proposed evidence on this preparation, in order to determine that deadline itself. That's where we want to specify the whole case. In this whole discussion of the role of the court, as we have criticised in the CAP, we think that in a litigation procedure that is completely different from the CAP, the court should really play a role for someone to consider, because it is a civil procedure, only what the parties have pointed out. It is simply a different kind of procedure and it is a good thing that at the preparatory hearing itself, what is undeniable and what is disputed and that those things that are disputed among the parties are discussed. Simply, these are the interests of the parties, the different interests of the state, than they are in the litigation process and therefore, the judicial authority itself should act in this way. The state's interest, as stated here, is that the procedure is going on as soon as possible and we feel that it should be limited in this way. As you have accepted amendments that have been made since the specific deadlines for the court's proceedings in certain situations, we believe that this one should have been limited to a specific time limit for the first-degree procedure to nine months.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60187	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is by MP Petar Jojic, using the time of representatives of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60188	Minister, this is a good solution, the only solution we have proposed, which is directed towards reducing the time limit of a litigious one. This is the most important solution in this law. Therefore, the SRS considers it necessary to introduce procedural discipline. On the other hand, this is a process deadline and this will enable those lufters who came to the judiciary – radio, not radio, to play radio. With this practice, the SRS wants to stop and that citizens can exercise their rights in court in good time. Until the judge realizes that a disciplinary procedure can be conducted against him because he has not taken certain actions, has not scheduled the hearing, has not reached a verdict within the deadline, a disciplinary procedure can be conducted against him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60189	One minute was used by a member of the parliamentary group. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, Honored Madam Minister, some New Serbia amendments have been accepted and I fully thank you for that. We thought that one of the amendments that could have been accepted was the one that we submitted to Article 11, which refers to mediation. We have proposed by amendment that Article 11 be changed and that it reads: "The court is obliged to refer parties to mediation, or to an information hearing for mediation, in accordance with the law. The court is obliged to point out to the parties that they are under obligation to try to resolve the dispute previously by means of mediation, or in another agreed way. "We have explained – we believe that in order to dissipate the courts and thus improve the efficiency of their work is necessary in a member of the bill explicitly stressing the court's obligation to refer the parties to mediation, as well as to indicate that without exception they are obliged to try to resolve their dispute with the mediator's intervention before entering court proceedings. This reduces the often unnecessary costs of the parties themselves. So, since the litigation process is something that is truly both financial and financial, and in any other way exhausts, it is necessary for the judiciary to be effective, of course, because of its greater reputation, to use the Mediation Institute and to focus more on the parties to resolve these disputes in a easier, faster and more efficient way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60191	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 25 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 13th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic and joint MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60192	It is significant that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment, because if it did not, we would have entered a series of problems exactly as we pointed out in the explanation of the amendments. So, the concepts are litigious, because it is necessary that they are litigious, regardless of what the issue of insurance houses dominated in principle, but a much bigger problem would arise because people in the same legal situation come by law, so that the adoption of this amendment removed major problems and I think it's a good thing that there was hearing about that discussion in which, lessover, all the parliamentary groups in the People's Assembly ran around this problem that day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60193	The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60194	Madam Chairman, we have tried in Articles 19 and 21 to set precise deadlines when it comes to determining local and real jurisdiction precisely because we believe that this law should regulate certain procedural norms and shorten certain deadlines, to make the judiciary faster and more efficient. Through Article 13, or the amendment that you have accepted, we have removed many problems, but I still think that it is necessary to think again about setting a timeframe for nine months, regardless of the European court or what you have called for in your reasoning. It will be much easier for us to carry out this whole procedure. We've led here precisely for 19 and 21 to keep your deadlines for eight days. It was perfectly normal. I think there's still time to say so in the voting day, and this amendment is over. In any case, much of the deadlines for determining this timeframe will be shortened, and if these amendments we have proposed become an integral part of the bill, and they are, that way the Court will commit itself to doing its job even more effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60195	It's been used for a minute and 20 seconds. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60196	This amendment discusses the jurisdiction of the court in the event that, following the receipt of a judicial solution, a court is notified to the court without jurisdiction and is referred to as the time limit necessary. We tried to convince you that in practice so far, especially because you didn't predict one situation, and these are unworkable days like the end of the week, Saturday and Sunday. It is necessary to determine for this more than three days before the case is given to the competent court, so if there is a lack of jurisdiction, because it can indeed happen that harmful consequences can arise under the proposed judicial solution because, for example, what will happen if here from today, Mrs Malovic, it is Friday, it starts to run that deadline. Then how is the prosecutor representing himself going to carry out the necessary consultations of a lawyer to act on a warrant? We think it's a more appropriate solution and you should have accepted that amendment. On the other hand, when it comes to the jurisdiction of the court, in case the party initiates a lawsuit before an indemnity court. Most of these cases will happen after this famous so-called. The reform of the justice system according to Home’s prescription, because you are very well aware that over 150 courts in Serbia have been abolished in the general jurisdiction of the former municipal courts and whether it is in the area of Shumadija and whether the party from Love or from Raca Kragujevaca, wherever there is no basic court, simply does not know which court an ordinary man should address, and then if another situation like this happens, it is a short term, we come up with something that is harmful to the functioning of the judiciary. Speaking of previous amendments, some colleagues also discussed the fact that this is very large and unremembered in some cases for the length of Serbia's case. It is symptomatic, also said counterpart Petkovic, that after the litigation of the litigation procedure, it simply disappears from the case and still cannot be scheduled for hearings. Here, we have in Kragujevac one such case where a gentleman who bought a destroyed company or part of it at a public auction. Due to some dispute that has taken place, however, he initiated proceedings before the Kragujeva court, but there is nothing in the case file and so the judge can't make any further appointments. I will also end up with a dramatic example of a lawsuit that Mrs. Comic is familiar with, as well as colleagues who are witnesses of the budget for parliamentary democracy. Namely, when 10 years ago, by order of the then chairman, the police beat up our fellow MP, Stevan Keseiæ. The criminal report he filed was rejected, however, he initiated a damages compensation procedure due to the fact that he ended up at the Clinical Centre and suffered serious injuries and was exposed as a national MP to such torture. Today we're more verbal than that. Fortunately, there is no such thing now, but the case has not been completed for 10 years. I'm going to take the opportunity outside of this to give you the number of that item and see that it's something that's really unrecorded, and who knows how many cases there are, tens of thousands in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60197	Two minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60198	As for the amendments we have made to Article 33, we would like to improve the text compared to paragraph 3 by saying "the court will", they add the words "by official duty or by party proposal". That's compared to the evidence the court needs to carry out. This should be taken into account as a reserve, unless the parties were able to propose or the parties were able to obtain certain evidence, to allow the court under official duty to determine some evidence to take it out and collect data and evidence so that citizens could exercise their rights. In addition, this insults the general public interest, due to the value of the case of the dispute the prosecutor has imposed on the prosecution, that he has paid a lower fee than is insulted by the party's right to review, because the audit is if the value of the case is 100,000 euros in dinar equivalent. Therefore, the real value of the dispute case must be determined by the court and by no one else. Otherwise, general public interests would be offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60199	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60200	In this amendment, we wanted to make an important constitutional standard relating to the right to trial more precise and concrete. Regardless of the fact that the law's proposal wanted more cases to be tried by an individual judge, this is compared to the solutions that are in the Constitution itself where this trial is set as a rule, exclusively to judge an individual judge, here the thing is reversed. It's simple, the exception is actually the trial in the council and that, as we say here in Article 35, at the request of the parties. It tries to explain how this protects the right of parties contained in the Constitution. We wanted our amendment, respecting the fact that there are disputes of this kind of degree of complexity and the level of value of the dispute that do not require a trial in the council, but we do believe that the trial for disputes concerning the possibility of renting a revision is necessary to judge the greater. I'd like to get an explanation why these disputes are treated like any other disputes that have much less value? Because to remind citizens that according to the bill, disputes where the value of 100,000 euros is marked are disputes where the revision can be declared. And these disputes will, according to the bill, be judged by an individual judge. These disputes were considered complex and complicated by the proponent himself. Why, then, should it not be prescribed directly by law that these disputes should be judged more, when they already require that degree of complexity? In that sense, we are sorry that you did not accept this amendment. Think about it because the right to rent a review has arrived at that degree that can't actually happen, but we'll talk about it in our amendments. The right to rent an audit, as you have defined here, is completely unimaginable, respecting the situation in which both Serbian citizens and the Serbian economy and the fact that in two-thirds of the municipalities today you do not have a dispute, a civil dispute, not an economic one, where the value of the dispute is marked 100 thousand. That's the undeniable part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60201	It's been used 35 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60202	Article 35. The bill states that, in the first degree, the judges judge an individual, unless the law requires them to judge a greater one. This, Mrs Malovic, is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states in its 3rd position: "Judges and jury judges take part in the trial, in the manner laid down by law." The following is said: "The law can prescribe that only judges can judge in certain courts and in certain matters." The final position: "The court judges in the council, and the law can provide for an individual judge to judge certain things." So the Constitution provides for an individual judge as an exception. And you, as you say in your explanation, are predicting the session as an exception. It can't do that. It's got to be as we've amended, that in the first degree of disputes, the bigger one, if the law doesn't require the judge to judge an individual. This is in accordance with the Constitution and in the spirit of the Constitution. Because if you put the constitutional provision as an alternative, like, leave it to a choice I don't know who, then it's certainly not good, in fact, not in accordance with the Constitution. Furthermore, article 35 says, "If a senior judges in the first degree, it is made up of one judge, the president of the council and two judges of the jury." Follow me now that I've read you your explanation of how contradictory you are. If it's an exact explanation, then you're not comfortable with this attitude, so I guess we'll discuss it. You say, "In the litigation of family relations in the first degree, an individual judge always judges, and in the second degree, more than three judges." We're not so sure you've defined yourself properly. "The judges of this previous attitude must be persons who have acquired special knowledge in the area of child rights. "All judges until they become judges are subject to family law and certainly also in the course of a judicial examination and you do not need specialists special, no judges, no courts. The position of the SRS is known, and the public knows, that the judiciary would work best if we only had first-degree and second-degree courts and in exceptional cases the Supreme Court of Serbia. What you are – special to this, for what, and now within these special special judges, it completely devises the judiciary as one of the most important pillars of every society. As long as we don't have a healthy judiciary, there's nothing to do with the development of this society and this state. What you call reform, including this law, is not to lead to healing, but even more diseased and this sick and corrupt judiciary. You're almost leaving everything to someone else. We often ask ourselves, and we tell you in public, what laws do you need when everything in the law can, it doesn't have to, if this one decides, if he suggests it, then it's not the law. Then it's a platform, a strategy based on which a serious law is passed. You say – the programme and the way in which the special knowledge is acquired, for these special forces, is agreedly prescribed by the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary and the minister in charge of the affairs of family protection. Now, it remains unclear who will determine, who will choose these Special Forces who will learn from this program that you will define. If you're the minister of justice, and you are, you're a law school graduate, and there's also a law school and besides that judicial exam, why do you allow yourself to know more than he does, so you're going to prescribe something for him? Is that logical? No, of course not. Why don't you accept this amendment? The government does not accept the amendment because the bill is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We heard, it's not in accordance with the Constitution. Our amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, I don't know what's funny, or according to the rule of trial in the choir. However, the Constitution provides for the possibility of exceptions in the first-degree procedure. Why didn't you write it like that in the law, so the Constitution would predict it like this? You didn't write it like that. I don't know if you read what was written for you. The bill in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe experts, you have moved us here, proposes an exception to the session's collegiation, and that, in the first degree of the trial, the judge is an individual. Listen further why I told you that this explanation and article 35 are contradictory. "The decision from the bill seeks to remove the problems that existed as a result of the involvement of non-professional jury judges." I'm sorry, who's responsible why, if this is true, who's responsible for why 11 years since DOS was in any form in power, and you've had the Ministers multiple times and your party, who's responsible for your judges being unprofessional, if they are, as you say, and ministers sign the appointments for jury judges? "As well as reducing the costs of the judicial authorities and the costs in the process itself resulting from a delay in the debate over the absence of a jury judge." Mrs. Malovic, I'm sure you don't believe this. Very rarely happens in practice, and you certainly know, or should you know, that some hearing should be postponed due to the absence of a jury judge. The hearings are postponed due to the very often unwarranted and unannounced absences of judges and sometimes justified, of course. Don't put problems in the judiciary on the sidelines. It's the judges' fault now, and it's not the judges' fault. It's best that the dactylographs are responsible for the delay in the hearing. This is simply not true, and God seems rather unserious and insulting to common sense and intelligence. You were when you introduced a new network of courts, and then we listened to one of your reasons, and there was a cost reduction in the area of justice. I stress that's one of the reasons. These costs, in the name of the abolished 150 courts, are not reduced but have been increased. Why? Because judges from smaller places go to work in the county headquarters, or they go to a completely different district. They're getting paid for the trip. Some of whom are far from home, have apartments paid for, right? Of course, they get paid. Now you assess whether it's a higher cost or more meaningful, and not just for cost, if you hadn't chosen that network of courts, and you hadn't lifted all these dishes in small places. Of course, we talked about it and we'll remind you of it, especially what practice showed what we talked about years ago when it was being discussed. Practice has shown and life has taught us that it is a fatal mistake. You may not admit it or you may not have the right information from the field, but believe me, fatal error. I am further reading your argument – this solution does not undermine the right of parties to a chamber trial, no matter what it means, because the parties are always at the disposal of the right to choose to judge them larger in a specific case. What does that mean? First of all, that's not what the bill says. Secondly, what does it mean that the party chooses who will judge her? It's a good thing you didn't write that the party was choosing a judge to judge her. You can't do that. It can't be that much freedom in the way the courts work in decision-making. Imagine, the party will choose whether to judge a judge an individual or a court judge. It's simply not in the spirit of our legal system, it's not in accordance with the RS Constitution, and it's quite far from common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60203	Nine minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has been reported. You want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60204	Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I think this amendment should be rejected. When we talk about the reasoning of this amendment, I cannot agree with many of the allegations presented in the light of this amendment. Firstly, I cannot agree with the fact that Serbia does not need a Special Court. And how Serbia needs a special court. The Special Court has done a huge job. All praise you for your courage to cope with all those pressures to abolish a special court. All congratulations to the people who work at the Special Court for organized crime and everything they've done to shed light on the most serious crimes that have happened and how they've happened in some previous period. All congratulations to the Special Court on clarifying numerous circumstances over the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. All congratulations to the Special Court on what he's done, fighting to survive at a time of great pressure for that court to be abolished. Also, I see no reason to criticise judicial reform and you yourself. On the contrary, I believe that you have done a huge job here, that we have faced many difficulties and that we have satisfied the expectations and the citizens of this country, and the public when it comes to judicial reform. Of course he can always do better and he can do more. Of course, every criticism is good, but it's a good criticism that says it's not good like this, but it should be. The criticism that says - nothing is wrong and you haven't done anything, the criticism that doesn't offer any solution is not criticism, it's demagogy. Of course, I must say that I am particularly pleased with what this Parliament has done, and especially with those laws that we have all adopted together as the ruling majority, voted and how they have struck down organised criminal groups, which have reformed the judiciary. I am particularly proud of the fact that, thanks to the ruling majority's votes, a law on confiscation of assets has been passed by crime. This property isn't some fictitious property, it's a legal provision that hit criminals. I believe that this law on litigation that we adopt and about whose amendments we plead, as well as the previous one, represents another step that climbs us on some civilizational achievement, which, when we look back on the next day, we will be very proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60205	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is two minutes and 45 seconds. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60206	I must say on the table of the amendment that the claim that in our legal system the parties allegedly could not agree on their property dispute, the value of which exceeds three million dinars, rather than the judge of the individual, is not true. Article 37 of Article 2 of the current Law on the Procedural Procedure clearly defines that the parties have so far had a disposition to say that in a particular procedure judges of an individual, regardless of whether there is a possibility to judge even greater. This can be clearly read in the very text of the Law on Prosecution. I can give anyone who's interested an insight into the Belgrade Law School textbook, Professor. Aleksandra Jaksic, civil and procedural law, where it is written on page 329 of the textbook. In any case, when we speak here as MPs, I think we should stick to those material truths, regardless of the fact that I do not dispute the right of an MP to claim that it is better to be tried in the council, or to claim that it is better to judge an individual judge. It is a disposition of every MP to have his position and to represent his position, to propose an amendment and to fight until the "last drop of blood" to pass the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60207	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without some desire to get too involved in that part of whether a major or individual judge should be tried in a simple case, however, in paragraph 3, this is a special situation, and I would ask the Government's representative to reconsider before deciding on the fate of this amendment. This isn't about money, houses, fields and forests, this is about people and their fates. If at all we initiate a procedure that is related to family law, which is most often when it comes to trusting children, two bodies participate, one social work centre, which gives certain opinions and suggestions to the court, and in court is that, based on its own free judgment and based on that opinion, it makes some kind of judgment. So this social work centre, at least in its own sense, is qualified for such jobs, and those working in that body, entrusted with public authority, are professionals. Now, Madam Minister, only a few months ago, the paper was full of articles about how individual social work centres sell children to protect. That is the problem and the reason why we submitted the amendment in front of the SNS to judge the larger one. If the workers of a state body entrusted with public authority are corrupt, then it is certainly a major state problem. If the manager, so the director of the social work center, is corrupt, then the question is, what are the courts doing to us? You can't convince me that the judge can't be corrupt either, because no prosecutor has called on that question and no verdict has been reached. I don't just need the papers, but I have a party complaining that her child was abducted from foster care and passed against the Family Relations Act, so we're going to check with the D.O.S. to see what's going on, but there's a reason that it's corruption. That's why we're asking him to judge a bigger one. Don't always turn to unprofessional judges, jurors, when it comes to family relations and the Family Relations Act. If it's scheduled for a judge, why not a juror, at least when it comes to this matter. Like I said, this is about people's fates, their lives. The difference is large, depending on the verdict of those courts whether the same man will be a doctor of science tomorrow, a minister, a president of the Republic of Serbia or an organizer of organised crime. That's the kind of verdict that depends on it. You have to agree that there's a much greater chance when a procedure leads to one side and one man to be corrupt. If there are jurors, there is also a delay that still needs to conduct the procedure properly and there is a greater likelihood that they will pass a verdict that is in line with the law and interests of the person to be protected along with the Centre for Social Work. That's why we've submitted this amendment and I'm asking you to think again about fate, it's not so expensive for the state, it shouldn't and shouldn't be expensive, and you can accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60209	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60210	In addition to the arguments given by the Ministry of Justice for the rejection of this amendment, which I fully agree with, of course, that in these disputes, judges are individuals, trained to resolve family disputes and in particular knowledge in the field of child rights, it is not necessary to forget that any abuses, which the distinguished colleague has spoken about, have escaped, and even if the individual judge is doing something illegal, that always in the second degree more than three judges of professionals can correct that error, and let us not forget the strengthened and extended rights for the extraordinary legal remedies provided by this law. In practice, it was the most common thing to do, with respect to judges who were not professional judges, etc., but in practice it really happened that most of the time they couldn't understand what it was about. Believe me, I only met one judge who asked a question in the debate. They're mostly people in years, pensioners, people who aren't so vital, they're not even trained professionally, who can sometimes take on some emotion, etc., and a professional judge should have a sense of justice, but first of all, he has to be a professional, they can't have positive or negative emotions to make him make decisions, because that's not a good decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60211	A minute and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60212	As for the proposed amendment to Article 37(2), the same should be improved primarily, with the words "judgment" being added after the words "if the value of the case is more than 100,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, in greater than five judges". Madam Minister, it is not logical in the second degree to judge three judges in the council, and if the value of the dispute is, when it comes to the position of the 2nd member, more than 100,000 euros in dinar equivalent, when a cassation court is due to act, at the same time as three judges. You'll agree, you know very well that in our case-law it has not been arranged so far. It is logical that for disputes over 100,000 euros in the dinar anti-value, judges in the council, in a cassation court, of five judges, not of three judges in the second-degree council and in the cassation court. Only then can it if there is no demand greater than 100,000, in the dinar equivalent of the euro. In this case, it is necessary to make differences in the composition of judges and judicial councils to be strengthened, which should be a measuring decision which should be above all a decision that should remain in force under the law and that one such decision is finally expected to be, where, where, stronger and more acceptable in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60213	The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60214	Article 41. The bill provides for a trial in disputes against citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who lives abroad all the time, to be sent to the service or to work by a state authority or a legal person, and the court of his last residence is competent. We say that here we should delete this: "where it is directed to the service or to work by a state authority or legal person", because the proposed solution does not make a difference between citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are on the official road or on the work of a state body or legal persons living abroad, from persons who have gone abroad privately and who live there all the time, for whom the prosecutor does not know where that person is, etc. But there is another problem here. You should know that a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in The Hague tribunal, that they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they are innocent until proven otherwise, if proven, and that the proceedings, the litigations that these persons have initiated or have been brought against them, cannot be conducted because you do not instruct judges in The Hague tribunal to listen there to the state of Serbia. This is how you discriminate against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The detention of the UN tribunal does not give you the right to in any way endanger their human rights and their equality with all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have more examples when it comes to the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, where there are a number of litigation procedures that either he has started or are being initiated against him because of his books, because of some allegations he has made in books, etc. These procedures are either suspended or in a drawer without any legal closure. This takes nine years, as long as Vojislav Seselj is illegally imprisoned in The Hague. I have never heard you as justice minister that you are somewhere, and you have visited the whole white world, have spoken against human rights violations of Vojislav Seselj because he is nine years in The Hague tribunal without judgment. I don't know if you're anywhere where you went to take the knowledge, if anyone ever told you there was a case in his country that someone without a conviction had been detained for nine years. I'm sure you couldn't hear it because it doesn't exist. Then I ask you -- why didn't you predict that you could send judges abroad to The Hague tribunal, to detention units? Probably other detainees, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have cases such as Vojislav Seselj. Once there was a judge of your special court, when he took a statement from Vojislav Seselj regarding the circumstances of the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Of course, that whole statement was published in the book of Vojislav Seselj and on the SRS site and the procedure was suspended, it had nothing to do with Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, but you had an interest in doing so, so you did. If a Serbian citizen, who is imprisoned in The Hague, but innocent, must have all the rights and the law and as a state to enable him, and you even discriminate against those citizens in a litigation procedure. This is inadmissible, and not only is it not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is not in accordance with any international convention. You're drilling that you're Democrats, that you're rights fighters, and wherever we wait for you, we show you that you're neither Democrats nor human rights fighters. You are selective Democrats, you are selective human rights fighters, but you are generally far from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60215	Five minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60216	As far as this amendment is concerned, we propose that the competent court of first instance may, on its own behalf, submit a request to the highest court of a particular type, determine that in certain cases the second really competent court, if it is obvious that it will be easier to carry out the procedure or if there are other legitimate reasons. The proposed solution is contrary to the Constitution and directly contradicts the provisions of Articles 32 and 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the proposed solution makes it impossible for the parties to access the highest court, which should decide on the party's proposal for a delegation of the other really competent court. It is clear and clear that, according to the proposed solution, the court in charge of the first degree, such a request will either refuse or reject it, so it cannot reach the highest court. The amendment gives a clearer and more precise formulation and, on the other hand, it makes it impossible for citizens to come before the highest judicial system body, i.e. to the Supreme Cassation Court. That's our idea. We think our proposal is in line with Articles 32 and 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60217	Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 63rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 67th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60218	Thank you, Madam Chairman. By the time we entered this series in 62 and 63, I was sincerely hoping that an amendment to Article 67 would be accepted, because we suggested that a part of Article 2 be deleted in this article which allows judges to, if they have up to 3% of the capital in a legal person, then they can approach the trial. We really wanted to eliminate the possibility of any abuse. We believe that if the judge has a number of actions and discusses a case, the question is not that he may be biased but that he will certainly be biased. Until I read the government's argument, I'm sorry I was wrong. We were thinking that if the shareholder is in a legal person, in a company that has a million-euro capital, let's say, it's 3.5% 30,000 euros, it's already a serious sum, but we completely overlooked this pre-election promise of 1,000 euros per share, so we didn't include it in this amendment. Since it is a few hundred dinars, as divided so far by Serbian citizens, it writes 3%, does not write textically, but is a label and in a minute we will add another circle and make up to three proms and it fits into those few hundred dinars of free action and then there is no problem with the judges and any conflict if they are forced to judge any of these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60219	The 67th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60220	When it comes to the judge's exemption institute, in Article 68(2), we propose that in the first sentence of this position the same change is made and that "when the party submits an exemption, the judge will stop the proceedings and immediately inform the parties and the president of the court who will decide on the exemption". Madam Minister, I will read you the provisions, as the exemption institute is regulated in Germany. In Germany, when a request is submitted to a judge at the hearing on the grounds of a mere suspicion of bias, the judge must record it in the record and the debate shall be suspended. The records shall be forwarded to another judge who shall be the deputy judge on an annual basis. That deputy will decide on an exemption request. They say they've regulated it because it's more effective and it doesn't have to be decided by the president of the court anyway, but it can be done by another judge who replaces it. And the judge whose exemption is sought must draw up his statement of copies delivered to the party requesting the exemption. And it is given time to take a position on that plea when the judge's term expires, the deputy decides on the request. You see how well they've arranged. ATZ means an Austrian civil code that has been applied since ancient times and in Germany still. And in 1929, we took over the provisions of the Austrian Civil Code, and based on that code, we are this applicable law on litigation. Here's how this solution is regulated. It's complicated with us, and this is simple. And the judge can't take over any of their stores. He can't, he can't, he has to stop, and don't let the judge do it. He's going to decide on an exemption. Secondly, for one exception to be sought, you can see there may be one reason today at one hearing that the judge is suspicious or is his godfather or relative, you know, to whom judges or some other circumstances are suspicious and you file for his exception and it is finally. And what we're going to do when later it becomes known about other underlying reasons that justify the basis that it must be an exception and therefore, Madam Minister, this is an improvement in the text and how. With regard to Article 10, which applies where you have not allowed more judges to walk and go to tourism for counselling, but if he has not acted under his authority, he is considered a disciplinary offense and a disciplinary procedure is being initiated. This ended in a law on litigation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60221	One minute and 20 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Justice Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60222	Article 72 and the amendment we submitted to this article is a follow-up to what fellow Jojic was saying in previous members, but here's a reminder. So, you're saying in Article 72 that when a request for the disfellowshipping of a judge or an exemption is filed at the hearing, that the judge will finish the initial hearing until the motion for exclusion and exclusion is passed, the judge will take only those actions for which there is a risk of delay. The SRS advocates that if a request is made to exclude or exclude a judge from the hearing, it cannot take any more of the only procedural action. You're saying you don't accept the amendment for the reason that the bill's solution is more appropriate to the concept and the essence of the proposed solution. Of course, your concept, your essence is more appropriate, but we are trying to bring down your concept and the essence of what you have suggested to us. You say, the proposed solution prevents abuse by parties which, by applying for an exemption or exclusion, aim to delay the proceedings. It is absolutely true that the parties in the proceedings are seeking an exemption from the judge in order to delay the proceedings for reasons appropriate to them. It's not disputed, but it's questionable why you're nowhere in any of these 100 reasons, and I don't know how many amendments, you're not questioning the possibility of abuse by a judge. Is the only judge unmistakable in the state of Serbia. They can abuse jurors, they can abuse warlocks, parties can only judge holy cows, they can't. It doesn't make sense and it's not normal. And even if you chose a really real good judge, and not party staff, you wouldn't be able to guarantee that a judge can't make a mistake, every living man, every one of us who works normally is bound to make a mistake. But, no, the party can abuse, the judge can't. The party may abuse the request for exceptions is not disputed, but the judge may continue the proceedings and conduct some procedural actions from the moment when the request for its exemption is highlighted. You further say, the proposed law does not violate the rights of parties, given that the request for exclusion, or exemption, will be abolished, and I will now read exactly how it is stipulated in the law, how can you say that you do not in this way endanger the rights of the parties, you are firstly jeopardizing the right to an effective trial. Request for an exemption if it is pointed out it is resolved within 24 hours, the judge, if the exemption is made, the request for an exemption from the judge, the President of the Court shall decide whether or not he accepts the application. If it is the Supreme Court, then do it in the next 48 hours, it is much less lost if you do not accept our amendment where we have suggested that paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article be deleted 72, because you say, therefore, in the follow-up to this position 1 where you said, that the judge will continue this hearing even though the request for exemption is highlighted and you say – if the request for exclusion is adopted, the court will abolish all actions taken by the disfellowshipped judge. If the request for exemption is adopted, the court will abolish the actions taken following the application, unless the parties agree not to suspend the actions taken. In the event of an application for exclusion or exemption in the course of the hearing before the Second Instance, the provisions of Article 1(3) of this Article shall apply. You don't do anything to the parties here, on the contrary, some procedures will have to be doubled, some legal actions during the process will have to be doubled, if the request for an exemption happens, if it happens, is adopted. But you know that accepting an exemption request in the Serbian judiciary is just a letter on paper. I don't know if anyone's in their practice, there's a case, there's no case here, there's no regrets in the O.R., but there's a lot of lawyers in this House, to see them tell us how many times their request for a judge's exemption has been accepted. It's simply not done, because the judges of God are given, because judges are infallible, who can say to seek the exception of the judge, God forbid, woe to him in the follow-up of the proceedings. We have a lot of experience in the SRS where we're completely justified, rightly justifiedly looking for a judge's exception you think we've once received, that we've received a request. Of course not, I'm going to give you an example at the time of the Fifth Municipal Court and Judge Danko Lausevic, who tried to sue. The defendant was Vojislav Seselj, and Prosecutor Stanko Subotic - Cane. It was a time when Stanko Subotić - Cane was a respected businessman, when he was respected at your place, when he bought those kiosks, Futures, business premises "Electrotechne", then for the great money on Prince Michael's street, etc. Then Stanko Subotić was a respected businessman for DS and then he sued everyone he mentioned, then Vojislav Seselj said and wrote a book that Stanko Subotić - Cane, the king of the tobacco mafia and then was tried for it and that Danko Lausevic judge, of course, just so I don't forget to mention that today you also think that Cane Sobotić, the "King of the Duvan Mafia" and that today you are chasing him, chasing him, I don't know where you're hiding in Geneva, etc. He was untouchable then. Mr. Stanko Subotić – Cane, otherwise Cane – Žabac, and then Judge Danko Lausevic, of course, took the wrong completely, began the procedure without the parties, the hearing, and Zoran Krasic and I were present in the meantime, after he had started and in the middle of the debate, his mobile phone rang, the procedure lasted, and he answered loudly on his mobile phone and said – hey, I'm sorry, love hurts my tooth. So, I'm talking about the character and the work of that man. He received a request from the Fourth Municipal Court to send a file of the case, as Stanko Subotic sued Vojislav Seselj on several grounds. We hold the promotion of the book in New Belgrade, we hold the promotion of the book in Likovec, and he sues the court in Lykovec. The fourth municipal court asked for case files, and that was in 2002, and there are still no case files, and you Danko Lausevic, we talked to you about this, you promoted him, and now he's the Supreme Court judge. And we then asked for his exemption back to the amendment, and whether or not the request was accepted, it's not of course. He could do whatever he wanted. Now, let's say, by some chance, he's accepted a request, all the procedural actions he's done, he'd have to have some normal judge do it later, but he hasn't been adopted. Even though you are here, as in that CAP a little while ago, where you are repainting the Anglo-Saxon law and the law applicable to the UN tribunal, if that is even the right one, and of course it is not, because there the rule changes from case to case, it depends on what kind of need arises in a court council, and even this UN tribunal, but it does according to your prescription, or you according to his. In the case of Vojislav Seselj, the Hague tribunal excluded Judge Harhof from the trial, on a proposal by Christine Dahl, because he was in conflict of interest. On the other hand, Vojislav Seselj seeks the exception of Carla Del Ponte, because she wrote the indictment at the request of Zoran Djindjic, and later she confirmed it herself, and there is no exemption there. I'm talking about what's written in the law, not to be applied, if it's written like this, as you write, round the corners, it may and may not, depending on the will of the judge, depends on the will of the President of the Court. There is no precise provision for justice, and when there is nothing from justice, crime of flowers, corruption of flowers, on all sides, from the top of the state to the lowest and you are aware of it. After all, you trust your European friends very much. We don't believe anything, we just trust them that our government is in corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60223	Ten minutes and 55 seconds since the parliamentary group's time have been used. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60224	I can't agree with the claim that there are no cases when there's a judge's exception. I can confirm from the practice of the courts in Panchev, that not so rarely did I happen to be a judge, when he thinks there are reasons for the exception, when there are circumstances that question his impartiality, that he himself asks to be excluded from a particular case. In particular, I know in one case, Judge Sindzic Ljiljana, in Pancev, precisely in the case where he was to judge someone who went to class with her, did not want to judge and asked for an exception. It's not the only example, there's a lot of such examples. I know this specifically, but I have to say, out of 100 and more lawyers working in Panchev, there must have been a lot of cases like this. In any case, I wouldn't make such a claim that there are no cases of exceptions or exclusions, just need to check the practice, possibly statistical data and come out here with them. I know about this practice in Pancheva, I suppose that's the case in other places in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60225	It was used a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60226	There's no reason not to trust a colleague who mentioned a concrete example and a concrete judge. Well, it happened in Panchev, but even if it wasn't disputed, that it was happening, and whether it was more practical at the moment to interrupt all the shops and wait a few hours for the judge to decide or waste time, to waste energy, to finish some procedural activities, and what happened in that case, and the judge's lady you mentioned. Now what? Did that judge interrupt all the proceedings or was she waiting for her exemption to be granted? Talk about what's practical and what's not practical. Why should it take several hours, the hearing takes place, and that is the exception mentioned by counterpart Mikovic. His exception, for example, is in favour of the acceptance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60227	A minute and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60228	In Article 72. The bill said that until a solution to the request to exclude the judge's exemption will take only those actions for which there is a risk of delay. My people, it's better to suffer one damage if there's a delay. I think the solution to the bill is better than the solution proposed by the amendment. I allow someone to have a different opinion, but I still think that the solution to the bill allows the procedure to go further, because what if an exemption proposal has not been set up and we miss that action? Maybe some evidence is being re-produced or some shop needs to be done. Are those extra costs? I think that the bill provides a solution, if justified, please, from the moment of the application for exemption, these actions are not recognised or in case of exclusion from the beginning, and these are the first reasons provided for in Article 67. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60229	It was used a minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz, and the messenger of the people John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60230	I didn't mean to answer, but I think it's really necessary because the Institute, or the procedural possibility of dispensing judges, is the most convincingly exploited institute in abuse of procedural powers, both in litigation and in criminal proceedings. You know, defendants in litigation, accused of criminal proceedings, don't have much room for maneuvers, but that's why their attorney or defender says, don't worry, first we're looking for the exception of the president of the council or the judge of the individual, and then we're looking for an exemption from the President directly from the High Court, and finally we're looking for the exception of the president, or the judge of that court. By the time it's all decided, we'll be on time. This is exactly the kind of proposal legally prevents that, although there is a request, I am not going into it now whether it is founded or not, the actions and jobs that are started that do not suffer a delay and predicts the possibility of what if the request is established means simply to put an end to the action, if it is not established we go further and then everyone who has an evil intention, an evil procedural intention, and such is 99%, in the beginning knows that their request for exemption will not make any sense if it is unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60231	The minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the MPs' group's time. The Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic, and the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60232	Well, I really had to get involved in this debate because we can't just look at it from the point of view whether something produces abuse and statistics on it. To apply for an exemption implies a certain suspicion that a judge can be biased and it is not a matter of being said here to take those actions that are at risk of delay, but rather more dangerous that the judge will finish the initial hearing. So, at the beginning of the hearing, he simply highlights the request for an exemption. The hearing may have provided for a series of means of proof to be carried out and the hearing is completed and the subject of the exemption to be decided. What if he's adopted? Where's the time savings? Why are we leaving the assumption that most of these demands will be rejected? Of course, we have heard statistics that they are mainly because of the solidarity of judges are mutually rejected, except for the honorable exceptions mentioned by fellow Mikolic, that the judge in the beginning does not want to put himself in a position to be under suspicion of being biased. In addition to the possibility of abuse, I would like to take the general view that the request for exemption implies a certain suspicion and should be terminated at that time. What is the problem with a relatively fast solution, and will it slow down the process if the request is adopted? So what do we do? Who will bear the costs of re-implementing, bringing witnesses as we have now fallen into one complete mess after this reform of the judiciary? I assume you're all witnessing that the witnesses are traveling from one place to another. Who's gonna make it up to you, that's not settled here. Well, he'll make up for the state unfortunately. Then what's the problem? The state is causing itself a problem. By understanding the intention that the Proposer had here, that this would save time, I'm afraid that not only won't save time, but there will be additional costs that no one here is thinking about. Often these requests for exemption are justified, and now that the hearing is completed, I am talking about a provision that speaks of actions that exist in the event of a delay, rather than the end of the hearing. That's much more serious. They'll be producing extra costs. Return to this solution that has now been – an exception, the judge reads, and this moment brings a solution to the termination of proceedings and the end. This is a completely unnecessary complication and unnecessary delay in things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60233	Two minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet Verica Radeta, and Srdjan Mikovic the Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60234	I must note, too, that the arguments made by fellow Chikiriz again speak in favour of the acceptance of our amendment. You're saying, fellow Chikiriz, that they applied for an exemption just to stall. Where does this Article 72 prevent the parties from applying to delay, if they want to, and how long can it delay? Now, when this law hasn't been passed yet, 90% of the parties in the process know that the request for exemption won't be passed, but there's some reason, so one day, two days or five days that the whole circle you've been talking about is over. Also, for some reason, they'll be okay with it now. There is no guarantee like then, nor by this law nor by the future, that it will be or will not be accepted, but we are talking about legal consequences. There are much less legal consequences if the moment the request for exemption comes out, that all actions are interrupted, to be said – we interrupt the hearing, we have an exemption request. That could be over by the end of the day. What happens if the procedure highlights a request for a temporary measure? The judge better under that request for his exemption to bring a temporary measure. How will you repay the consequences of this temporary measure that can arise? Simple, practical reasons, Mrs. Malovic. Believe me, this amendment will do a lot of good, as much as you think it is banal, but when we did a discussion about this, I guess you followed us, then you see that even colleagues who would vote for this law have no serious arguments. All that they have stated are actually arguments that this amendment should be accepted. Now, whether the President of the Court is going to stall to decide on a request for exemption, it's already a matter like the President of the Court, and since 90% of the Presidents of the Court are officers of office, you know, how many years has it been since we've had the judiciary in control, it's again talking about something else, it's about the judiciary holding on to a sigh because the presidents of the courts who are in the Wood have to strictly listen if they're not good won't be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60235	It was used three minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60236	There is no possibility that, if we adopt the draft law on litigation, any volunteering of the President of the Courts will occur when they decide to exclude or exclude. Article 71(1) is explicit – the request for an exemption shall be decided by the President of the Court no later than three days from the date of submission of the application. That's the first one. There's no possibility of a different one. That's what the law says. The other thing is, we have a preconceived case, we're trying to get certain witnesses or artists or anyone to the hearing, to the main hearing to be heard. Finally, this is done, and one who is not interested in the speedy settlement of the dispute at the moment they finally came to the hearing, they say – we are looking for an exception. Is that justifiable or not justified? Or, such a witness who does not have to be from the same place as counterpart Palalic pointed out well, could be from another place, could be out of the country, the question is whether in three days, five days, or when the new hearing is scheduled, is it possible to approach? So, who wants to obstruct and not conduct a hearing of witnesses who are on temporary duty in this way, if the moment of stay in the country stands out, is seriously obstructing the process. That's why I think the proposal in the bill is good. If the request for exclusion or exemption is shown to have been justified, all of the hearings of that witness, that expert or any other evidence carried out, please nicely, and the actions shall be abolished. What am I telling you? These people who need to be heard or some evidence to be carried out, they're already in court. Here he spoke to the motion for exclusion or exemption at the hearing itself. It is not spoken in advance, because if the proposal is made in writing before, then there will be no appointment, or there will be a delay in the scheduled hearing. There's no mistake on that side. Personally, I think that with, I say, the possibility of taking out arguments both for and against, I think that what was proposed in the bill is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60237	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60238	So the witness is in court. He was questioned using your arguments and it turns out that the request for exemption was justified. A request for exemption shall be accepted. This hearing is being annulled. How's that witness gonna come back? Will he consider the court inconclusive then, much more than if he did, enter the courtroom, or wait in front of the courtroom and then be informed – the judge's exemption is requested, excuse me, Mr. Witness, we will call you when he decides upon this request? It works much more seriously than you listen to a witness and say, "Thank you, Mr. Witness, for coming, to say goodbye and informing him in three days. Excuse me, you joked on me that day, come again. So, unseriously, I repeat again and address myself now, first of all, Madam Minister, believe me, very justifiablely, adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60239	The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60240	Thank you. I have listened carefully to all the discussions of the MPs and I want to say immediately that there are parts with which I agree, unrelated to whether the discussions were for or against this amendment. In one theoretical sense, I could agree with this amendment, that maybe that's how this issue of exceptions should be arranged, that the practice didn't force us to be very careful and try to rule out the abuse of party rights in the process. Unfortunately, we had a situation to be very often, especially in the executive procedure, I know that this is a law relating to litigation, but I have a need to mention it too, in an executive procedure, where precisely because of the request for an exemption, and not only by the judge in question, but it has always been done in such a chain to seek the exception of both the acting judge and the president of the court and the president of the highest court, in conclusion with the president of the country's highest court, so that something is delayed and not delayed for a later term. So if this amendment were to be adopted, I simply have a concern that such things would happen, so that the requests for exemption would be directed right at delaying proceedings and favouring one side of the procedure. On this occasion, although it wasn't part of your discussions, I simply need to give you one piece of knowledge, because the facts relating to the exclusion or exemption of judges can be on both parties and judges themselves. There was one case in a court in southern Serbia, it was a legacy, it was tried for several years. A few years later, a request for an exemption agreed even by a judge, and where it was stated that there was a close link with one of the parties to the procedure and that it was a friendly relationship, the neighbour was the judge together from the parties. Her exemption is allowed. Why am I telling you all this? After that, she goes to the high court. According to a complaint in the procedure, it is a member of the council and participates in the decision-making process. It was the subject of reviewing the High Council of the Judiciary. The judge has not been elected and this is also found in the re-trial. I want to tell you that the facts relating to the exemption can relate both to the judges and to the parties. I've expanded the subject of your discussion a little bit, but I had a need to present it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60241	Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60242	Madam Vice-President and Mrs. Minister, what Mr. Mikovic pointed out, it is not disputed that Judge Ljiljana Sindzic in Pančev is concerned with the honorable, safe and responsible judge. If we had judges like Ljiljana, in that case we wouldn't have cases like this for exceptions. There's also a delicate question to ask. The Germans weren't naive either. I have to mention again. You see as they say - the request can be filed by the judge orally at the hearing, because of the very suspicion of bias, the judge must record it in the record and the debate is interrupted. All these stories that were from fellow Mikovic I don't think they match and we can't possibly comply with the right of a country that has developed its right to be smarter than them. Neither are they, Madam Minister, so naive. If they hadn't thought about witnesses and witches and this, and that, they had court practice from both experience and come up with such provisions. I can tell you, who appreciates it? When you are now in one court to seek exception at the judge's hearing, imagine, Madam Minister, who is it that appreciates that he can take certain actions that do not suffer a delay? He appreciates it. He can't appreciate it. It can be appreciated by the President of the Court, it can be appreciated by other judges, but he cannot appreciate that moment. He says: For the exception, the judge will take only those actions for which there is a risk of delay. I wish there was a standard of what is a danger of delay and who appreciates it. If you leave it to the judge who judges, please, when he did not want to excuse himself as Ljiljana Sindzic in the case, then there is no other, he continues to be doubted and that suspicion should be removed, any work in the case interrupted, delivered to the President of the Court. There is even a procedural action to immediately deliver this request to the President of the Court, even he can resolve it the same day. Minister, this shortens your procedure, because if you allow the judge to manipulate it, he says – I think it is necessary now that I join this and that case from the office, make an insight or threaten to delay it because I am now going to call on the phone to get an expert, so that he finds and thinks of an expert, past the call, and in practice, that he comes as soon as possible to give an opinion and when he gives his opinion, I will interrupt and deliver the files to the court. Now you with this new, derived evidence from the moment the exemption was sought until the moment the solution was reached on his exemption or until he found out about the exemption or when he received the request for exemption, there were two things, when he found out and when he received the request, and this at the hearing, and he found out and there was already a request in the record. You've solved the good solution, the problem of speeding up the process. The SRS is on the side of the promoter in all the standards relating to the acceleration of the procedure, because we also want citizens to exercise their rights before the court as soon as possible. It doesn't occur to us, as a lawyer, I've never allowed nor will I allow a delay in the proceedings. Imagine what Mrs. Verica said, it is known, the interim measure by that judge, the other side says – I bear the exception, you say – please, I object, but I suggest that a temporary measure be taken. And you bring a temporary measure. The temporary measure shall be recorded and placed on motion, and that man shall die until he has taken the note of the temporary measure. The moment, less will be the request for an exemption, the moment when the judge, if he was safe and responsible, and is not biased, when the party sets up a request for an exemption, he interrupts, it will be easier for him, easier for the parties, and the President of the Court decides, it is his jurisdiction. This practice when introduced in one court and how it will be applied and the citizens will know, and the lawyers will be drawn up. What Mr. Mikovic said, there are a number of cases where a lawyer is not responding to what was carried out at the hearing, is not responding to something, or the judge has turned a bit of a shift, the judge is questioning witnesses, and in the course of an examination of witnesses, you can clearly see that he is rooting for the verdict, directing the case as he will judge. That's the problem. Disable him. Because if it is determined that a request for exemption has been established, let's go "Jovo, again", everything he's done in three years, not only did that day, but if he's been running a lawsuit, don't God, for 40 years, and that case exists, and that four lawyers have died, and that the parties have died, and the heirs and the day-to-day litigation. So, Madam Minister, if we do not want to allow a delay in proceedings, which is the purpose of this law, as far as I understand it, go ahead, adopt those proposed standards that are effective and prevent it from being manipulated by lawyers, and on the other hand, to force the judge to be biased. It's just, I'd give even more authority to some authorities, according to the Rules of Procedure, to control what the court does. If someone had controlled the court, this Belgrade lawsuit at Vracar would not have been conducted for 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60243	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60244	I cannot agree with the view that this amendment should be adopted. Again, I must say, acting judge, it is easier for him to stop working that moment and say, "Come on, Mr. President of the Court, decide whether you need an exemption or not." So if the amendment were to be adopted, who could suffer the damage? The other side, not the one looking for an exception. That's what this is about. I must say that I am extremely pleased and happy that my colleague Jojic has an extremely high opinion of all the elected judges in Serbia. Because he claims that every elected judge in Serbia, and if a proposal for exemption is submitted, he will work with all his heart to perform all the actions he can perform at the hearing. I think it's human that anyone who works, if there's any doubt of impartiality, that any acting judge will be really restrictive to watch what shop he's still doing, because it's easier for him to conclude the hearing and say he's going home or into the cabinet, than that he's sitting for another half an hour, an hour or three hours, to perform evidence, the one for which there's a risk of delay. But he's threatening the danger to the other side that some evidence isn't brought out and that he's threatening to delay. So, just because of all this, I think it's useful to keep this proposed solution as it was given in the bill, not to adopt amendments. I've got one more thing to underline. All of us who are discussing here, I think we've made it very clear to Article 67. It's a bill of law. There's one in point one. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 definitely state the reasons for the exclusion. These are some facts that are absolutely verifiable, based on material evidence. Only, on the matter of the exception itself, if there are any other circumstances that doubt its impartiality, there remains to a certain extent a free assessment by the President of the Court that, in all circumstances, it assesses whether there is a doubt of impartiality or no doubt of impartiality. It is normal that all these reasons will be considered, because there is always two-stage decision-making, and even if there is a judge who is considered to be impartiality, it is all subject to review by regular legal remedies and in certain situations and by emergency legal remedies. In any case, I believe that the bill promoter has seen this well and that the proposed solution is really going towards preventing obstructions in the work of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60245	It was used three minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60246	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only be persuaded by my esteemed colleague Mikovic if he could prove it to me and assure me that there was no reason for 800 judges to get rid of it. Were there those among them who should have been relieved long ago? Were there any gods among them? Were they among them in the same city, town or town, that the president of the court had a judge, a brother-in-law, another daughter of the president of the law enforcement authority, and in this town was first established by the family government? What are we gonna do next? Tell me, was there any reason or doubt? I didn't say I was satisfied and I'm sure because I didn't take part in it, but were all the judges elected in the Republic of Serbia elected, and were they the ones to be chosen? I suppose those who are good judges and good prosecutors should be elected. But it remains unclear – why was 800 judges released, if you think that each judge was impartial and objective and that he was not corrupt, with lawyers, with the parties and the rest? Do you think the Ministry and others may not have any data that no one has been chosen for? I can't claim any, because I don't have that kind of knowledge, but there's already a huge number of people who can say that, and I didn't say either. But all of this leads me to the conclusion and points to a tendency to shut down every moment. Do you think the Germans are silly what they said – the procedure is interrupted. If I were to say that about a German, then I'm really incorrect. I agree with a solution like this. This is effective and there is no doubt there, colleague Mikovic. For me, it is better to break the procedure, both for him and for the parties, so that the party who was evil should, when the debate is concluded, weigh the costs of the matter in the decision-making process, because it has delayed the hearing for the exception. So I'm not sure and I'm asking the minister to consider this and adopt it the way it is in other countries with a developed legal system. Turn it off the moment it's due, there's nothing more he can do about it. You will have a clear situation and you will have someone to call on – you have French, German, Italian and Swiss justice. That's where it shuts down that moment. If we're smarter and we think we're doing what we're supposed to do, and we want to improve and speed up the litigation process, we're going to speed it up by interrupting every single one of his participations. Well, it's an honor to find that there was no basis for reason, so we stay and finish the story. This is a dangerous thing and this is very important. Enter it into the law, as you have in the law installed that standard, which is good, which is that for the first time in the history of the Serbian judiciary you sanctioned a man judge who does not meet the conditions laid down for him. Secondly, it is a good norm and a proposal from the institute that you allow for the first time in the history of the Serbian judiciary to be introduced by a technical representative, i.e. A legal representative, that a citizen who is the opposite side can stand up to an expert and a witness and ask him cross-questioning questions, face him. Namely – clean evidence, clean bill, long love. And there's no one to object to. He can complain, but all his arguments have been taken out of his hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60247	Four minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60248	I know that one number of judges has been resolved and that's been decided in this assembly, as far as I know. About some large numbers of judges being cleared, I don't have that information. I know that in the general election procedure, a number of judges received the trust of the competent authorities who decided on it, and we can discuss it. I think all those judges who were relieved, that they were the reasons for the resolution, as I recall during the term of office as a MP, even in that other building, a number of judges were resolved and decided by the National Assembly. Is that right? Otherwise, as far as the bill is concerned, I remain in the view that a good solution is in the draft law, and I suggest that no proposed amendment is adopted in the voting day. I think the bill provides an opportunity to prevent any abuse in the process and in this way I believe that both parties are protected in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60249	One minute and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The Messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz has a word, and the messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60250	It's really very short. The explanation given by the minister goes in favour of the discussion I presented, as this institute is precisely the most procedural abuse and such a legal proposal for these types of abuse stands in the way. Another question is raised, which is practical and which can really produce some consequences - what if the judge, the example, works, after requests for exemption, adopts a temporary measure, etc.? Very soon, this temporary measure will be lifted. It is not true that the person to whom the temporary measure has been imposed and who suffers its consequences will not experience the suspension of the temporary measure. Secondly, if the court's decision has caused damage to the party, then, according to the general rules of compensation and damages, it will also be able to achieve the right to compensation for damages. I really enjoyed listening to a recently respected colleague, Peter Jojic, who spoke as a true European, calling for the best institutes of German, Italian and French legislation. It is precisely our desire, from the Serbian Renewal Movement, as the European right and only right in this ruling majority, that these best institutes, and best European values are not only installed in our legal system, but also in our socio-economic and political life as a whole, in order to be the best for us because, according to counterpart Jojic, not the German crazy when he installed these institutes, he knew well what he was doing. The Germans are one of the founders of the European peoples' community.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60251	A minute and forty seconds have been used since the MPs' time. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60252	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't work here to be a European, so I don't meet all the criteria. I am not like myself because I am against the European Union, but you are against the European Union when their rights do not apply their recommendations. Was this a finding, an institute, just from one of the members of the European Union? But I was not invited to the European Union at the time, but to the state, its state office and, above all, their reform and their legislative system. There's no talking, there's nothing to do, that I'm a European. That's Tom Nikolic, you or what I know. I don't meet the conditions. Here, my colleague, he's the only one who can go to Europe, I can't. Look, I've estimated that the European Union is not being poured into the tractor. What can I do? It's not working, buddy. But I must say it is necessary to install this provision into our legal system, Mrs. Malovic. If this stays as suggested, we have a delay in proceedings. Imagine if a lawsuit was conducted for ten years, and I have litigation that's been under way for 30 or 40 years. Now one judge, who led, say, a ten-year lawsuit, and what do you think if he was found to be the best man on the opposite side? Then what are you going to do? And you don't have a godfather in the bill that's one of the reasons for the exception. Why doesn't Mr. Mikovic say what he's going to do if he finds out after ten years that the judge who ruled on his damage and ruled on the dispute and succeeded in the lawsuit, and he's the godfather of the judge? He's out of the law. So what do we do? Turn this off, please. You help the judiciary and you shorten the procedure. We just, whoever, if it's an effective right, we're going to accept it, and we have no reason, because our rights are civil, relying on the AGZ. If that is true, and Germany is applying the AGZ and its standards since 1929 and beyond, we are applying and installing our legal system. Therefore, this will lead to a delay in proceedings. It's against the Serbian Radical Party and I'm against it. Wherever it's possible to delay the proceedings, let's interrupt, put an end to it, let's not allow any single possibility of manipulation. I said, if there's a judge's verdict after 10 years in favor of the godfather, then what are you going to do? Then you can see where the case is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60253	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National Messenger Srdjan Mikovic, then MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60254	In a concrete case, the same will be with the adoption of the amendments and without the adoption of the amendments. I'm talking about this particular case, if it's misjudged. That's one thing. The second thing is said: if the court adopts a provisional measure, i.e. by the judge acting, it shall adopt a provisional measure, and the provisional measure for the case of a justifiable request for exemption will take three days, because within three days, the representative of the court should decide on the request for exemption. Then, I didn't want to mention it right away, but let's answer that, too. With regard to litigation costs and the costs of the postponement of a particular debate, most likely the one seeking the exemption unwarrantedly, it will pay, on this and on that basis, all the costs of the litigation process, because it is probably in the case and it is bad standing, and it is trying in some way to postpone the obligation. Otherwise, on the case of practices in Germany, I would very much like to get a concrete example if, before some court in Germany, a certain party had asked for an exemption, not only by acting judge or council members, but also by the president of the court and the president of the second court and the president of the third court, not by telling the entire hierarchy of the court in Germany. Let's see that, if that's the case, I'll congratulate you on your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60255	It was used minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MPs Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Nikola Krpiš and Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 77th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must cheer you up and tell you that the interest of the Serbian public, professional and general, is much greater than what we are discussing in this House. The average presence of MPs supporting your government during today was between five and ten, not to exaggerate, you could have...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60257	People's MP, please respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and do not violate the provisions which oblige you to follow other People's MPs. You are neither in a position to count nor qualify any other MPs on the basis of your presence or absence. You may reason with their views your arguments, but I ask you to refrain from insulting and violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60258	What makes our public extremely interested in today’s agenda? First, due to the length of the litigation process itself, the criminal or any other procedure. On the other hand, you know well that recently, as you point out, the reform of the judiciary in Serbia has been carried out successfully, waiting for the court's decisions over two years. On the third hand, for many years, there has been a waiting execution of judicial judgments. These are the reasons why our public is very interested, what reforms in the judiciary will be and what laws we are making. If you want to know if the reform is going in the right direction, whether the laws you adopt and accept here are good, talk to lawyers who are not MPs, talk to the judges, talk to the parties that appear before the court. I really want to point out a positive example of my colleagues, Mikovic and Judge Ljiljana Sicic. She's probably not the only judge who's done it, there's more. We don't have to hesitate to make positive examples here, but I guess tomorrow, when we're not MPs, we'll be re-legislating. This law is not passed for a short period. The reason for this law ultimately states that you no longer have any obligations in relation to the EU. Some of the provisions of the directive will be applied directly and there is no need to agree. If that's the case, let's have one law on litigation that, and when we're no longer Members of Parliament, another time to use it. As far as the exemption is concerned, what the most time and talk about in this House is concerned, let's make such a situation so that the party in the process does not wish an exception but also does not file such demands. What do they do that for? Because of several of these examples that I have cited: the process takes a long time, the decision is long awaited. I've seen one show, I'm not going to name specific names, but they expect citizens to solve the problem. In the vicinity of Požerevac, a agricultural producer, who dealt with this hero, remains a man who has a slaughter of 50,000 euros, not only to him, but about 50 other co-operatives. There's a legal verdict, there's a slaughterhouse, but he's teamed up with his son, passed on to him by some company, a limited-response company. Then what can this man do? They expect solutions from cheated agricultural producers, because some of the buyers, who appeared in their homes, did not pay them off and the procedure takes a long time. There was a recent procedure in Machva about four, five years in connection with the purchase of pigs, which had not been paid. We expect to get rid of this so quickly. That's what we need to talk about, not only do we have colleagues who support this law, and that's not controversial, it's your right, I don't want to call anyone, but I expect us to talk about those problems that, when we get out of here, when you pass this law, won't solve these relationships. Article 77 speaks of a legal representative. Just to remind ourselves that the parties to the proceedings are prosecutors and the defendants and that the party can be any natural or legal person, that in certain cases the public prosecutor can also be a party to the proceedings and that they can be some organisations that do not have legal personality status. It's all meant for this law. This article is too high in one part of it, because there is simply no need for such a thing. Legal faces have both party and litigation skills. They cannot appear in court because of their collectiveity and therefore it is necessary to be a purely natural person and to represent the interests of the legal person and to speak for him. There is no need for what you said: "The legal person's representative in the proceedings is a person who is listed in the relevant register", there should be a point, "and it is specified by special regulations, by general acts of the legal person or by the court's decision". We suggest that it be chosen, because the natural person representing the legal person when it appears, it brings him evidence from the Agency for Business Registers, that it has the authority to represent it. It can be constitutional, be corporate, be an organ representative. Of course, the court must also take care of whether the person representing the legal person had the opportunity to do so. If not and did not take account of the official duty, here are good reasons for this decision to be killed in front of the second-degree bodies, because it is a procedural assumption of such a thing. I think this amendment will only improve the state of affairs, define this member, do not interfere with your concept. It would be good to accept this amendment. There's been a lot of talk about the positive sides of this bill. A colleague, Jojic, pointed out the provision of a member of the 10th, who in a good way solved it, I would like to call on the judges' obligations. Dismissing from earlier law on litigation, actually valid, was carried out by about 13 general principles. We can only recognize a few principles in this law of litigation. This will certainly be a major problem when judges need to decide some things, when some contracts are written. When a man wants to write a contract that will later come under the influence of this law, he sees it regulated by law, whether he has problems or not. He wants in a clear and simple way to make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60259	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60260	The legal person's provision is very important, particularly in terms of economic, financial, organisational and technological consolidation of legal persons, which took place after the adoption of the Privatisation Act and other accompanying laws which entered into certain reforms in legal functioning and business. It is important to stress here that in practice today we have many types of legal representatives, starting with legal entities who have entered into the process of consolidation, restructuring and their form of MPs, then, companies that have come out of privatization by terminating the contract, we have various forms of representation of companies that are in bankruptcy, etc. What's the point? The bottom line is one problem I encountered today on the Committee on Industry, where I chaired, where 41 companies were present in the restructuring process. Almost everyone pointed out their problem. It must be known to you, because they were with you at the Ministry of Justice, where they highlighted to the Secretary of State the problem that is acute, which will open a valve that is undesirable in our society, which will lead to the blockade of businesses and the disabling of normal work and business. What exactly is this about? They asked me to mediate a deal between the Ministry and the Industry Committee, because this is very acute and can lead to a blockade of the entire company's restructuring system as of Monday. Just to point out, it's about 120 companies. If we add to this private companies that have the same problems, it is slightly less than 100,000 employees only in the metal industry. It'll cause a lot of trouble. I'm going to point out the problem very briefly and concisely, where I see your ability to help with this dispute. It's about Article 20g of the Privatisation Act, which says, "From the day of the decision on restructuring"...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60261	People's MP, please on the agenda. The privatisation law is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60262	It's a particular question of representing legal persons, of those who represent those legal persons...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60263	People's MP, as carefully as I listen to and ask for an argument about your agenda. This is unacceptable. So I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60264	It's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60265	She knew what it was about. It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because what you want to connect cannot be connected to what is currently under investigation, and this is the amendment of the MP Sreta Perić. Please try to explain what you want to say during the session of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60266	Very soon, then. The privatisation law is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60267	National MP, the Privatisation Act is not on the agenda, search in particular
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60268	No, but it's tied up. You have to understand me is about a decision by a cassation court, a higher court of cassation, one legal opinion that allows companies to collect certain funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60269	National MP, this is an abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or of the agenda or I have no choice but to punish you, because you do not want to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60270	I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice to see us for a meeting. We'll direct...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60271	Yet this is, People's Parliament, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw out a mocking procedure that binds us all. If you want to have a meeting with the minister of justice, then make a meeting with the minister of justice. If you want to solve the problem of employees and problems in the Privatisation Act, then this session is neither the place nor the time. So please about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60273	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60274	Article 81. The draft law on litigation is provided for by the court to appoint a temporary representative if, in the first instance, the appointment of a legal representative to the defendant would take a long time, resulting in adverse consequences per party. That's where you list five points under which conditions it happens. With this amendment, I would suggest adding point six to point 2 of point 2 - if the legal person does not have a representative. In practice, there are cases that the legal person does not have a legal representative. For example, a residential building does not have a president of the household congregation who is the legal representative of the household congregation, and it is a legal person. In the light of the draft law, you state that amendments have been made in this chapter. As a result of the fact that there were in practice problems concerning the demarcation of a legal representative and legal representative and that the concept of legal representative in Article 77 was precisely defined, which was now subject to the debate of the draft law. This is the person entered in the relevant register, specific rules, general legal act of the person or court decision, etc. You have explained why you do not accept this amendment and wrote that a person who has acquired the property of a legal person must be entered in the relevant register and at the same time register their legal representative. Also, if there is a change in the legal representative, the registered representative shall be considered a legal representative of the company until the new representative is registered. Therefore, there cannot be a situation where the legal person does not have a legal representative, and the amendment of the amendment is unnecessary and excessive. That's what you said in your explanation for not accepting the amendment. This particular example that I've just said in explaining this amendment is the case that a legal person, can happen to a vacuum, there's no legal representative. This amendment therefore completes the provisions of Article 2(2) of this Article.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60275	It's been used 15 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The 83rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic, submitted the 85 amendments together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 85th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Proposer only wanted to speed up the case itself before the court, it is not clear at all this formulation of Article 85. A bill of law why only a small volume has been accepted by one of our colleague's amendments. Otherwise, I think this is about a classic abuse of people who work at the ministry. No one can convince me anymore that that's not the case. We even have the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, a law that should prevent conflict of interest, and even in the Constitution we have a solution to conflicts of interest, etc. But I think the law needs to be complemented, which is that the Justice Department can't have owners and law offices or lawyers working. Maybe they could be ministers in another ministry but they can't work to be officials, or even ministers at the Justice Ministry because they have a conflict of interest. And you can see that in article 85. Article 85 says that anyone, "party can take over the shop in a personal or through a power of attorney who needs to be a lawyer". Why does he have to be a lawyer? Because you're harmonising with Article 67. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I will read it again. "Anyone under the terms of a certain law is guaranteed the right to legal aid, guaranteed the right to legal aid," but the legal service is not legal aid, but the service charged. And we need to clear that up already. As far as you were prepared to go. You allow a party to represent itself, even an amendment accepted that legal persons who have an employee with a legal trial may represent that legal person in a criminal proceedings. But you didn't give up attitude two, which is that the complaint can only be written by a lawyer. And that provision remained in the law. Now, there's gonna be some lawyer running the whole case before the court and then he's gonna take all the files to a fellow lawyer who's gonna write a complaint. Well, it won't be like that. He'll write it, and the lawyer will stamp it and sign it. Or we talked about what if the party is a doctor of law science and a professor at the university, so that lawyer might have passed a judicial exam and he can't write a complaint, but he'll have to put the stamp and sign in front of him again and take the money. Although if a doctor were to write a complaint, a lawyer should pay because he probably learned some kind of lesson. That's why we're against it, and that's why we've submitted one of these amendments. So, the point is, a person who doesn't have the means to pay for a lawyer can't file a complaint in the process, that's nonsense, he'll lose the dispute, his deadlines will pass, and you keep on holding on to it. Let me understand when it comes to reviewing the process, it needs some and judicial experience from that area. I understand that he has to be a lawyer then, but from regular procedures when it comes to regular legal medications, will you, as proposings, let someone lose their case because he didn't press charges, because he's sued and he doesn't have the money to get a job for lawyers. I don't see, nothing else, no party, no lawyer, can take care of the party as much as the party can about itself anymore. And that's the problem, with this solution, I don't think it's going to be good for the law itself. I don't think that's going to be good for the litigation itself. I think we're going to have a lot of judgments that are going to be legal and then later, with who knows what fates they've returned to their original state of affairs, if someone does, just because the parties couldn't pay for a legal representative, or a lawyer. So be sure that the Serbian Progressive Party in voting day, due to three or four such provisions, will not support the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60277	Three minutes and 10 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. National MPs Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Nikola Krpić and Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted together to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 89th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60278	As regards this Article 101(1), I suggest that after the word "return the submission" to add the words, I agree that the submission is returned and that is fine, but I suggest that it return "together with a solution in which the necessary corrections and additions are taxed". Madam Minister, you know where the problem is. The problem is if the submission was filed by an unskilled party. He doesn't have the money to pay for a lawyer, he wants to file a lawsuit or he wrote a submission, but he doesn't have the money to pay for the lawyer's service. Then it needs to be resolved, it costs nothing, it just improves the text of the law and strengthens the obligation of whoever submitted. This means that this solution must be taxed on which all amendments and additions are to be made by the party. Then there won't be a retrial to bring the court into proceedings, to return it, reject it, and give him the right to appeal, etc. So nothing costs, this won't hurt, which says the one on TV, which doesn't hurt can use. Please, this is effective and useful only because of parties that were unable to pay the services of lawyers and do not know, if it is not written, what needs to be corrected and completed, will not know and may happen because of this and give up the case and the proceedings, because they will not be able to pay the services, because they will be scared if they have to pay and taxes afterwards and you know it well. I think you understand this well, and please, adopt this amendment, have adopted some of our amendments, but this is an effective amendment, which is good and I suggest, this can only be, this attitude first to strengthen, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60279	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and as with all other amendments, it will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 101. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60280	I believe that in the voting day, we should all support the amendment proposed by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and I have just insisted that the Committee on Justice and Administration consider the possibility of submitting such an amendment. The point is that Article 101(7) should be deleted. It is defined in recital 5 that the submission on behalf of the party, if submitted by the power of attorney, i.e. public defender and public prosecutor, is incomprehensible and incomplete, the court will reject it. It's undeniable. Article 6 says - if submissions or contributions are not submitted in sufficient numbers, the court will multiply them on the cost of the party that missed the commitment. That's useful. In Section 7, we have the exclusive of the position of the 6th member, if the party is represented by the power of attorney, the court will reject it. Where are we in trouble? The party can do whatever it can and its proxies. The party can file a complaint in person. One minute she had a power of attorney, no power of attorney canceled, but the party personally filed a complaint. There are four parties to the opposition and the court and it submits a complaint in five copies, for the opposite party and for the court, but the contributions are delivered in four copies, not five copies. In this situation, the appeal is dismissed, it can be a major dispute, it can be of vital interest to the party and thus a different position is established for a party that does not have the power of attorney or that has itself taken a particular action. I'm also speaking an additional argument against the board's argument given in the written material here for all the participants on the tide. In any case, I find it useful in Article 101 to delete Section 7, for the reasons that the board itself has concluded. It shall not contribute to the protection of the interests of the parties in the proceedings, from the independent conduct of the proxies, thereby bringing the party represented by the power of attorney and the party not represented by the power of attorney. I don't see what's wrong with that, in the case of a party's cost slip, to copy a particular contribution that may not have been delivered to the court. I think it contributes to better protection of participants in the process, and I suggest that the ministry, or government, accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60281	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister of justice, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60282	Just for a little while, since this is an amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration which has been tabled today and has not become an integral part of this bill, and certainly by the day of voting, we will carry out consultations and agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60283	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60284	Madam Minister, you see, I would not want to leave with the impression that you accept the amendment, if from the ruling coalition, the amendment is submitted by the MP and his amendment, which you should never respect. This, first of all, is resuscitating the procedure. When an attorney is involved in a lawsuit, there's nothing more to talk about, because you've agreed in the whole procedure and in the experience, that there were shortages. In the future, lawyers should make more sure that the case ends rationally and in time, and not now, it is very important for you in one part to rush the procedure and respect the interests of the parties and here, when the greatest responsibility is, when it comes to submissions and when it comes to the hired authority, to the highest level, to the highest degree of responsibility, you have to place lawyers. Now, a lawyer puts together a submission and it's not neat and you're giving it back to him. No, with that practice to stop. We are in favour of breaking up once with the practice that went to harm and making this procedure more effective. I agree if it's a non-scientist party, who didn't have the authority to do it, but when he wrote a lawyer, he stamped it, and first of all, it's part of the legal system, it's not a kung fu store anymore. Under the constitution, lawyers must respect both their level and their degree of responsibility, too, must be present in the law. That's why it's no good now if someone's being treated like this, to someone, and to even the position of a party of ignorance with a lawyer. I'm a lawyer, my colleague Mikovic is a lawyer, and he knows very well that in any case, responsibility must be given to a lawyer. If the court pays him back, or if the party comes after getting a solution to the lawyer and shows, I have that and that problem, I've got the solution, I've filed a lawsuit, I've been brought back and I've got the solution, I've given me a deadline to get the court's request to handle the motion, I've got no, we've got the stamp, we've got the goodbye, there's nothing more to talk about this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60285	Time was used for representatives of the parliamentary group and another minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60286	I have to say, in Section 7, it's not just the submissions of the power of attorney, it's all about submissions and approaches that can be done at all. So it doesn't stand what's said. In any event, as regards the initial act, the obligation remains to, if the procuring authority submits such a submission, that such submission, if incomplete or incomprehensible, is rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60287	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 108th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 117th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. That the line wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60288	The President-in-Office, in this amendment, we intervened on the provision of Article 118 concerning the minutes. All those involved in the litigation process know how important the records are and how important they can create problems if they are not done unanimously during the proceedings, carried out by process actions and different types of objections to the minutes can cause certain problems. We have referred to the fact that there is a possibility of a tone record and its conversion afterwards into a record that becomes an official history of events in the case itself. There were certain problems just within that time limit when the tone record became a written record. We felt, if the minutes were made by means of a tone and optical recording device, that the court was obliged to deliver one copy of that record after the hearing was completed to the parties, if they so requested. Of course, it can cause certain costs for the court, but it can certainly prevent or predispose possible problems in case of more serious objections to the record. Of course, we don't want to doubt the beginning of the court, but if the party has no ability to compare the tone record with the record it receives, which is made up of the tone record, why it must be convinced that it is faithfully transmitted to the written record. Although it may present the costs for the court itself, we believe that it is necessary for the party itself to make a note of the tone after it has been made as one thing which is at that moment the credibility of what was happening at the moment of that procedural action. It will remove any doubt as to whether the record that was subsequently made up is credible in the tone record. At the end of the line, the party has a chance to compare it. Then it is said that the party can object and see the objection. The party when it gets the tone record has no right... What right does she have to see and object? There isn't any at the moment. It's only when he gets a written record based on that tone record. This is a bit of a complicated thing, but it can create major problems in the process and different ways of stalling when objecting to the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60289	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's time. The 119th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the 128th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 130th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60290	Mrs. Malovic, I don't think this was really necessary. We have analyzed the real effects of this solution, so that the parties can direct and timely refer submissions to each other. We absolutely don't see what the effect of that is in terms of saving time in the process. It can only cause additional problems, so that the court can simply be cut off from that entire stream. We agree that the court should play a different role, the role of an observer in a litigation procedure because these interests of the parties are dominant in relation to the criminal proceedings themselves, but it is still safer, more concrete and clearer that the submission parties refer to each other through court. This can create certain problems and abuses. It would be a long time to analyze these possible problems here. We believe that this absolutely does not stand, the existence of one such member of 130. I'm saying, we haven't heard the explanation of the effects. We'd like to know what you get if you look at the whole of the law with one solution like this. The parties shall submit submissions and at the same time inform the court that they have sent each other submissions. Isn't it simpler that the whole procedure goes, surrenders to the court's office, the court delivers it to another party? I think it's much more effective and faster this whole process is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60291	Members of the 136th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60292	When it comes to Article 136(2), it should be deleted. As foreseen in the law – the notion of an adult member of the family household to whom, as proposed, can be handed down in writing is so problematic in practice, which can lead to unscrupulous adverse consequences for this process and the right of parties, i.e. unnecessary delay in proceedings. This is especially when done via mail where suppliers are often not professionals, unlike court suppliers. It's not even an adult's idea, whether it's a full-time person or not. We also suggest that there may be a series of problems in some families. They're not good family relations. A tenant can be found in the apartment, he can be a guest, he can be a relative who is not a member of the family household, who often doesn't even know what he's taking from the delivery company. Finally, there can be more family households in one apartment. It's a case in big cities. The amendment prevents a number of abuses that can go to harm and speed and end proceedings and the exercise of party rights, which is also a matter of public interest. That's why, Mrs. Malovic, this should be deleted because it doesn't get anything, only there can be a delay in the procedure, not an acceleration. I mean, in a lot of things, if you miss, we're going to get to a law that doesn't give such speed and rush, but it's even going to hurt the process. Pay attention to cases like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-16-0.u60293	Before continuing our work on the basis of Article 90, I would like to inform the National Assembly that materials and proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been delivered to the Assembly, which will be forwarded or already in the MP groups in the National Assembly, but I think it is important that I inform you in direct contact. On the basis of Article 90, I would like to inform you that the Government has submitted to the National Assembly that the Public Property Act is adopted by an urgent procedure, that the Government has sent this proposal for the adoption of an emergency law and for a proposal for a law on the return of seized property and damages, as if the Government had the same proposal for the proposed law to be adopted after an urgent procedure also referred to the amendment and supplementation of the Return Act, i.e. the restoration of property to churches and religious communities. I am also informing you, and you have been delivered to parliamentary clubs tonight, regularly by the Rules of Procedure, as prescribed by the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, on the basis of Article 106(3). Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 248. The National Assembly's Rules of Procedure at the government's request to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly called on the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 for Tuesday, September 20th, 2011 starting at 10.00 p.m. In addition to the proposal for a call, the Government also submitted the agenda under Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that, in a request submitted by the Government for holding an extraordinary session, on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly called the 13th Extraordinary Session, are: the 1st item of the agenda Proposal for a Law on Public Property, the 2nd item of the Agenda Proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Property to Churches and Religious Communities. Given that we have worked today on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and it is 18.00 hours for today we are finishing work and continue work on Monday 19 September by continuing the search in particular, i.e. by discussing amendments to the draft Code on Prosecution Procedure. The amendment to continue the work is an amendment to Article 136, which was submitted to the same text by MP Petar Jojic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. National MP Petar Jojic used his right, but they have the right to speak to other applicants, so with a review of the amendment on Monday (September 19th) at 10.00 hours, we continue our work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that the session is attended by 85 MPs, and that the number of MPs registered in the electronic voting system should be determined, please insert your MP cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs have inserted their cards, and another number of MPs are present in the hall and that there are a Rules of Procedure established conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Milos Radulović and Zika Gojkovic. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly Chairman, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the proposing representative, Snezana Malovic, justice ministers, called for the presence of Jovan Ćosic, head of the justice department and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the group at the justice ministry. We will continue the search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE PARENT PROCEDURE BEFORE we move on to a review of the amendments on the agenda, I remind the MPs of the time available to the presidents, i.e. parliamentary groups: The United Pensioners Party - PUPS has the total time available for both the representative and the group; the Manjina parliamentary group has 11 minutes available for the president and the time used by the parliamentary groups; the Nova Serbia parliamentary group has 10 minutes available for the representative and the total time for the parliamentary group; the LDP parliamentary group, has six minutes and 30 seconds for the representatives and 11 minutes for the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of SPS - JS has the total time available for representatives and for the parliamentary group of MPs; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica Group, there are at the disposal of the disposal of one-minute groups and the time group of Members of Members and the group of Members of the group of Members, the group of Members of the group of the group of the group of Members and the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of the group of Members, the group of Members, the group of Members and the group of Members, the group of the group of the group of representatives, the group of representatives, the group of the group of representatives, the group of the group of representatives, the group of the group of representatives, the group of representativess and the group of representatives and the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representativess, the group of representativess, the group of representativess, the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of the group of representatives of the group of the group of the group of the group, representatives of the group, representatives and representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of the representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives and representatives and representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of representatives, representatives of representatives of representatives of the Also, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform you that today's usual one-hour break will be determined when I complete the search in detail - the draft law on litigation, which is currently under way. After the break we will continue the search in particular on the proposal for a business secret law, and we will work after 18.00 hours, and until, if necessary, to complete the search in particular on the last item of the agenda, which I was in the principle of search and search in particular. The other two points of the agenda were a unique search. Members of the 136th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
